<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/12,H04N21/25,H04N21/258,H04N21/418
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHENZHEN SENSETIME TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU YI
XU LI
ZHANG, ZHONGFU
DIAO, YIFAN
XU, MIAORAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62655519
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTENT DATA RECOMMENDATION METHOD AND APPARATUS BASED ON IDENTITY VERIFICATION APPARATUS, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A content data recommendation method based on an identity verification apparatus includes: in response to an operation for identity verification, obtaining a first image of a user, and obtaining attribute information of the user from the first image; sending the attribute information to a content server, so that the content server determines first recommendation content data of the user according to the attribute information; and receiving the first recommendation content data fed back by the content server, and displaying recommendation content corresponding to the first recommendation content data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A content data recommendation method based on an identity verification apparatus, comprising: in response to an operation for identity verification, obtaining a first image of a user, and obtaining attribute information of the user from the first image; sending the attribute information to a content server, so that the content server determines first recommendation content data of the user according to the attribute information; and receiving the first recommendation content data fed back by the content server, and displaying recommendation content corresponding to the first recommendation content data.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: when obtaining the first image of the user, obtaining identity document information of the user; and performing identity verification according to the first image and the identity document information to obtain a result of the identity verification.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the obtaining identity document information of the user comprises: recognizing information in an identity document chip by means of a card reader, and obtaining the identity document information of the user based on the information in the identity document chip.
4. The method according to claim 2, wherein the obtaining identity document information of the user comprises: recognizing image information in an identity document image by means of an Optical Character Recognition (OCR) module, and obtaining the identity document information of the user based on the image information.
5. The method according to claim 2, further comprising: after obtaining the identity document information of the user, extracting identity information of the user from the identity document information; sending the identity information to the content server, so that the content server determines second recommendation content data of the user according to the identity information; and receiving the second recommendation content data fed back by the content server, and displaying recommendation content corresponding to the second recommendation content data.
6. The method according to claim 5, further comprising: in the process of displaying recommendation content corresponding to the second recommendation content data, obtaining a second image of the user, and obtaining facial expression information of the user from the second image; sending the facial expression information and the attribute information to the content server, so that the content server determines third recommendation content data of the user according to the facial expression information and the attribute information; and receiving the third recommendation content data fed back by the content server, and displaying recommendation content corresponding to the third recommendation content data.
7. The method according to claim 5, wherein the identity information comprises at least one of: gender, age, registered residence, birth date, or astrological sign. 25
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the attribute information comprises at least one of: skin color, hairstyle, whether glasses are worn, whether jewelry is worn, gender, age, hair color, or whether makeup is worn.
9. A content data recommendation method based on an identity verification apparatus, comprising: receiving attribute information of a user sent by a terminal device; determining first recommendation content data of the user according to the attribute information; and pushing the first recommendation content data to the terminal device.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the determining first recommendation content data of the user according to the attribute information comprises: matching the attribute information with index information of multiple pieces of recommendation content data separately; obtaining a matching score between the attribute information and the index information of each piece of recommendation content data by calculation based on a matching result; and determining the first recommendation content data according to the matching score.
11. The method according to claim 9, further comprising: after receiving the attribute information of the user sent by the terminal device, receiving identity information of the user sent by the terminal device; determining second recommendation content data of the user according to the identity information; and pushing the second recommendation content data to the terminal device.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the determining second recommendation content data of the user according to the identity information comprises: matching the identity information with index information of multiple pieces of recommendation content data; obtaining a matching score between the identity information and the index information of each piece of recommendation content data by calculation based on a matching result; and determining the second recommendation content data according to the matching score.
13. The method according to claim 11, further comprising: after pushing the second recommendation content data to the terminal device, receiving facial expression information and attribute information of the user sent by the terminal device; determining third recommendation content data of the user according to the facial expression information and the attribute information; and pushing the third recommendation content data to the terminal device.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the determining third recommendation content data of the user according to the facial expression information and the attribute information comprises: determining a type of the third recommendation content data according to the facial expression information; matching the attribute information with index information of multiple pieces of recommendation content data of the determined type; obtaining a matching score between the attribute information and the index information of each piece of recommendation content data of the determined type by calculation based on a matching result; and determining the third recommendation content data according to the matching score.
15. The method according to claim 11, wherein the identity information comprises at least one of: gender, age, registered residence, birth date, or astrological sign.
16. The method according to claim 9, wherein the attribute information comprises at least one of: skin color, hairstyle, whether glasses are worn, whether jewelry is worn, gender, age, hair color, or whether makeup is worn.
17. A content data recommendation apparatus based on an identity verification apparatus, comprising: a memory storing processor-executable instructions; and a processor arranged to execute the stored processor-executable instructions to perform steps of: in response to an operation for identity verification, obtaining a first image of a user, and obtain attribute information of the user from the first image; sending the attribute information obtained by the first obtaining module to a content server, so that the content server determines first recommendation content data of the user according to the attribute information; and receiving the first recommendation content data fed back by the content server, and displaying recommendation content corresponding to the first recommendation content data.
18. The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the processor arranged to execute the stored processor-executable instructions to further perform steps of: when obtaining the first image of the user, obtaining identity document information of the user; and performing identity verification according to the first image and the identity document information to obtain a result of the identity verification.
19. A content data recommendation apparatus based on an identity verification apparatus, comprising: a memory storing processor-executable instructions; and a processor arranged to execute the stored processor-executable instructions to perform steps of the method according to claim 9.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon computer program instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to implement steps of the content data recommendation method based on an identity verification apparatus according to claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
