<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-01-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J15/00,B25J19/06,B25J3/04,B25J9/12,H02K1/17,H02K11/21,H02K21/04,H02K21/22,H02K26/00,H02K41/035
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SYSTEMS, MACHINES, AUTOMATION COMPONENTS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
OKADA NAOYUKI
GLADOCH, ANDREW
VU, TOAN M.
NEFF, EDWARD, A.
HUANG, DAVID D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61559610
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DIRECT DRIVE BRUSHLESS MOTOR FOR ROBOTIC FINGER
</title>

<abstract>
A direct drive brushless motor including a plurality of rotational components and a plurality of non-rotational components. Ones of the pluralities of rotational and non-rotational components form a dual magnetic circuit. The plurality of rotational components includes a center rotation shaft circumscribed by a plurality of coils and a coil termination plate configured to support the plurality of coils. The plurality of non-rotational components includes a plurality of outer magnets arranged around the plurality of coils in a Halbach configuration and a plurality of inner magnets arranged in a Halbach configuration between the coils and the shaft. A flex cable having one or more leads provides electrical current to the plurality of coils without the use of brushes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A direct drive brushless motor, comprising: a plurality of rotational components including a center rotation shaft circumscribed by a plurality of coils and a coil termination plate configured to support the plurality of coils wherein the center rotation shaft is configured to rotate about a longitudinal axis and wherein each of the plurality of coils are substantially rectangular and defined by a first dimension parallel to the longitudinal axis and a second dimension transverse to the first dimension wherein the first dimension is longer than the second dimension; a plurality of non-rotational components including a plurality of inner magnets and a plurality of outer magnets wherein the plurality of outer magnets are positioned around the plurality of coils; a flex cable having a first end and a second end, and including a plurality of electrically conductive wires for providing electrical current to one or more of the plurality of coils without the use of brushes; a dual magnetic circuit formed from ones of the plurality rotational components and ones of the plurality non-rotational components, the dual magnetic circuit including an outer circuit and an inner circuit wherein the outer circuit includes at least the plurality of outer magnets and the plurality of coils and wherein the inner circuit includes at least the plurality of coils and the plurality of inner magnets; and one or more rotation-limiting elements configured to limit rotation of the rotational components to within a desired range.
2. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 1 further including an electrical connector coupled to the coil termination plate wherein the electrical connector is attached to the plurality of electrically conductive wires and to one or more of the plurality of coils.
3. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 1 further including a first electrical connector coupled to the coil termination plate wherein the first electrical connector is attached to the plurality of electrically conductive wires at the first end of the flex cable and to one or more of the plurality of coils.
4. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 3 further including a second electrical connector connected to the plurality of electrically conductive wires at the second end of the flex cable, the second electrical connector being attached to a base surface.
5. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 1 wherein the plurality of non-rotational components further includes a motor housing surrounding the plurality of outer magnets.
6. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 1 wherein the plurality of inner magnets are arranged as a first Halbach cylinder.
7. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 6 wherein the plurality of outer magnets are arranged as a second Halbach cylinder and wherein the plurality of coils are interposed between the plurality of inner magnets and the plurality of outer magnets.
8. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 6 wherein the plurality of non-rotational components further includes a cylindrical sleeve surrounded by a steel core wherein the cylindrical sleeve is dimensioned to circumscribe the center rotation shaft.
9. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 7 wherein the plurality of inner magnets surround the steel core.
10. A direct drive brushless motor, comprising: a plurality of outer magnets arranged as a first Halbach cylinder; a coil assembly including a plurality of rectangular coils surrounded by the plurality of outer magnets wherein the coil assembly is disposed to rotate relative to the plurality of outer magnets; a coil termination plate configured to support the plurality of coils, a flex cable having a first end and a second end, the flex cable including a plurality of electrically conductive wires for providing electrical current to one or more of the plurality of coils without the use of brushes; a first electrical connector coupled to the coil termination plate wherein the first electrical connector is attached to the plurality of electrically conductive wires at the first end of the flex cable and to one or more of the plurality of coils; a plurality of inner magnets arranged as a second Halbach cylinder and surrounded by the plurality of coils; a core element surrounded by the plurality of inner magnets; a center rotation shaft positioned within an interior space circumscribed by the core element; and one or more rotation-limiting elements configured to limit rotation of the rotational components to within a desired range.
11. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 10 further comprising: a motor housing wherein the plurality of outer magnets are secured to an inner surface of the motor housing; and a dual magnetic circuit wherein the dual magnetic circuit includes an outer circuit and an inner circuit, the outer circuit including at least the motor housing, the plurality of outer magnets and the plurality of coils and the inner circuit including at least the plurality of coils and the center rotation shaft.
12. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 10 further including a flex cable for providing the external source of current wherein at least a portion of the flex cable is enclosed by the motor housing.
13. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 10 further including a coil termination plate configured to support the plurality of coils, the flex cable being mechanically coupled to the coil termination plate.
14. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 13 further including an electrical connector attached to the coil termination plate and to one or more leads of the flex cable.
15. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 10 further including a cylindrical sleeve surrounded by the core element wherein the cylindrical sleeve is dimensioned to circumscribe the center rotation shaft.
16. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 10 wherein the plurality of coils are arranged to form an annular structure.
17. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 16 further including a back plate configured with a plurality of circular channels wherein at least one of the plurality of circular channels receives the annular structure.
18. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 1 wherein the plurality of coils are arranged to form an annular structure.
19. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 18 further including a back plate configured with a plurality of circular channels wherein at least one of the plurality of circular channels receives the annular structure.
20. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 10 further including: a coil termination plate configured to support the plurality of coils wherein the coil termination plate rotates during operation of the direct drive brushless motor; an electrical connector coupled to the coil termination plate, the electrical connector being electrically connected to one or more of the plurality of coils; and a flex cable having one or more leads electrically connected to the electrical connector.
21. A direct drive brushless motor, comprising: a plurality of rotational components including a center rotation shaft circumscribed by a plurality of coils and a coil termination plate configured to support the plurality of coils; a plurality of non-rotational components including a plurality of inner magnets and a plurality of outer magnets wherein the plurality of outer magnets are positioned around the plurality of coils; a flex cable having one or more leads for providing electrical current to one or more of the plurality of coils without the use of brushes, wherein the flex cable includes a first end, a second end and an annular portion between the first end and the second end, and a set of electrically conductive wires; a dual magnetic circuit formed from ones of the plurality rotational components and ones of the plurality non-rotational components, the dual magnetic circuit including an outer circuit and an inner circuit wherein the outer circuit includes at least the plurality of outer magnets and the plurality of coils and wherein the inner circuit includes at least the plurality of coils and the plurality of inner magnets; a controller configured to drive the plurality of coils through sinusoidal commutation using a direct-quadrature control process such that each coil phase is energized by a continuous sinusoidal current included in the electrical current, the controller being responsive to at least a first current flowing in a first of the plurality of coils, a second current flowing in a second of the plurality of coils and an angular position of one of the plurality of rotational components; and one or more rotation-limiting elements configured to limit rotation of the rotational components to within a desired range.
22. The direct drive brushless motor of claim 21 further including an electrical connector coupled to the coil termination plate wherein the electrical connector is attached to the one or more leads of the flex cable and to one or more of the plurality of coils, wherein the electrical connector comprises a first electrical connector.
</claims>
</document>
