<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROLLS-ROYCE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CONDUIT, BRYCE D
HALL, CHRISTOPHER R
MILLER, ROBERT J.
TAYLOR, JAMES V
HILLEL, Malcolm L
DICKENS, Anthony M
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67432266
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER-IMPLEMENTED METHODS FOR TRAINING A MACHINE LEARNING ALGORITHM
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method comprising: controlling input of at least a portion of a first training data set into a first machine learning algorithm, the first training data set including: data quantifying damage to a first compressor; and data quantifying a first operating parameter of the first compressor; executing the first machine learning algorithm; receiving data quantifying the first operating parameter as an output of the first machine learning algorithm; and training the first machine learning algorithm using: the received data output from the first machine learning algorithm; and data quantifying the first operating parameter of the first compressor, the trained first machine learning algorithm being configured to enable determination of operability of a second compressor of a gas turbine engine.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: controlling input of at least a portion of a first training data set into a first machine learning algorithm, the first training data set including: data quantifying damage to a first compressor; and data quantifying a first operating parameter of the first compressor; receiving data quantifying the first operating parameter as an output of the first machine learning algorithm; and training the first machine learning algorithm using: the received data output from the first machine learning algorithm; and data quantifying the first operating parameter of the first compressor, the trained first machine learning algorithm being configured to enable determination of operability of a second compressor of a gas turbine engine.
2. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: receiving data quantifying damage received by one or more compressor blades of the first compressor; and generating the data quantifying damage received by the first compressor using the received data quantifying damage received by one or more compressor blades, and a damage parameter.
3. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 2, wherein generating the data quantifying damage received by the first compressor comprises convoluting the received data quantifying damage received by one or more compressor blades of the first compressor with the damage parameter.
4. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the damage parameter is an amount of damage to a portion of the first compressor.
5. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the damage parameter is one or more separations between portions of the first compressor.
6. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the damage parameter is a gradient of damage across at least a portion of the first compressor.
7. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the damage parameter is a number of damaged portions of the first compressor.
8. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 2, wherein generating the data quantifying damage received by the first compressor comprises using the received data quantifying damage received by one or more compressor blades, and a plurality of damage parameters.
9. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 8, wherein generating the data quantifying damage received by the first compressor comprises convoluting the received data quantifying damage received by one or more compressor blades of the first compressor with each damage parameter of the plurality of damage parameters.
10. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 8, further comprising: determining importance of at least a subset of the plurality of damage parameters; and where a first damage parameter has an importance that does not meet a predetermined criterion, re-generating the data quantifying damage received by the first compressor without using the first damage parameter.
11. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 1, wherein generating the data quantifying damage received by the first compressor comprises providing the received data quantifying damage received by one or more compressor blades of the first compressor as an input to an algorithm.
12. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the algorithm comprises one or more Fourier-related transforms.
13. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the one or more Fourier-related transforms comprise a Hadamard transform.
14. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 1, wherein training the first machine learning algorithm comprises performing optimization using: the received data output from the first machine learning algorithm; and data quantifying the first operating parameter of the first compressor.
15. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the block of performing optimization includes performing stochastic optimization.
16. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first machine learning algorithm is a first artificial neural network, and wherein training the first machine learning algorithm includes generating a plurality of first artificial neural networks each having a different number of neurons, and performing cross validation to select the first artificial neural network having the lowest error.
17. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: controlling input of at least a portion of a second training data set into a second machine learning algorithm, the second training data set including: data quantifying damage to a first compressor; and data quantifying a second operating parameter of the first compressor; receiving data quantifying the second operating parameter of the first compressor as an output of the second machine learning algorithm; and training the second machine learning algorithm using: the received data output from the second machine learning algorithm; and data quantifying the second operating parameter of the first compressor, the trained second machine learning algorithm configured to enable determination of operability of the second compressor of the gas turbine engine.
18. A computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 17, wherein the first operating parameter is stalling throttle coefficient and the second operating parameter is pressure rise characteristic.
19. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising computer readable instructions that, when read by a computer, cause performance of the computer-implemented method as claimed in claim 1.
20. An apparatus comprising: a controller configured to perform the computer-implemented method of claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
