<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B65G69/28,G06Q10/00,H04L12/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ASSA ABLOY ENTRANCE SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAY, DARYL
HOOFARD, RICHARD, K.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68696400
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTOMATED DOCK STATION SERVICING
</title>

<abstract>
An automatic dock servicing system can monitor status of dock stations and/or dock station components, analyze the status to determine whether it satisfies a service condition for one or more service actions and, when service conditions are satisfied, cause the corresponding service actions to be performed. In some embodiments, a control panel can track a number of trailer loading/unloading cycles at the dock station. When the number of cycles reaches a threshold for performing a service on the dock station, the control panel can automatically initiate the service action. Some service actions that can be initiated by placing a maintenance or part request, sending control signals to a control panel or to dock station components, and/or sending messages or providing remote controls to other personnel.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A central processing center for automating dock station servicing, the central processing center comprising: a transceiver configured to receive status data associated with one or more dock station components; one or more processors; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the central processing center to perform operations including— determining whether the status data satisfies one or more service conditions, wherein determining whether the status data satisfies a service condition of the one or more service conditions includes applying a trained model to at least some of the status data, and wherein applying the trained model provides a determination for whether the service condition is satisfied; and when the status data satisfies at least one of the service conditions, causing one or more service actions to be performed.
2. The central processing center of claim 1 wherein the status data includes, for at least one of the dock station components, one or more of: a total number of uses; a number of uses since a service; a total amount of time in use; an amount of time in use since the service; an identification of an equipment fault; or any combination thereof.
3. The central processing center of claim 1 wherein at least some of the status data is generated by a control panel in response to the control panel controlling one or more of the dock station components.
4. The central processing center of claim 1 wherein at least some of the status data is generated based on data gathered by a camera or sensor operably associated with at least one of the dock station components.
5. The central processing center of claim 1 wherein the operations further comprise processing one or more images included in the status data to automatically identify at least a portion of one of the dock station components or a status of the portion of the one of the dock station components.
6. The central processing center of claim 1: wherein at least a portion of the status data traverses part of a Zigbee, Z-wave, Bluetooth, or Thread network; and wherein the network includes multiple dock station component nodes.
7. The central processing center of claim 1: wherein determining whether the status data satisfies the one or more service conditions includes determining that an amount of uses of dock station components, specified in the status data, is at least as large as a maintenance threshold, and wherein the one or more service actions include initiating a maintenance request.
8. The central processing center of claim 1 wherein the trained model was trained by applying training items, each training item including status data labeled with a satisfied or not-satisfied categorization, by: for each particular training item, adjusting one or more aspects of the trained model based on a comparison of (A) output generated by the trained model for the status data of the particular training item to (B) the satisfied or not-satisfied categorization of the particular training item.
9. The central processing center of claim 1 wherein the one or more service actions include one or more of: initiating a maintenance request; initiating a part request; causing a notification to be provided via an application on a mobile device remote from the central processing center; or any combination thereof.
10. The central processing center of claim 9 wherein the one or more service actions include the notification and wherein the notification includes a control to initiate a further action via the mobile device, wherein the further action includes enabling or disabling use of a control panel or at least one of the dock station components.
11. A method for automating dock station servicing, the method comprising: obtaining status data associated with one or more dock station components; comparing the status data to one or more service conditions to determine whether at least one of the service conditions is satisfied by applying a trained model to at least some of the status data; and based on the comparison, causing one or more service actions to be performed.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein the status data includes, for at least one dock station component, one or more of: a total number of uses; a number of uses since a last service; a total amount of time in use; an amount of time in use since the last service; or any combination thereof.
13. The method of claim 11 wherein at least some of the status data is generated based on data gathered by a camera or sensor integrated into at least one of the one or more dock station components.
14. The method of claim 11 wherein the one or more service actions comprise causing a notification to be provided via an application on a mobile device.
15. The method of claim 11 wherein comparing the status data to one or more service conditions includes determining that an amount of uses of dock station components, specified in the status data, is at least as large as a service threshold.
16. (canceled)
17. The method of claim 11 wherein the one or more service actions include one or more of: initiating a maintenance request, initiating a part request, disabling use of a control panel or at least one of the one or more dock station components, or any combination thereof.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by a computing system, cause the computing system to perform operations for automating servicing of a dock station, the operations comprising: identifying that a dock station cycle completed; accessing a component counter; accessing a maintenance threshold; applying an adjustment factor to adjust the maintenance threshold; incrementing the component counter; comparing the incremented component counter to the adjusted maintenance threshold; and based on the comparing, initiating a maintenance request for the dock station.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18 wherein, prior to applying the adjustment factor, the maintenance threshold is a pre-established amount of use for a component of the dock station before the component requires maintenance.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18 wherein initiating the maintenance request includes: identifying one or more other dock stations that have been flagged for having maintenance performed; and causing maintenance to be scheduled for the dock station and each of the one or more other dock stations.
21. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18 wherein the component counter tracks an amount of time a component of the dock station was in use; and wherein an amount the component counter is incremented is based on an amount of time the component of the dock station was in use during the dock station cycle.
22. The method of claim 11 wherein the trained model was trained by applying training items, each training item including status data labeled with a satisfied or not-satisfied categorization, by: for each particular training item, adjusting one or more aspects of the trained model based on a comparison of (A) output generated by the trained model for the status data of the particular training item to (B) the satisfied or not-satisfied categorization of the particular training item.
</claims>
</document>
