<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L13/033,G10L13/047,G10L13/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
NADOLSKI, ADAM FRANCISZEK
MERRITT, THOMAS EDWARD
CHICOTE, ROBERTO BARRA
LATORRE, JAVIER
KLIMKOV, VIACHESLAV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68466462
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTEXTUAL TEXT-TO-SPEECH PROCESSING
</title>

<abstract>
A text-to-speech (TTS) system that is capable of considering characteristics of various portions of text data in order to create continuity between segments of synthesized speech. The system can analyze text portions of a work and create feature vectors including data corresponding to characteristics of the individual portions and/or the overall work. A TTS processing component can then consider feature vector(s) from other portions when performing TTS processing on text of a first portion, thus giving the TTS component some intelligence regarding other portions of the work, which can then result in more continuity between synthesized speech segments.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving text data including a first text portion and a second text portion, the first text portion representing a first plurality of words and the second text portion representing a second plurality of words; processing the first text portion to determine first data corresponding to a representation of the first plurality of words; processing the second text portion to determine second data representing context information corresponding to the second text portion; and performing text-to-speech (TTS) processing using the first data and the second data to determine audio data corresponding to the first text portion.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: determining the first text portion and the second text portion correspond to a first contextual section, wherein the TTS processing uses the second data in response to the first text portion and the second text portion corresponding to the first contextual section.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: determining the first text portion and the second text portion correspond to a first dialogue section, wherein the TTS processing uses the second data in response to the first text portion and the second text portion corresponding to the first dialogue section.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: determining that the first text portion corresponds to a first paragraph; and determining that the second text portion corresponds to a second paragraph contiguous with the first paragraph, wherein the TTS processing uses the second data in response to the second text portion corresponding to the second paragraph contiguous with the first paragraph.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 24, further comprising: determining an indication corresponding to a paragraph break, wherein performing the TTS processing further uses the indication.
26. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: determining the first text portion and the second text portion correspond to a first contextual section; receiving second text data including a third text portion representing a third plurality of words; and determining the third text portion corresponds to a second contextual section different from the first contextual section, wherein the TTS processing does not use a representation of the third text portion.
27. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: determining that a total of the first plurality of words and the second plurality of words exceeds a threshold number of words, wherein the TTS processing uses the second data in response to the total exceeding the threshold number of words.
28. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: determining that the first text portion corresponds to a chapter heading for a first chapter; determining that the second text portion corresponds to a text within the first chapter; and determining an indication corresponding to a chapter heading pause, wherein performing the TTS processing further uses the indication.
29. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: receiving second text data including a third text portion representing a third plurality of words; determining the first text portion, the second text portion, and the third text portion correspond to a first contextual section; and processing the second text data to determine third data representing second context information corresponding to the third text portion, wherein performing the TTS processing further uses the third data.
30. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: determining that a first total of the first plurality of words and the second plurality of words does not exceed a threshold number of words; receiving second text data including a third text portion representing a third plurality of words; determining that a second total of the first plurality of words, the second plurality of words, and the third plurality of words exceeds the threshold number of words; and processing the second text data to determine third data representing second context information corresponding to the third text portion, wherein the TTS processing further uses the third data in response to the second total exceeding the threshold number of words.
31. A system, comprising: at least one processor; at least one memory comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: receive text data including a first text portion and a second text portion, the first text portion representing a first plurality of words and the second text portion representing a second plurality of words; process the first text portion to determine first data corresponding to a representation of the first plurality of words; process the second text portion to determine second data representing context information corresponding to the second text portion; and perform text-to-speech (TTS) processing using the first data and the second data to determine audio data corresponding to the first text portion.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine the first text portion and the second text portion correspond to a first contextual section, wherein the TTS processing uses the second data in response to the first text portion and the second text portion corresponding to the first contextual section.
33. The system of claim 31, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine the first text portion and the second text portion correspond to a first dialogue section, wherein the TTS processing uses the second data in response to the first text portion and the second text portion corresponding to the first dialogue section.
34. The system of claim 31, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine that the first text portion corresponds to a first paragraph; and determine that the second text portion corresponds to a second paragraph contiguous with the first paragraph, wherein the TTS processing uses the second data in response to the second text portion corresponding to the second paragraph contiguous with the first paragraph.
35. The system of claim 34, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine an indication corresponding to a paragraph break, wherein the TTS processing further uses the indication.
36. The system of claim 31, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine the first text portion and the second text portion correspond to a first contextual section; receive second text data including a third text portion representing a third plurality of words; and determine the third text portion corresponds to a second contextual section different from the first contextual section, wherein the TTS processing does not use a representation of the third text portion.
37. The system of claim 31, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine that a total of the first plurality of words and the second plurality of words exceeds a threshold number of words, wherein the TTS processing uses the second data in response to the total exceeding the threshold number of words.
38. The system of claim 31, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine that the first text portion corresponds to a chapter heading for a first chapter; determine that the second text portion corresponds to a text within the first chapter; and determine an indication corresponding to a chapter heading pause, wherein the TTS processing further uses the indication.
39. The system of claim 31, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: receive second text data including a third text portion representing a third plurality of words; determine the first text portion, the second text portion, and the third text portion correspond to a first contextual section; and process the second text data to determine third data representing second context information corresponding to the third text portion, wherein the TTS processing further uses the third data.
40. The system of claim 31, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine that a first total of the first plurality of words and the second plurality of words does not exceed a threshold number of words; receive second text data including a third text portion representing a third plurality of words; determine that a second total of the first plurality of words, the second plurality of words, and the third plurality of words exceeds the threshold number of words; and process the second text data to determine third data representing second context information corresponding to the third text portion, wherein the TTS processing further uses the third data in response to the second total exceeding the threshold number of words.
</claims>
</document>
