<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2011-03-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R31/28,G06F21/73,H01L23/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NOKOMIS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KELLER, III, WALTER J.
GALYARDT, JASON
FREEMAN, STEPHEN DORN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52001513
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PHYSICALLY DETECTING COUNTERFEIT ELECTRONICS
</title>

<abstract>
A system for inspecting or screening electrically powered device includes a signal generator inputting a preselected signal into the electrically powered device. There is also an antenna array positioned at a pre-determined distance above the electrically powered device. Apparatus collects RF energy emitted by the electrically powered device in response to input of said preselected signal. The signature of the collected RF energy is compared with an RF energy signature of a genuine part. The comparison determines one of a genuine or counterfeit condition of the electrically powered device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-53. (canceled)
54. A counterfeit detection system, comprising: an input signal generation source configured to inject a preselected input signal into an electrical device; an antenna positioned, during use, above the electrical device; a receiver coupled to said antenna and configured to collect electromagnetic energy in a radio frequency (RF) spectrum emitted from the electrical device in a response to said preselected input signal being injected thereinto; and a processor configured to determine one of a genuine and a counterfeit condition of the electrical device based on a comparison of an emission signature characteristics of said collected electromagnetic energy in said RF spectrum against baseline emission signature characteristics.
55. A counterfeit detection system, comprising: a test fixture, said text figure configured to receive an electrical device therewithin; an antenna; a receiver coupled to said antenna and configured to collect electromagnetic energy in a radio frequency (RF) spectrum emitted from the electrical device in a response to an input being injected thereinto through said fixture; and a processor configured to determine one of a genuine and a counterfeit condition of the electrical device based on a comparison of an emission signature characteristics of said collected electromagnetic energy in the RF spectrum against baseline emission signature characteristics.
56. The counterfeit detection system of claim 55, wherein the electrical device is at least one of a semiconductor and an integrated circuit, and wherein said fixture comprises a zero insertion force socket.
57. The counterfeit detection system of claim 56, wherein said input is at least one of a power input and an oscillatory input and wherein said zero insertion force socket is preconfigured with said at least one of said power and said oscillatory input.
58. The counterfeit detection system of claim 55, further comprising an input generation source configured to inject said input as an oscillatory signal, into the electrical device through said fixture.
59. The counterfeit detection system of claim 58, wherein said input generation source generates said oscillatory signal with a precision that exceeds 10−8.
60. The counterfeit detection system of claim 58, wherein said input generation source comprises a high precision signal source configured to generate a high precision oscillatory signal for driving at least one of a signal input and a clock input of the electrical device, said high precision signal source is being selected from a group consisting of a temperature compensated Crystal Oscillator (TCXO), a microcomputer compensated Crystal Oscillator (MXCO), an Oven Controlled Crystal Oscillator (OCXO), a small atomic frequency standard oscillator and a Rubidium oscillator (RbXO).
61. The counterfeit detection system of claim 55, wherein said antenna is positioned, during use, above the electrical device.
62. The counterfeit detection system of claim 61, further a comprising a robotic arm and wherein said antenna is integrated into an end of said robotic arm, said antenna being positioned, during use, above the electrical device.
63. The counterfeit detection system of claim 55, wherein said antenna comprises an antenna array positioned at a distance above the electrical device.
64. The counterfeit detection system of claim 63, wherein the electrical device and said antenna array are mounted for a movement relative to one another.
65. The counterfeit detection system of claim 63, wherein said antenna array comprises an integrated Low Noise Amplifier.
66. The counterfeit detection system of claim 63, wherein said antenna array comprises an electronically steered antenna array.
67. The counterfeit detection system of claim 63, wherein said distance is between about one micrometer and about one centimeter.
68. The counterfeit detection system of claim 55, wherein said processor executes at least one of a Harmonic Analysis, a Matched Filter, an Artificial Neural Networks (ANN), a specifically multilayer perception (MLP) feed-forward ANN with back propagation (BP), a Wavelet Decomposition, an Autocorrelation, Spectral Feature Measurements or Statistics, a Clustering and a Phase Detrending.
69. The counterfeit detection system of claim 55, wherein said processor executes at least one of a Discrete Fourier Transform, a Fast Fourier Transform, a Discrete Cosine Transform, a Laplace Transform, a Z Transform, a Star Transform, a Short-Time Fourier Transform, a Cepstrum, an Infinite Impulse Response Filter, a Finite Impulse Response Filter, a Cascaded integrator-comb filter, an Elliptical Filter, a Chebyshev Filter, a Butterworth Filter, and a Bessel Filter.
70. A method for at least one of inspecting and screening at least one of an integrated circuit and a device employing said integrated circuit in order to determine one of a counterfeit condition and a genuine condition thereof, said method comprising the steps of: (a) positioning an antenna in a close proximity to said integrated circuit; (b) injecting a first signal into said integrated circuit; (c) collecting, with said antenna and a receiver coupled to said antenna, a first emission of electromagnetic energy in a radio frequency (RF) spectrum, said first emission radiated by said integrated circuit in response to said first signal injected in step (b); (d) injecting, with said signal generation source, a second signal into said integrated circuit; (e) collecting, with said antenna and said receiver, a second emission of electromagnetic energy in said radio frequency (RF) spectrum, said second emission radiated by said integrated circuit in a response to said second signal injected in step (d); (f) simultaneously generating, with a processor, representative signature characteristics of said first and second emissions; (g) determining, with said processor, a first deviation between said first emission signature characteristics and baseline RF emission signature characteristics for said integrated circuit; (h) determining, with said processor, a second deviation between said second emission signature and said baseline RF emission signature characteristics for said integrated circuit; and (i) detecting, with said processor based on said first and second deviations, said one of said counterfeit condition and said genuine condition.
71. The method of claim 70, wherein one of the steps (b) and (d) comprises the step of injecting a power input signal.
72. The method of claim 70, wherein one of the steps (b) and (d) comprises the step of injecting an oscillatory clock signal.
73. The method of claim 72, the step of injecting an oscillatory clock signal comprises the step of injecting said oscillatory clock signal with a high precision signal frequency oscillation generation source.
</claims>
</document>
