<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/46,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IUNU
</assignee>

<inventors>
KING, MATTHEW CHARLES
SUN, YAJIE
TAKLA, ETHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72236260
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED PLANT DISEASE DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a technique for automatically performing disease detection using image processing. The technique includes receiving, from image capture devices, a first image depicting a first set of plants of a first unit and a second image depicting a second set of plants of a second unit. One or more metrics associated with the first and second sets of the plants are measured based at least on the images. At least one difference in the first and second sets of the plants is detected based at least on differences in the measurement for the one or more metrics associated with the first set of the plants and the second set of the plants. In response to detecting the at least one difference, additional images of the plants are requested from the one or more image capture devices to detect the presence of plant disease.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, from one or more image capture devices, a first image depicting a first set of plants of a first unit and a second image depicting a second set of plants of a second unit; measuring one or more metrics associated with the first set of the plants and the second set of the plants based at least on the first image and the second image, respectively; detecting at least one difference in the first set of the plants of the first unit and the second set of the plants of the second unit based at least on differences in the measurement for the one or more metrics associated with the first set of the plants and the second set of the plants; and in response to detecting the at least one difference in the first set of the plants of the first unit and the second set of the plants of the second unit, requesting additional images of the plants from the one or more image capture devices to detect presence of a plant disease in the first set of the plants or the second set of the plants.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving the additional images of the plants from the one or more image capture devices; measuring the one or more metrics associated with the plants based at least on the additional images, wherein the one or more metrics comprise growth based metrics; generating a growth curve based at least on the growth based metrics associated with the plants; comparing a plant-specific model curve to the growth curve associated with the plants; detecting the presence of the plant disease based at least on at least one difference in the plant-specific model curve and the growth curve; and identifying the plant disease based at least on one or more characteristic patterns depicted in the growth curve.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: recommending at least one course of action to mitigate the identified plant disease.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more metrics are unit metrics.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more metrics are spatial aggregate metrics.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the unit metrics comprise the growth based metrics, the growth based metrics comprising canopy coverage, flower count, flower size, flower clusters, germination count, germination size, and component shape.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 4 wherein the unit metrics comprise color based metrics, the color based metrics comprising canopy histogram, canopy K-means color cluster size, and flower histogram.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the spatial aggregate metrics comprise growth based metrics, the growth based metrics comprising space specific growth homogeneity, space specific flower count homogeneity, space specific flower size homogeneity, space specific flower cluster homogeneity, space specific germination count homogeneity, space specific germination size homogeneity, and space specific germination shape homogeneity.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the spatial aggregate metrics comprise color based metrics, the color based metrics comprising space specific canopy histogram homogeneity, space specific canopy K-means color cluster size homogeneity, and space specific flower color histogram homogeneity.
10. A system, comprising: one or more non-transitory storage mediums configured to provide stored computer-readable instructions, the one or more non-transitory storage mediums coupled to one or more processors, the one or more processors configured to execute the computer-readable instructions to cause the one or more processors to: receive, from one or more image capture devices, a first image depicting a first set of plants of a first unit and a second image depicting a second set of plants of a second unit; measure one or more metrics associated with the first set of the plants and the second set of the plants based at least on the first image and the second image, respectively; detect at least one difference in the first set of the plants of the first unit and the second set of the plants of the second unit based at least on differences in the measurement for the one or more metrics associated with the first set of the plants and the second set of the plants; and in response to detecting the at least one difference in the first set of the plants of the first unit and the second set of the plants of the second unit, request additional images of the plants from the one or more image capture devices to detect presence of a plant disease in the first set of the plants or the second set of the plants.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: receive the additional images of the plants from the one or more image capture devices; measure the one or more metrics associated with the plants based at least on the additional images, wherein the one or more metrics comprise growth based metrics; generate a growth curve based at least on the growth based metrics associated with the plants; compare a plant-specific model curve to the growth curve associated with the plants; detect the presence of the plant disease based at least on at least one difference in the plant-specific model curve and the growth curve; and identify the plant disease based at least on one or more characteristic patterns depicted in the growth curve.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: recommend at least one course of action to mitigate the identified plant disease.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: perform validation analyses to confirm that the plants depicted in the additional images are the same.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine an overall growth rate and a degree of variability in growth rate associated with the plants based at least on the growth based metrics.
15. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions that upon execution cause one or more processors to perform acts comprising: receiving, from one or more image capture devices, a first image depicting a first set of plants of a first unit and a second image depicting a second set of plants of a second unit; measuring one or more metrics associated with the first set of the plants and the second set of the plants based at least on the first image and the second image, respectively; detecting at least one difference in the first set of the plants of the first unit and the second set of the plants of the second unit based at least on differences in the measurement for the one or more metrics associated with the first set of the plants and the second set of the plants; and in response to detecting the at least one difference in the first set of the plants of the first unit and the second set of the plants of the second unit, requesting additional images of the plants from the one or more image capture devices to detect presence of a plant disease in the first set of the plants or the second set of the plants.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein the acts further comprise: receiving the additional images of the plants from the one or more image capture devices; measuring the one or more metrics associated with the plants based at least on the additional images, wherein the one or more metrics comprise growth based metrics; generating a growth curve based at least on the growth based metrics associated with the plants; comparing a plant-specific model curve to the growth curve associated with the plants; detecting the presence of the plant disease based at least on at least one difference in the plant-specific model curve and the growth curve; and identifying the plant disease based at least on one or more characteristic patterns depicted in the growth curve.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 16, wherein the acts further comprise: recommending at least one course of action to mitigate the identified plant disease.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 17, wherein the acts further comprise: propagating the at least one course of action to one or more horticultural management device.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 16, wherein the acts further comprise: performing validation analyses to confirm that the plants depicted in the additional images are the same.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 16, wherein the acts further comprise: determining an overall growth rate and a degree of variability in growth rate associated with the plants based at least on the growth based metrics.
</claims>
</document>
