<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02,H04N21/2187,H04N21/433,H04N21/439,H04N21/44,H04N21/442,H04N21/458,H04N21/81,H04N21/845
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ICKIN, SELIM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61027665
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Controlling Playout of Advertisement Content During Live Video Streaming at an End-User Terminal
</title>

<abstract>
A method (100) of controlling playout of advertisement content during live video streaming at an end-user terminal comprising steps of: receiving (110) advertisement content from an advertisement server; receiving (112) live streamed video content from a content delivery network and playing out the video content; obtaining (114) at least one of image features and audio features of the video content during playout; calculating (116) a content importance rating of video content to be played out during a prediction time window based on said features; and postponing (118) playout of advertisement content scheduled to be played out during the prediction time window if the calculated content importance rating for the prediction time window is above a threshold value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of controlling playout of advertisement content during live video streaming at an end-user terminal, the method comprising: receiving advertisement content from an advertisement server; receiving live streamed video content from a content delivery network and playing out the video content; obtaining at least one of image features and audio features of the received video content during playout; calculating a content importance rating of received video content to be played out during a prediction time window based on said obtained features; and postponing playout of the received advertisement content scheduled to be played out during the prediction time window if the calculated content importance rating of received video content to be played out during the prediction time window is above a threshold value.
2. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising calculating a content importance rating of video content to be played out during a prediction time window when a pre-set playout time for received advertisement content is reached, the prediction time window following the pre-set playout time.
3. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising at least one of obtaining image features by identifying objects within the video content, and obtaining audio features by obtaining representations of power spectra of sounds within the received video content.
4. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: obtaining additional features comprising at least one of a video frame rate, a video bit rate, a video contrast, a spatial complexity, a temporal complexity, a sound level, proximity of a user to the end-user terminal, number of running applications on the end-user terminal, and a current time of day; and calculating the content importance rating of received video content based additionally on the obtained additional features.
5. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein calculating the content importance rating of video content to be played out comprises: determining a first criticality probability of the obtained image features and applying a first weight to the first criticality probability; determining second criticality probability of the obtained audio features and applying a second weight to the second criticality probability; determining a third criticality probability of the additional features and applying a third weight to the third criticality probability; and summing the weighted first, second and third probabilities.
6. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising obtaining the image features, audio features and additional features from received video content within a measurement time window, wherein the prediction time window follows the measurement time window, and wherein the measurement and prediction time windows are rolling time windows.
7. An end-user terminal arranged to control playout of advertisement content during live video streaming, the end-user terminal comprising a receiver, a processor and a memory containing instructions executable by the processor thereby to configure the processor: to receive, via the receiver, advertisement content from an advertisement server and live streamed video content from a content delivery network to obtain at least one of image features and audio features of the received video content during playout; to calculate a content importance rating of received video content to be played out during a prediction time window based on said obtained features, and to postpone playout of received advertisement content scheduled to be played out during the prediction time window if the calculated content importance rating of received video content to be played out during the prediction time window is above a threshold value.
8. The end-user terminal as claimed in claim 7, wherein the processor is thereby further configured: to determine, when a pre-set playout time for the received advertisement content is reached, whether the received video content to be played out during a prediction time window following the pre-set playout time has a content importance rating above the threshold value; and to postpone playout of advertisement content if the video content to be played out during said prediction time window has a content importance rating that is above the threshold value.
9. The end-user terminal as claimed in claim 7, wherein the processor is thereby further configured to obtain at least one of image features by identifying objects within the received video content and audio features by obtaining representations of power spectra of sounds within the received video content.
10. The end-user terminal as claimed in claim 7, wherein the processor is thereby further configured: to obtain additional features comprising at least one of a video frame rate, a video bit rate, a video contrast, a spatial complexity, a temporal complexity, a sound level, proximity of a user to the end-user terminal, number of running applications on the end-user terminal, and a current time of day; and to calculate the content importance rating of received video content based additionally on the obtained additional features.
11. The end-user terminal as claimed in claim 10, wherein the processor is thereby further configured: to predict the content importance rating by: determining a first criticality probability of the obtained image features and applying a first weight to the first criticality probability; determining a second criticality probability of the obtained audio features and applying a second weight to the second criticality probability; determining a third criticality probability of the additional features and applying a third weight to the third criticality probability; and summing the weighted first, second and third criticality probabilities.
12. The end-user terminal as claimed in claim 7, wherein the processor is thereby further configured to obtain the image features, audio features and additional features from received video content within a measurement time window and the processor is arranged to predict a content importance rating of received video content to be played out during a prediction time window following the measurement time window, and wherein the measurement and prediction time windows are rolling time windows.
13. An end-user terminal comprising: advertisement content processing circuitry arranged to receive advertisement content from an advertisement server; a playback buffer processing circuitry arranged to receive video content from a content delivery network; video player processing circuitry arranged to playout video content from the playback buffer and advertisement content from the advertisement content processing circuitry, and arranged to obtain at least one of image features and audio features of the video content during playout; and calculation processing circuitry arranged to calculate a content importance rating of video content to be played out during a prediction time window based on said obtained features, and wherein the video player processing circuitry is arranged to postpone playout of advertisement content scheduled to be played out during the prediction time window if the calculated content importance rating of video content to be played out during the prediction time window is above a threshold value.
14. A computer program which when loaded into a processor and executed, causes the processor to implement the method according to claim 1.
15. A computer-readable storage medium having stored therein a computer program which when loaded into a processor and executed, causes the processor to implement the method according to claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
