<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L5/14,H04W4/70,H04W4/80,H04W76/14,H04W8/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAJMUNDAR, MILAP
AKOUM, SALAM
WANG, XIAOYI
NOVLAN, THOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73456501
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MESH CONNECTIVITY BETWEEN NETWORK NODES IN HIERARCHIAL NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments disclosed herein provide for facilitating creating a mesh connectivity between network nodes in a hierarchical network. According an embodiment, a method comprising receiving a first condition, wherein the first condition indicates whether to setup a mesh connection with a first distributed unit node of a first node device. The method further comprising, in response to determining that the first condition indicates establishment of the mesh connection, facilitating establishing a peer-to-peer connection directly with the first distributed unit node of the first node device and a second distributed unit node of a second node device, wherein the first distributed unit node comprises wireless communication technologies and the second distributed unit node comprises wireless communication technologies. The method further comprising facilitating transmission of a control message or a user plane message in order to exchange connection information between the first distributed unit node and the second distributed unit node.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving a first condition, wherein the first condition indicates whether to setup a mesh connection with a first distributed unit node of a first node device; in response to determining that the first condition indicates establishment of the mesh connection, facilitating establishing a peer-to-peer connection directly with the first distributed unit node of the first node device and a second distributed unit node of a second node device, wherein the first distributed unit node and the second distributed unit node comprise a wireless communication capability; and facilitating transmission of a user plane message in order to exchange connection information between the first distributed unit node and the second distributed unit node.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: facilitating establishing a second connection between a first intermediate unit and a second intermediate unit, wherein the first intermediate unit is communicatively connected to the first distributed unit node and the second intermediate unit is communicatively connected to the second distributed unit node.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the first intermediate unit and the second intermediate unit comprise capabilities of a mobile terminal.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the first intermediate unit and the second intermediate unit comprise a short-range wireless communication capability.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: facilitating establishing a second connection between a first intermediate unit and the second distributed unit node, wherein the first intermediate unit comprises functions of a mobile terminal and is communicatively connected to the first distributed unit node.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: facilitating establishing a second connection between a first intermediate unit and a second intermediate unit, wherein the second connection employs a short-range wireless protocol, and wherein the first intermediate unit is communicatively wired to the first distributed unit node.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the control message comprises a distributed unit control plane message, and wherein the distributed unit control plane message comprises cross-link interference information.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the control message comprises a distributed unit control plane message, and wherein the distributed unit control plane message comprises a time division duplexing pattern.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the control message comprises a distributed unit control plane message, and wherein the distributed unit control plane message comprises a multi-hop scheduling metric.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the control message comprises a distributed unit control plane message, and wherein the distributed unit control plane message comprises distributed routing information.
11. A method, comprising: receiving, by a system comprising a processor, a first condition, wherein the first condition indicates whether to setup a mesh connection with a first distributed unit node of a first node device; in response to determining that the first condition indicates establishment of the mesh connection, facilitating, by the system, establishing a device-to-device connection directly with the first distributed unit node of the first node device and a second distributed unit node of a second node device, wherein the first distributed unit node and the second distributed unit node communicate according to a wireless communication protocol; and facilitating, by the system, transmitting of a control message in order to exchange connection information between the first distributed unit node and the second distributed unit node.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: establishing, by the system, a second connection between a first intermediate device and a second intermediate device, wherein the first intermediate device is communicatively connected to the first distributed unit node and the second intermediate device is communicatively connected to the second distributed unit node.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first intermediate device and the second intermediate device comprise functions of a mobile terminal.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the first intermediate device and the second intermediate device communicate according to a short-range wireless communication protocol.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: establishing, by the system, a second connection between a first intermediate device and the second distributed unit node, wherein the first intermediate device comprises functions of mobile terminal and is communicatively connected to the first distributed unit node.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising: establishing, by the system, a second connection between a first intermediate device and a second intermediate device, wherein the second connection communicate according to a short-range wireless protocol.
17. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving a first condition, wherein the first condition indicates whether to setup a mesh connection with a first distributed unit node of a first node device; in response to determining that the first condition indicates establishment of the mesh connection, facilitating establishing a wireless connection directly with the first distributed unit node of the first node device and a second distributed unit node of a second node device, wherein the first distributed unit node and the second distributed unit node comprise a wireless communication technology; and facilitating transmission of a control plane message and a user plane message in order to exchange connection information between the first distributed unit node and the second distributed unit node.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: facilitating establishing the wireless connection between a first intermediate unit and a second intermediate unit, wherein the first intermediate unit is communicatively connected to the first distributed unit node and the second intermediate unit is communicatively connected to the second distributed unit node.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: facilitating establishing the wireless connection between a first intermediate unit and the second distributed unit node, wherein the first intermediate unit comprises functions of a mobile terminal and is communicatively connected to the first distributed unit node.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: facilitating establishing the wireless connection between a first intermediate unit and a second intermediate unit, wherein a second connection employs a short-range wireless technology and the first intermediate unit is communicatively connected to the first distributed unit node employs a wired technology.
</claims>
</document>
