<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/067,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LOOK DYNAMICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CRILL, RIKKI J.
BAIARDO, JONATHAN C.
BRUCE, DAVID A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65806739
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PHOTONIC NEURAL NETWORK SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A system (10) for convolving and adding frames of data comprises a first sensor-display device (14) and a second sensor display device (26). Each sensor display device (14, 26) comprises an array (80) of transmit-receive modules (82). Each transmit-receive module (82) comprises a light sensor element (86), a light transmitter element (84), and a memory bank (90). A radial modulator device (20) is positioned where transmission of light fields comprising frames of data are Fourier transformed. Filters implemented by modulator elements of the radial modulator device (20) convolve the fields of light comprising the frames of data, which are then sensed on a pixel-by-pixel basis by the light sensor elements (86), which accumulate charges, thus sum pixel values of sequential convolved frames of data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for convolving and suming frames of data, comprising: a first sensor-display device comprising an array of transmit-receive modules, each transmit-receive module comprising a light sensor element, a light transmitter element, and a memory bank comprised of a plurality of memory cells; a second sensor display device comprising an array of transmit-receive modules, each transmit-receive module comprising a light sensor element, a light transmitter element, and a memory bank comprised of a plurality of memory cells; a radial modulator device having a plurality of modulator elements positioned at multiple radial distances and angular orientations in relation to an optic axis, the radial modulator device; a first Fourier transform lens positioned between the light transmitter elements of the first sensor-display device and the radial modulator device, and a second Fourier transform lens positioned between the light transmitter elements of the first sensor-display device and the radial modulator device, and said radial modulator device being positioned a focal length from the first Fourier transform lens and a focal length from the second Fourier transform lens so that the radial modulator device is positioned in the Fourier transform planes of both the first Fourier transform lens and the second Fourier transform lens.
2. The system of claim 1, including system control components for forming and feeding filters to the radial modulator device and for sequencing transmissions of light fields with frames of data from the first and second sensor-display devices, convolving the frames of data with the filters at in the radial modulator device, and sensing light fields comprising convolved frames of data from the radial modulator device.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the light sensor elements are capacitive light sensors in which charges from sensed light accumulate.
4. A method of convolving and summing frames of data for a convolutional neural network, comprising sequentially projecting the frames of data as a light fields in spatial domain along a first optic axis; creating Fourier transforms the light fields in sequence at a Fourier transform plane; convolving the light fields in sequence at the Fourier transform plane with a light modulator that has light modulating segments spaced at various radial distances and angular orientations with respect to the optic axis; inverse-Fourier transforming the sequence of convolved light fields back into spatial domain at a first sensor display location; sensing at the first sensor-display location each of the convolved light fields in the spatial domain on a pixel-by-pixel basis with capacitive light sensors at the pixel locations that have electric charge building capacity; and allowing the capacitive light sensors to accumulate the electric charges resulting from sensing in sequence the convolved light fields at the first sensor-display location;.
5. The method of claim 4, including shifting the accumulated electric charges in each sensor after sensing a plurality of convolved light fields to a memory cell in a memory bank such that the memory cell contains the accumulated electric charges resulting from sensed light at a particular pixel location for the light fields that have been sensed in the sequence;.
6. The method of claim 5, including: convolving additional sequences of light fields comprising frames of data with the light modulator applying different filters; and sensing the additional sequences of convolved light fields on a pixel-by-pixel basis with the capacitive sensors and accumulating electric charges that result from the sensing at each pixel location; and shifting the accumulated electric charges in each sensor after sensing a plurality of the convolved light fields to the memory cell that had the previously accumulated electric charge while shifting that previously accumulated electric charge to another memory cell in the memory bank; and; repeating those processes to build a 3D convolution block of convolved and sumed frames of data in the memory banks at each pixel location at the first sensor-display location.
7. The method of claim 6, including: transmitting and Fourier transforming the convolved and summed frames of data that form the 3D convolution block in sequential light fields from the pixel locations at the first sensor-display location back to the modulator in the Fourier transform plane; convolving the light fields in sequence at the Fourier transform plane with a light modulator that has light modulating segments spaced at various radial distances and angular orientations with respect to the optic axis; inverse-Fourier transforming the sequence of convolved light fields back into spatial domain at a second sensor display location; sensing at the second sensor-display location each of the convolved light fields in the spatial domain on a pixel-by-pixel basis with capacitive light sensors at the pixel locations that have electric charge building capacity; allowing the capacitive light sensors to accumulate the electric charges resulting from sensing in sequence the convolved light fields at the second sensor-display location; convolving additional sequences of light fields comprising frames of data with the light modulator applying different filters; and sensing at the second sensor-display location the additional sequences of convolved light fields on a pixel-by-pixel basis with the capacitive sensors and accumulating electric charges that result from the sensing at each pixel location; and shifting the accumulated electric charges in each sensor at the second sensor-receiver location after sensing a plurality of the convolved light fields to the memory cell that had the previously accumulated electric charge while shifting that previously accumulated electric charge to another memory cell in the memory bank; and; repeating those processes to build a 3D convolution block of convolved and summed frames of data in the memory banks at each pixel location at the second sensor-display location.
8. The method of claim 7, including repeating the processes in additional cycles.
9. The method of claim 8, including pooling pluralities of the sensors and memory banks together in repeated cycles of the processes.
10. The method of claim 8, including Max pooling of the pluralities of sensors and memory banks.
11. The method of claim 7, including transmitting the convolved and sumeded frames of data on a pixel-by-pixel basis with light transmitter elements at the pixel locations at the first sensor-display location.
</claims>
</document>
