<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
YAN RONG
LIN YONGHUA
ZHANG JIE
SUN, KEWEI
WANG, JUNSONG
GONG, YAN GY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74189919
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OBJECT DETECTION OPTIMIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides a computer-implemented method, computer system and computer program product for object detection. According to the computer-implemented method, a first object can be classified to be a first category based on detection data acquired in a detection area. Then, a confidence score for the first category can be calculated based on historical detection data of the detection area, wherein the confidence score presents possibility degree of at least one object of the first category existing in the detection area. Whether classification of the first object is abnormal can be determined based on the confidence score.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for object detection, comprising: classifying, by one or more processors, a first object to be a first category based on detection data acquired in a detection area; calculating, by one or more processors, a confidence score for the first category based on historical detection data of the detection area, wherein the confidence score presents possibility degree of at least one object of the first category existing in the detection area; and determining, by one or more processors, whether the classifying is abnormal based on the confidence score.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the calculating the confidence score for the first category further comprises: dividing, by one or more processors, the historical detection data of the detection area into multiple data sections; calculating, by one or more processors, an occurrence count of at least one object of the first category existing in each of the multiple data sections; and calculating, by one or more processors, the confidence score for the first category based on calculated occurrence counts.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the calculating the confidence score for the first category based on the occurrence counts further comprises: assigning, by one or more processors, a weight to each of the calculated occurrence counts according to characteristics of each of the multiple video sections; and calculating, by one or more processors, the confidence score for the first category based on the calculated occurrence counts and the assigned weights.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining whether the classifying is abnormal further comprises: in response to the confidence score not exceeding the preset threshold, determining, by one or more processors, the classifying to be abnormal.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining whether the classifying is abnormal further comprises: in response to the confidence score not exceeding the preset threshold: acquiring, by one or more processors, one or more verified categories corresponding to the detection area, wherein confidence scores of the verified categories exceed corresponding thresholds; and determining, by one or more processors, the classifying to be abnormal in response to the first category mapping with none of the one or more verified categories.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to concurrence of an object of a second category and an object of the first category exceeding preset times based on the historical detection data of the detection area, creating, by one or more processors, an entry in a database indicating that the first category is mapping with the second category.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to the classifying being determined to be abnormal, adjusting, by one or more processors, the first object from the first category to a third category.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to the classifying being determined to be normal, recording, by one or more processors, the first category as a verified category in the database.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: recording, by one or more processors, a timestamp corresponding to a detection time point of the first object of the first category in the database.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the detection data comprises images or video clips captured by a camera deployed in the detection area.
11. A computer system for object detection, comprising: one or more processors; a computer-readable memory coupled to the processors, the computer-readable memory comprising instructions that when executed by the processors perform actions of: classifying a first object to be a first category based on detection data acquired in a detection area; calculating a confidence score for the first category based on historical detection data of the detection area, wherein the confidence score presenting possibility degree of at least one object of the first category existing in the detection area; and determining whether the classifying is abnormal based on the confidence score.
12. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the calculating the confidence score for the first category further comprises: dividing the historical detection data of the detection area into multiple data sections; calculating an occurrence count of at least one object of the first category existing in each of the multiple data sections; and calculating the confidence score for the first category based on calculated occurrence counts.
13. The computer system of claim 12, wherein calculating the confidence score for the first category based on the occurrence counts further comprises: assigning a weight to each of the calculated occurrence counts according to characteristics of each of the multiple video sections; and calculating the confidence score for the first category based on the calculated occurrence counts and the assigned weights.
14. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the determining whether the classifying is abnormal further comprises: in response to the confidence score not exceeding the preset threshold, determining the classifying to be abnormal.
15. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the determining whether the classifying is abnormal further comprises: in response to the confidence score not exceeding the preset threshold: acquiring one or more verified categories corresponding to the detection area, wherein confidence scores of the verified categories exceed corresponding thresholds; and determining the classifying to be abnormal in response to the first category mapping with none of the one or more verified categories.
16. The computer system of claim 11, further comprising: in response to concurrence of an object of a second category and an object of the first category exceeding preset times based on the historical detection data of the detection area, creating an entry in a database indicating that the first category is mapping with the second category.
17. The computer system of claim 11, further comprising: in response to the classifying being determined to be abnormal, adjusting the first object from the first category to a third category.
18. The computer system of claim 11, further comprising: in response to the classifying being determined to be normal, recording the first category as a verified category in the database.
19. A computer program product, comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform actions of: classifying a first object to be a first category based on detection data acquired in a detection area; calculating a confidence score for the first category based on historical detection data of the detection area, wherein the confidence score presenting possibility degree of at least one object of the first category existing in the detection area; and determining whether the classifying is abnormal based on the confidence score.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the calculating the confidence score for the first category further comprises: dividing the historical detection data of the detection area into multiple data sections; calculating an occurrence count of at least one object of the first category existing in each of the multiple data sections; and calculating the confidence score for the first category based on calculated occurrence counts.
</claims>
</document>
