<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16B40/20,G16B40/30,G16B45/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ANCESTRY.COM DNA
</assignee>

<inventors>
CURTIS, ROSS E.
VARNER, NEAL CRAIG
VAN DYKE, JUSTIN MATTHEW ROBERT
JORGENSEN, BRETT FREDERICK
RIRIE, BRYCE DAMON
BECKER, KELLY MCCLOY
BONKEMEYER, MICHAELA BLACK
MULLIGAN, MICHAEL JOSEPH
KERR, BRIAN JEREL
SONG, SHIYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72141761
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE DISPLAYING RELATEDNESS BASED ON SHARED DNA
</title>

<abstract>
A user may select one or more potential common ancestors with a DNA match to view the target individual's relationship with them. The process may include identifying, from a first genealogical profile of the target individual. A first individual has a first linkage that connects the target individual towards the selected potential common ancestor. The process may also include identifying, from a second genealogical profile of the DNA match, a second individual who has a second linkage that connects the DNA match towards the selected potential common ancestor. The process may further include connecting the first linkage and the second linkage with the selected potential common ancestor by adding one or more individuals whose profiles are retrieved from other searchable genealogical profiles stored in the online system. With the nodes and connections available, the process may generate a map of visual connections between the target individual and the DNA match.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: transmitting for display, at an electronic device, one or more potential common ancestors between a DNA match of a target individual and the target individual; receiving, from the electronic device, a selection of one of the potential common ancestors; identifying, from a first genealogical profile of the target individual stored at an online system, a first individual who has a first linkage that connects the target individual towards the selected potential common ancestor; identifying, from a second genealogical profile of the DNA match stored at the online system, a second individual who has a second linkage that connects the DNA match towards the selected potential common ancestor; connecting the first linkage and the second linkage with the selected potential common ancestor by adding one or more individuals whose profiles are retrieved from other searchable genealogical profiles stored in the online system; and generating a map of visual connections between the target individual and the DNA match through the selected potential common ancestor, the map comprising the first linkage, the second linkage, and the added one or more individuals.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a command from the electronic device to expand the map; and expanding the map to an expanded map, which comprises a first branch including the first linkage, a second branch including the second linkage, and a third branch including one or more additional descendants of the selected potential common ancestor.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the selected potential common ancestor is not in the target individual's genealogical profile or the DNA match's genealogical profile.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a command from the electronic device to change a view of the map of visual connections; and transmitting for display a list of potentially related individuals, the list replacing the map of visual connections.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the individuals in the map are displayed as private without revealing personal information.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein individuals who are potentially related to the target individual are displayed using a first graphical element and individuals who are confirmed to be related with the target individual are displayed using a second graphical element different from the first graphical element.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the individuals in the map are associated with metadata that are classified as groups and are displayed in the map as color codes.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the individuals in the map are associated with metadata, the method further comprising: receiving a selection based on one or more of the following filters: groups, viewed, notes, messaged, private linked trees, public linked trees, unlinked trees or common ancestors.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the common ancestors filter suggests one or more matches who might share common ancestors with the target individual.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the DNA match is selected from a list of potential DNA matches displayed at the electronic device.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the map is represented in a form of family tree.
12. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for storing instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform steps comprising: transmitting for display, at an electronic device, one or more potential common ancestors between a DNA match of a target individual and the target individual; receiving, from the electronic device, a selection of one of the potential common ancestors; identifying, from a first genealogical profile of the target individual stored at an online system, a first individual who has a first linkage that connects the target individual towards the selected potential common ancestor; identifying, from a second genealogical profile of the DNA match stored at the online system, a second individual who has a second linkage that connects the DNA match towards the selected potential common ancestor; connecting the first linkage and the second linkage with the selected potential common ancestor by adding one or more individuals whose profiles are retrieved from other searchable genealogical profiles stored in the online system; and generating a map of visual connections between the target individual and the DNA match through the selected potential common ancestor, the map comprising the first linkage, the second linkage, and the added one or more individuals.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, further comprising: receiving a command from the electronic device to expand the map; and expanding the map to a complete map, which comprises a first branch including the first linkage, a second branch including the second linkage, and a third branch including one or more additional descendants of the selected potential common ancestor.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the selected potential common ancestor is not in the target individual's genealogical profile or the match's genealogical profile.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, further comprising: receiving a command from the electronic device to change a view of the map of visual connections; and transmitting for display a list of potentially related individuals, the list replacing the map of visual connections.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein one or more of the individuals in the map are displayed as private without revealing personal information.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein individuals who are potentially related to the target individual are displayed using a first graphical element and individuals who are confirmed to be related with the target individual are displayed using a second graphical element different from the first graphical element.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the individuals in the map are associated with metadata that are classified as groups and are displayed in the map as color codes.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the individuals in the map are associated with metadata, the method further comprising: receiving a selection based on one or more of the following filters: groups, viewed, notes, messaged, private linked trees, public linked trees, unlinked trees or common ancestors.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the common ancestors filter suggests one or more matches who might share common ancestors with the target individual.
21. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the DNA match is selected from a list of potential DNA matches displayed at the electronic device.
22. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the map is represented in a form of family tree.
</claims>
</document>
