<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R31/26,G06N20/00,H01L21/66
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PDF SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAVID, JEFFREY DRUE
HONDA, TOMONORI
CHEONG, LIN LEE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68053837
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MAINTENANCE SCHEDULING FOR SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING EQUIPMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A maintenance tool for semiconductor process equipment and components. Sensor data is evaluated by machine learning tools to determine when to schedule maintenance action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: evaluating a first plurality of sensor measurements associated with a first component of semiconductor manufacturing equipment in order to determine a relationship between each of the first plurality of sensor measurements and each of a plurality of failure modes of the first component; for each of the plurality of failure modes of the first component, selecting a corresponding subset of the first plurality of sensor measurements determined to be most indicative of the failure mode based on the relationship; and evaluating the corresponding subsets of the first plurality of sensor measurements in order to determine potential failure modes of the first component.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: predicting a remaining useful life of the first component based on the evaluation of the corresponding subsets; and scheduling maintenance of the first component when the remaining useful life of the first component is less than a threshold value.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: configuring a first model to perform the steps of evaluating the first plurality of sensor measurements and selecting a corresponding subset; and configuring a second model to perform the step of evaluating the corresponding subset.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: the first model is a physics-based model and the second model is a data-driven model.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: the first model and the second model are implemented as machine learning models trained on historical sensor measurements.
6. The method of claim 4, the first model further comprising: collecting the first plurality of sensor measurements from a first plurality of sensors associated with the first component during regular production runs of the semiconductor manufacturing equipment, each of the first plurality of sensor measurements corresponding to a respective one of the first plurality of sensors; with the first model, simulating a first failure mode of the first component and modeling a second plurality of sensor measurements from the first plurality of sensors as a result of the simulated first failure mode, each of the second plurality of sensor measurements corresponding to a respective one of a first plurality of sensor measurements; measuring a plurality of signal shifts between respective ones of the first plurality of sensor measurements and the second plurality of sensor measurements; evaluating the plurality of signal shifts in order to determine the relationship between each of the first plurality of sensor measurements and the induced first failure mode of the first component; and selecting a first subset for of the first plurality of sensor measurements based on the relationship exceeding a first threshold criteria indicative of the first failure mode.
7. The method of claim 3, further comprising: adapting and tuning the first model and the second model as more sensor measurements are collected.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: collecting additional data sets of sensor measurements that are beneficial for tuning the first model and the second model to recognize a false positive, a false negative, or a false classification; wherein the false positive results when the evaluation step identifies a first failure mode of the first component in error, the false negative results when the evaluation step fails to identify a second failure mode of the first component when present, and the false classification results when the evaluation step identifies a third failure mode of the first component but misidentifies a root cause of the third failure mode.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: evaluating additional pluralities of sensor measurements, each of the additional pluralities of sensor measurements associated with one or more components of the semiconductor manufacturing equipment, in order to determine a relationship between each one of the pluralities of sensor measurements and each one of a plurality of failure modes associated with respective components; for each of the plurality of failure modes associated with respective components, selecting a corresponding subset of the pluralities of sensor measurements determined to be most indicative of the failure mode for a respective component; and evaluating the corresponding subsets of sensor measurements to determine potential failure modes of each respective component.
10. The method of claim 4, the second model further comprising: a classification model for classifying a plurality of known failure modes;
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: detecting an unknown failure mode; classifying the unknown failure mode; and adding the unknown failure mode to the classification model.
12. A method, comprising: determining, using a physics-based model, a relationship between each of a first plurality of sensor measurements and each of a plurality of failure modes of a first component of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, and for each of the plurality of failure modes, selecting a corresponding subset of the first plurality of sensor measurements to represent the failure mode on the basis of the relationship of each sensor measurement to the failure mode; and evaluating, using a data-driven model, the corresponding subsets of the first plurality of sensor measurements to diagnose one of the plurality of failure modes of the first component.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: predicting a remaining useful life of the first component based on the evaluation of the corresponding subsets; and scheduling maintenance of the first component when the remaining useful life of the first component is less than a threshold value.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising: the relationship between each of the first plurality of sensor measurements and each of the plurality of failure modes is determined by inducing a first failure mode in the first component and comparing shifts in sensor measurements of the corresponding subset.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: for each of the plurality of failure modes, the corresponding subset is selected based on the impact the failure mode has on the sensor measurements.
16. The method of claim 14, further comprising: for each of the plurality of failure modes, the corresponding subset is selected based on the relationship exceeding a first threshold criteria indicative of the first failure mode.
17. The method of claim 12, further comprising: evaluating additional pluralities of sensor measurements, each of the additional pluralities of sensor measurements associated with one or more components of the semiconductor manufacturing equipment, in order to determine a relationship between each one of the pluralities of sensor measurements and each one of a plurality of failure modes associated with respective components; for each of the plurality of failure modes associated with respective components, selecting a corresponding subset of the pluralities of sensor measurements determined to be most indicative of the failure mode for a respective component; and evaluating the corresponding subsets of sensor measurements to diagnose one of the plurality of failure modes of each respective component.
18. A method, comprising: using a physics-based model for feature engineering of sensor measurement data to select a subset of the sensor measurement data to represent a failure mode of a semiconductor manufacturing component; and using a data-driven model to evaluate the subset of sensor measurement data to diagnose the failure mode.
19. A diagnostic engine for components of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, comprising: a physics-based model configured to (i) evaluate a first plurality of sensor measurements associated with a first component of semiconductor manufacturing equipment; (ii) determine, based on the evaluation, a relationship between each of the plurality of sensor measurements and each of a plurality of failure modes of the first component; and (iii) for each failure mode of the first component, select a corresponding subset of the first plurality of sensor measurements determined to be most indicative of the failure mode; and a data-driven model configured to evaluate the corresponding subsets of the plurality of sensor measurements in order to determine at least one of the plurality of failure modes.
20. The diagnostic engine of claim 19, further comprising: a prognostic engine for predicting a remaining useful life of the first component based on the evaluation of the corresponding subsets; and scheduling maintenance of the first component when the remaining useful life of the first component is less than a threshold value.
</claims>
</document>
