<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04N21/2662,H04N21/414
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CARLSSON, NIKLAS
HALEPOVIC, EMIR
Krishnamoorthi, Vengatanathan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72423585
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cap-based Client-Network Interaction for Improved Streaming Experience
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, setting a streaming rate cap for a client device; obtaining a bitrate ladder associated with the client device, wherein the bitrate ladder comprises a listing of a plurality of bitrates that the client device can request in connection with receiving streaming data; determining a boost rate for the client device, wherein the boost rate is greater than the streaming rate cap such that the boost rate enables the client device to receive the streaming data faster than the client device would otherwise receive the streaming data under the streaming rate cap, and wherein the boost rate is based upon the bitrate ladder; and enabling delivery to the client device of the streaming data up to the boost rate; wherein a network device is part of a network through which the streaming data is delivered to the client device. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A network device comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, perform operations, the operations comprising: setting a streaming rate cap for a client device of a plurality of client devices; obtaining from the client device a bitrate ladder associated with the client device, wherein the bitrate ladder comprises a listing of a plurality of bitrates that the client device can request in connection with receiving streaming data; determining a boost rate for the client device, wherein the boost rate is greater than the streaming rate cap such that the boost rate enables the client device to receive the streaming data faster than the client device would otherwise receive the streaming data under the streaming rate cap, and wherein the boost rate is based upon the bitrate ladder; and enabling delivery to the client device of the streaming data up to the boost rate that is determined; wherein the network device is part of a network through which the streaming data is delivered to the client device.
2. The network device of claim 1, wherein the boost rate for the client device is further based upon other bitrate ladders that are respectively associated with each other client device of the plurality of client devices.
3. The network device of claim 1, wherein the streaming data delivered to the client device comprises a plurality of data flows, and wherein the boost rate is applied to a subset of the plurality of data flows.
4. The network device of claim 3, wherein the plurality of data flows comprises a video data flow, an audio data flow, multiple video/audio data flows, a subtitle data flow, a metadata data flow, or any combination thereof.
5. The network device of claim 4, wherein the boost rate is applied to only one of the plurality of data flows.
6. The network device of claim 1, wherein the network device is configured to operatively communicate with a content source for providing the streaming data to the client device.
7. The network device of claim 1, wherein the setting the streaming rate cap for the client device comprises setting the streaming rate cap for each client device of the plurality of client devices.
8. The network device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise setting another streaming rate cap for another client device of the plurality of client devices.
9. The network device of claim 8, wherein the streaming rate cap differs from the another streaming rate cap, and wherein each of the streaming rate cap and the another streaming rate cap are set based upon a fairness metric.
10. The network device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise obtaining other bitrate ladders that are respectively associated with each other client device of the plurality of client devices, and wherein each of the other bitrate ladders is obtained from a respective one of the plurality of client devices.
11. The network device of claim 1, wherein the streaming data is delivered to the client device at the boost rate for a period of time that is based upon a buffer fill level of the client device, and wherein, after the period of time has elapsed, the streaming data is provided to the client device at the streaming rate cap.
12. The network device of claim 1, wherein the network device comprises a server, wherein the determining the boost rate further comprises determining a boost duration, and wherein the determining the boost duration is performed prior to delivery of the streaming data or during delivery of the streaming data.
13. The network device of claim 1, wherein the network comprises a base station and wherein each of the plurality of client devices is a mobile device.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising executable instructions that, when executed by an element of a network including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: setting, for each client device of a plurality of client devices, a respective streaming rate cap; obtaining a respective bitrate ladder associated with each client device, wherein each bitrate ladder comprises a respective listing of bitrates that each respective client device can request in connection with receiving respective streaming data, and wherein each bitrate ladder is obtained from each respective client device; and determining, for each client device, a respective boost rate, wherein for each client device the respective boost rate is greater than the respective streaming rate cap, and wherein for each client device the respective boost rate is based upon the respective bitrate ladder and upon bitrate ladders associated with other client devices of the plurality of client devices.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise enabling delivery, to each client device, of the respective streaming data at the respective boost rate.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the element of the network is a server, and wherein the server is configured to be in operative communication with each client device.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein each client device is a mobile device, and wherein the server is configured to be in operative communication with each client device via one or more base stations.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein for each client device the respective boost rate is further based upon a respective buffer fill level.
19. A method comprising: obtaining, by a processing system including a processor, a bitrate ladder associated with a client device, wherein the bitrate ladder comprises a listing of a plurality of bitrates that the client device can request in connection with receiving streaming data; determining, by the processing system, a first boost rate for the client device, wherein the first boost rate is greater than a streaming rate cap for the client device such that the first boost rate enables the client device to receive the streaming data faster than the client device would otherwise receive the streaming data under the streaming rate cap, and wherein the first boost rate is based upon the bitrate ladder; enabling, by the processing system, first delivery to the client device of a first portion of the streaming data; determining, by the processing system, that the first portion of the streaming data was delivered to the client device at an actual rate below the first boost rate; allocating, by the processing system, a credit to the client device, wherein the credit reflects a difference between the first boost rate that was determined and the actual rate at which the first portion of the streaming data was delivered to the client device; determining, by the processing system, a second boost rate for the client device, wherein the second boost rate is greater than the streaming rate cap for the client device such that the second boost rate enables the client device to receive the streaming data faster than the client device would otherwise receive the streaming data under the streaming rate cap, and wherein the second boost rate is based upon the credit allocated to the client device; and enabling, by the processing system, second delivery to the client device of a second portion of the streaming data, wherein the second portion of the streaming data is delivered up to the second boost rate.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising setting, by the processing system, the streaming rate cap for the client device.
</claims>
</document>
