<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/02,A61B5/0225,A61B5/024,G06F30/28,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
PAL, ARPAN
SINHA, ANIRUDDHA
ROY, DIBYENDU
MAZUMDER, OISHEE
BHATTACHARYA, SAKYAJIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69770642
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PRESSURE AUTOREGULATION BASED SYNTHESIZING OF PHOTOPLETHYSMOGRAM SIGNAL
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure relates to digital twin of cardiovascular system called as cardiovascular model to generate synthetic Photoplethysmogram (PPG) signal pertaining to disease conditions. The conventional methods are stochastic model capable of generating statistically equivalent PPG signals by utilizing shape parameterization and a nonstationary model of PPG signal time evolution. But these technique generates only patient specific PPG signatures and do not correlate with pathophysiological changes. Further, these techniques like most synthetic data generation techniques lack interpretability. The cardiovascular model of the present disclosure is configured to generate the plurality of synthetic PPG signals corresponding to the plurality of disease conditions. The plurality of synthetic PPG signals can be used to tune Machine Learning algorithms. Further, the plurality of synthetic PPG signals can be utilized to understand, analyze and classify cardiovascular disease progression.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A processor-implemented method, the method comprising: receiving, by a one or more hardware processors, a plurality of systolic phase parameters and a plurality of diastolic phase parameters associated with a cardiovascular model; computing, by the one or more hardware processors, a systolic phase of a PPG signal based on the plurality of systolic phase parameters by utilizing a systolic contractility function and a baroreflex control, wherein the systolic contractility function comprises a plurality of systolic time constants, a systolic duration and a cardiac cycle duration; computing, by the one or more hardware processors, a diastolic phase of the PPG signal based on a plurality of diastolic phase parameters by utilizing a diastole contractility function and the baroreflex control, wherein the diastolic contractility function comprises a plurality of diastolic time constants, a diastolic duration and the cardiac cycle duration; generating, by the one or more hardware processors, a synthetic PPG signal based on the computed systolic phase and the diastolic phase of the PPG signal, wherein the synthetic PPG signal is associated with a plurality of the synthetic PPG signal parameters; simultaneously fetching, by the one or more hardware processors, a plurality of predetermined morphological features associated with a PPG signal from a database; optimizing, by the one or more hardware processors, the plurality of synthetic PPG signal parameters to obtain a plurality of optimized parameters by utilizing the plurality of predetermined morphological features; and generating, by the one or more hardware processors, the plurality of synthetic PPG signals corresponding to the plurality of disease conditions by varying the plurality of parameters, wherein the plurality of parameters comprises the plurality of optimized parameters and a plurality of cardiovascular model parameters.
2. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of predetermined morphological features of the PPG signal comprises a cycle duration, a systolic peak amplitude, a systolic peak location, a diastolic notch amplitude and a diastolic notch location.
3. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of synthetic PPG signal parameters comprises a cycle duration, a systolic peak amplitude, a systolic peak location, a diastolic notch amplitude and a diastolic notch location.
4. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein computing the systolic phase of the PPG signal, computing the diastolic phase of the PPG signal and generating the synthetic PPG signal by utilizing the computed systolic phase and the diastolic phase are performed by utilizing the cardiovascular model.
5. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the cardiovascular model comprising a two chambered heart with contractility function, a plurality of blood vessels with flow dynamics and a baroreflex control, wherein the two chambered heart comprising a right ventricle with a tricuspid valve and pulmonary valve, and a left ventricle with a mitral valve and an aortic valve, wherein a pulmonary vessel is connected to the right ventricle via a pulmonary artery and the pulmonary valve, wherein the pulmonary vessel is connected to the left ventricle via a pulmonary vein and the mitral valve, wherein a systemic vessel is connected to the right ventricle via a systemic vein and the tricuspid valve, wherein the systemic vessel is connected to the left ventricle via a systemic artery and the aortic valve.
6. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the pressure on arteries and veins are regulated by the baroreflex control.
7. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the systolic phase parameters comprising a systolic time delay, a systolic lag constant, a systolic gain and a systemic arterial pressure, wherein the systemic arterial pressure is computed based on a compliance of the systemic artery and a volume associated with the systemic artery.
8. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the diastolic phase parameters comprising a diastolic time delay, a diastolic lag constant, a diastolic gain and a pressure difference between the right ventricle and the systemic vein, wherein the right ventricular pressure is computed based on a compliance of the right ventricle and a volume associated with the right ventricle, wherein the pressure on the systemic vein is computed based on a compliance of the systemic vessel and a volume associated with the systemic vessel.
9. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the cardiovascular model parameters comprises a valve resistance, a capillary resistance, the time constants, the pressure in the blood vessels, a cardiovascular compliance and vessel compliance.
10. A system comprising: at least one memory storing programmed instructions; one or more hardware processors operatively coupled to the at least one memory, wherein the one or more hardware processors are configured by the programmed instructions to: receive a plurality of systolic phase parameters and a plurality of diastolic phase parameters associated with a cardiovascular model; compute a systolic phase of a PPG signal based on the plurality of systolic phase parameters by utilizing a systolic contractility function and a baroreflex control, wherein the systolic contractility f unction comprises a plurality of systolic time constants, a systolic duration and a cardiac cycle duration; compute a diastolic phase of the PPG signal based on a plurality of diastolic phase parameters by utilizing a diastole contractility function and the baroreflex control, wherein the diastolic contractility function comprises a plurality of diastolic time constants, a diastolic duration and the cardiac cycle duration; generate a synthetic PPG signal based on the computed systolic phase and the diastolic phase of the PPG signal, wherein the synthetic PPG signal is associated with a plurality of the synthetic PPG signal parameters; simultaneously fetch a plurality of predetermined morphological features associated with a PPG signal from a database; optimize the plurality of synthetic PPG signal parameters to obtain a plurality of optimized parameters by utilizing the plurality of predetermined morphological features; and generate the plurality of synthetic PPG signals corresponding to the plurality of disease conditions by varying the plurality of parameters, wherein the plurality of parameters comprises the plurality of optimized parameters and a plurality of cardiovascular model parameters.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the plurality of predetermined morphological features of the PPG signal comprises a cycle duration, a systolic peak amplitude, a systolic peak location, a diastolic notch amplitude and a diastolic notch location.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the plurality of synthetic PPG signal parameters comprises a cycle duration, a systolic peak amplitude, a systolic peak location, a diastolic notch amplitude and a diastolic notch location.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein computing the systolic phase of the PPG signal, computing the diastolic phase of the PPG signal and generating the synthetic PPG signal by utilizing the computed systolic phase and the diastolic phase are performed by utilizing the cardiovascular model.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the cardiovascular model comprising a two chambered heart with contractility function, a plurality of blood vessels with flow dynamics and a baroreflex control, wherein the two chambered heart comprising a right ventricle with a tricuspid valve and pulmonary valve, and a left ventricle with a mitral valve and an aortic valve, wherein a pulmonary vessel is connected to the right ventricle via a pulmonary artery and the pulmonary valve, wherein the pulmonary vessel is connected to the left ventricle via a pulmonary vein and the mitral valve, wherein a systemic vessel is connected to the right ventricle via a systemic vein and the tricuspid valve, wherein the systemic vessel is connected to the left ventricle via a systemic artery and the aortic valve.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the pressure on arteries and veins are regulated by the baroreflex control.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein the systolic phase parameters comprising a systolic time delay, a systolic lag constant, a systolic gain and a systemic arterial pressure, wherein the systemic arterial pressure is computed based on a compliance of the systemic artery and a volume associated with the systemic artery.
17. The system of claim 10, wherein the diastolic phase parameters comprising a diastolic time delay, a diastolic lag constant, a diastolic gain and a pressure difference between the right ventricle and the systemic vein, wherein the right ventricular pressure is computed based on a compliance of the right ventricle and a volume associated with the right ventricle, wherein the pressure on the systemic vein is computed based on a compliance of the systemic vessel and a volume associated with the systemic vessel.
18. The system of claim 10, wherein the cardiovascular model parameters comprises a valve resistance, a capillary resistance, the time constants, the pressure in the blood vessels, a cardiovascular compliance and vessel compliance.
19. One or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums comprising one or more instructions which when executed by one or more hardware processors causes: receiving, by a one or more hardware processors, a plurality of systolic phase parameters and a plurality of diastolic phase parameters associated with a cardiovascular model; computing, by the one or more hardware processors, a systolic phase of a PPG signal based on the plurality of systolic phase parameters by utilizing a systolic contractility function and a baroreflex control, wherein the systolic contractility f unction comprises a plurality of systolic time constants, a systolic duration and a cardiac cycle duration; computing, by the one or more hardware processors, a diastolic phase of the PPG signal based on a plurality of diastolic phase parameters by utilizing a diastole contractility function and the baroreflex control, wherein the diastolic contractility function comprises a plurality of diastolic time constants, a diastolic duration and the cardiac cycle duration; generating, by the one or more hardware processors, a synthetic PPG signal based on the computed systolic phase and the diastolic phase of the PPG signal, wherein the synthetic PPG signal is associated with a plurality of the synthetic PPG signal parameters; simultaneously fetching, by the one or more hardware processors, a plurality of predetermined morphological features associated with a PPG signal from a database; optimizing, by the one or more hardware processors, the plurality of synthetic PPG signal parameters to obtain a plurality of optimized parameters by utilizing the plurality of predetermined morphological features; and generating, by the one or more hardware processors, the plurality of synthetic PPG signals corresponding to the plurality of disease conditions by varying the plurality of parameters, wherein the plurality of parameters comprises the plurality of optimized parameters and a plurality of cardiovascular model parameters.
</claims>
</document>
