<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAIER, ANTHONY L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70849552
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATION OF A PERSONA KEY
</title>

<abstract>
Generating a persona key based on at least internet protocol session information associated with a user equipment and user data associated with the user equipment is disclosed. The disclosed subject matter can enable communication of the persona key to a capturing device to enable a portion of information from a user profile correlated to the persona key to be communicated to a receiving device. In some embodiments, the persona key can further be based on time, date, location, user input, etc. The persona key can be a dynamic representation of identification that can be more secure than conventional static representations. Additionally, the persona key can be communicated by optical, audio, or electromagnetic techniques that can avoid a user having to speak an account number, password, username, etc., to provide access to the portion of the information from the user profile.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A first device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving internet protocol session information representative of an internet protocol session; generating a persona key based on combining user data with the internet protocol session information; and communicating the persona key to a second device to enable a third device to receive information related to a user profile correlated to the persona key.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the internet protocol session information is first internet protocol session information representative of a first internet protocol session, and wherein the operations further comprise: in response to receiving second internet protocol session information representative of a second internet protocol session, updating the persona key based on the second internet protocol session information.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the wherein the internet protocol session information is first internet protocol session information representative of a first internet protocol session, wherein the persona key is a first persona key, wherein the user data is first user data, and wherein the operations further comprise: generating second user data based on the first user data and the first persona key; in response to receiving second internet protocol session information representative of a second internet protocol session, generating a second persona key based on the second internet protocol session information and the second user data; and communicating the second persona key to the third device to enable the third device to receive information related to the user profile correlated to the second persona key.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the generating the persona key is further based on location data representative of a location of a user equipment associated with the first internet protocol session.
5. The device of claim 4, wherein the generating the persona key is further based on date data representative of a date associated with use of the first internet protocol session.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the generating the persona key is further based on time data representative of a time associated with use of the first internet protocol session.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the generating the persona key is further based on input received via a user interface of a user equipment.
8. The device of claim 7, wherein the input is a passcode received via the user interface.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the first device is a mobile device, and wherein the user profile corresponds to a user of the mobile device.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the second device and the third device are a same device.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the communicating the persona key to the second device is via a technology selected from a group of technologies comprising an optical bar code technology, an optical quick response code technology, an audio technology, a wireless communications technology, and a near field communication technology.
12. A first device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving a persona key, wherein the persona key is based on internet protocol session information associated with a user equipment and user data associated with the user equipment; and employing the persona key to enable communicating a portion of information of a user profile correlated to the persona key to a second device.
13. The first device of claim 12, wherein the receiving the persona key is via an optical modality selected from a group of optical modalities comprising a bar code modality and a quick response code modality.
14. The first device of claim 12, wherein the receiving the persona key is via a radio frequency modality selected from a group of radio frequency modalities comprising a near field communication modality, a BLUETOOTH modality, a ZIGBEE modality, and a WI-FI modality.
15. The first device of claim 12, wherein the first device and the second device are a same device.
16. The first device of claim 12, wherein the persona key is employed to access, via a communication framework, the portion of information of the user profile correlated to the persona key from a data storage device located remotely from the device.
17. A method, comprising: generating, by a system comprising a processor, a persona key based on first internet protocol session information associated with a user equipment and user data associated with the user equipment; and communicating, by the system, the persona key to a first device to facilitate communicating information related to a user profile correlated to the persona key to a second device.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising, updating, by the system, the persona key in response to receiving second internet protocol session information associated with the user equipment.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the generating the persona key is based on user data comprising a proto-persona key, and wherein the generating the persona key is further based on a factor selected from the group of factors comprising a time, a date, a location of the user equipment, and a user input received via a user interface of the user equipment.
20. The method of claim 17, further comprising, encrypting, by the system based on the persona key, data communicated between the user equipment and an endpoint device.
</claims>
</document>
