<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/02,B60W30/18,B60W40/06,G05D1/00,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PONY.AI
</assignee>

<inventors>
YU, XIANG
LOU, TIANCHENG
PENG, JUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650333
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR IMPLEMENTING A PREEMPTIVE SUSPENSION CONTROL FOR AN AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE TO IMPROVE RIDE QUALITY
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media are provided for implementing a preemptive suspension control for an autonomous vehicle to improve ride quality. Data from one or more sensors onboard the autonomous vehicle can be acquired. A surface imperfection of a road can be identified from the data. A next action for the autonomous vehicle can be determined based on the road condition. A signal can be outputted that causes the autonomous vehicle to act in accordance with the next action after adjusting the suspension preemptively.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for implementing a preemptive suspension control system for a vehicle, comprising: acquiring data from one or more sensors on the vehicle; identifying one or more conditions on a road from the data; determining a next action for the autonomous vehicle based on the one or more conditions; and outputting a signal causing the autonomous vehicle to act in accordance with the next action.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the next action based on the one or more road conditions further comprises: determining a size of the one or more road condition based on the data; and determining the next action based on the size of the one or more road conditions.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the size of the one or more road conditions further comprises: analyzing data acquired from a LiDAR corresponding to the one or more road conditions; and determining the size of the one or more road conditions based on the data acquired from the LiDAR; wherein the one or more sensors on the autonomous vehicle include one or more LiDARs, one or more radars, and one or more cameras.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the next action based on the size of the one or more road conditions includes one of directing the autonomous vehicle to accelerate or directing the autonomous vehicle to decelerate.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the next action based on the one or more road conditions further comprises: wherein the preemptive suspension control system is a feedforward control augmented with a feedback control.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: responsive to determining the next action based on the one or more road conditions outputting by the preemptive suspension control system a signal to adjust one or more suspension components of the autonomous vehicle prior to outputting a signal causing the autonomous vehicle to act in accordance with the next action.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the next action based on the one or more road conditions further comprises: determining that a neighboring lane is clear of moving vehicles; and determining the next action based on the neighboring lane being clear of moving vehicles.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the neighboring lane is clear of moving vehicles further comprises: utilizing one or more radars to detect presence of moving vehicles in the neighboring lane.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein determining the next action based on the neighboring lane being clear of moving vehicles includes directing the autonomous vehicle to move into the neighboring lane after the preemptive suspension control system has adjusted the one or more suspension components of the autonomous vehicle.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more road condition includes at least one of a debris, bump, pothole, a sinkhole, or an uneven pavement.
11. A computing system for implementing a preemptive suspension control system for an autonomous vehicle to improve ride quality comprising: one or more processors; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processor, causes the system to perform: acquiring data from one or more sensors on the vehicle; identifying one or more conditions on a road from the data; determining a next action for the autonomous vehicle based on the one or more conditions; and outputting a signal causing the autonomous vehicle to act in accordance with the next action.
12. The computing system of claim 11, wherein determining the next action based on the one or more road conditions further comprises: wherein the preemptive suspension control system is a feedforward control augmented with a feedback control.
13. The computing system of claim 12, responsive to determining the next action based on the one or more road conditions further comprising: outputting by the preemptive suspension control system a signal to adjust one or more suspension components of the autonomous vehicle prior to outputting a signal causing the autonomous vehicle to act in accordance with the next action.
14. The computing system of claim 13, wherein determining the next action based on the neighboring lane being clear of moving vehicles includes directing the autonomous vehicle to move into the neighboring lane after the preemptive suspension control system has adjusted the one or more suspension components of the autonomous vehicle.
15. The computing system of claim 14, further comprising responsive to performing the next action, further adjusting the one or more suspension components while the next action occurring.
16. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed, cause one or more processors to perform: acquiring data from one or more sensors on the vehicle; identifying one or more conditions on a road from the data; determining a next action for the autonomous vehicle based on the one or more conditions; and outputting a signal causing the autonomous vehicle to act in accordance with the next action.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein determining the next action based on the one or more road conditions further comprises: wherein the preemptive suspension control system is a feedforward control augmented with a feedback control.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, responsive to determining the next action based on the one or more road conditions further comprising: outputting by the preemptive suspension control system a signal to adjust one or more suspension components of the autonomous vehicle prior to outputting a signal causing the autonomous vehicle to act in accordance with the next action.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein determining the next action based on the neighboring lane being clear of moving vehicles includes directing the autonomous vehicle to move into the neighboring lane after the preemptive suspension control system has adjusted the one or more suspension components of the autonomous vehicle.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, further comprising responsive to performing the next action, further adjusting the one or more suspension components while the next action occurring.
</claims>
</document>
