<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/30,G06F9/54,H03M7/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICRON TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAMESH, VIJAY S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72921647
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BIT STING OPERATIONS USING A COMPUTING TILE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, apparatuses, and methods related to bit string operations using a computing tile are described. An example apparatus includes a computing device (or "tile") including a processing unit and a memory resource configured as a cache for the processing unit. The computing device can include circuitry to receive a command to initiate an operation to convert data comprising a bit string having a first format that supports arithmetic operations to a first level of precision to a bit string having a second format that supports arithmetic operations to a second level of precision. The computing device can receive, by the memory resource, the bit string based, at least in part, on receipt of the command and, responsive to receipt of the data, perform the operation on the bit string to convert the data from the first format to the second format.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: A storage controller comprising a processing unit and a memory resource configured as a cache for the processing unit, wherein the storage controller is configured to: control access to a memory device couplable to the storage controller by latching address signals associated with storage of data within the memory device; receive a command to initiate an operation to convert data comprising a bit string having a first format that supports arithmetic operations to a first level of precision to a bit string having a second format that supports arithmetic operations to a second level of precision; receive, by the memory resource, the bit string based, at least in part, on receipt of the command; and responsive to receipt of the data, perform the operation on the bit string to convert the data from the first format to the second format.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first format or the second format comprises a floating-point format and the other of the first format and the second format comprises a universal number format.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first format or the second format comprises an IEEE 754 format and the other of the first format and the second format comprises a Type III universal number format or a posit format.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the storage controller is configured to perform the operation on the bit string to convert the bit string to the second format responsive to receipt of the bit string in the absence of an intervening command.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the storage controller is further configured to receive an interrupt message as part of the command to initiate the operation.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the storage controller further comprises a buffer to receive subsequent data comprising a different bit string during performance of the operation on the bit string, and wherein the storage controller is configured to perform a subsequent operation on the subsequent data to convert the subsequent bit string from the first format to the second format in the absence of receipt of an intervening command to initiate the subsequent operation.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing unit of the storage controller is configured to perform an arithmetic operation or a logical operation, or both, using the bit string having the second format.
8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the storage controller is configured to cause a bit string representing a result of the arithmetic operation or the logical operation, or both, to be transferred to circuitry external to the storage controller in the absence of receipt of an intervening command by the storage controller.
9. An apparatus, comprising: a storage controller comprising: address circuitry to control access to a memory device couplable to the storage controller by latching address signals associated with storage of data within the memory device; a memory resource coupled to an input buffer; and a processing unit coupled to the memory resource, a command queue, and an output buffer, wherein the processing unit is configured to: receive, via the command queue, a command to initiate an operation to convert data comprising a bit string having a first format that supports arithmetic operations to a first level of precision to a bit string having a second format that supports arithmetic operations to a second level of precision; cause a first bit string to be loaded into the memory resource from the input buffer; cause the memory resource to perform the operation on the first bit string; cause a second bit string to be loaded into the input buffer; cause the second bit string to be loaded into the memory resource from the input buffer; and responsive to a determination that the operation on the first bit string is complete, cause the memory resource to perform the operation on the second bit string.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein at least one of the first format and the second format comprises an IEEE 754 format and the other of the first format and the second format comprises a universal number format.
11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the processing unit is further configured to cause the second bit string to be loaded into the input buffer, loaded into the memory resource, and cause the memory resource to perform the operation on the second bit string in the absence of an additional command separate from the command to initiate the operation.
12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the processing unit is configured to perform an arithmetic operation or a logical operation, or both, using the bit string having the second format.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the processing unit is configured to cause, subsequent to performance of the arithmetic operation or the logical operation, or both a bit string representing a result of the arithmetic operation or the logical operation, or both, to be: transferred to the output buffer; and transferred to circuitry external to the storage controller in which the processing unit is deployed in the absence of receipt of an intervening command.
14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the command to initiate the operation includes an interrupt message.
15. A method, comprising: receiving, by a storage controller having a processing unit resident thereon, signaling to control access to a memory device couplable to the storage controller by latching address signals associated with storage of data within the memory device; receiving, by the storage controller, a command to perform an operation involving bit strings stored in a memory device coupled to the processing unit; receiving, from the memory device responsive to the command, a first bit string having a first format that supports arithmetic operations to a first level of precision; performing, responsive to receipt of the first bit string, a first operation to convert the first bit string having the first format to a first bit string having a second format that supports arithmetic operations to a second level of precision; receiving a second bit string having the first format from the memory device while the processing unit is performing the first operation; performing, after completion of the first operation and before receiving an additional initiation command, a second operation to convert the second bit string having the first format to a second bit string having the second format that supports arithmetic operations to a second level of precision.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising buffering, by buffer circuitry coupled to the processing unit, the second bit string prior to performance of the second operation such that the second bit string is available to the processing unit to perform the second operation upon completion of the first operation.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein performing the first operation and the second operation includes performing the first operation and the second operation within a memory resource coupled to the processing unit.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising performing an arithmetic operation or a logical operation, or both, using the first bit string having the second format and the second bit string having the second format.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising generating a logical record corresponding to a result of the arithmetic operation or the logical operation, or both.
20. The method of claim 18, further comprising transferring a result of the arithmetic operation or the logical operation, or both, to circuitry external to the processing unit in response to completion of the operation the arithmetic operation or the logical operation, or both.
21. The method of claim 15, further comprising: requesting, by the processing unit, information stored in an address space of a processing unit different than the processing unit; transferring the requested information from the processing unit different than the processing unit to the processing unit.
</claims>
</document>
