<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/117,G09G3/3208
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PALATIUMCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRAY, DANIEL GORDON
NARBATOVICS, LUCAS ALEXANDER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66332311
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INFORMATION AND PASSIVE BIOMETRIC SYSTEMS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
Information and passive biometric capture systems and methods. The information system includes a housing having a cavity configured to receive tangible items therein. A transparent, touch-sensitive display device is positioned over the cavity and configured such that in response to pixels of the display being black, the tangible items behind the black pixels are visible through the transparent display. A controller is programmed to receive from a remote server an alarm signal, and in response thereto, cause the display to change its state to indicate an alarm condition on the display. In response to receiving an input from the touch-sensitive display, a keypad is displayed, and inputs thereon are communicated to the remote server. The display can also display personal photographs stored in the memory device. A passive biometric capture system includes a chair with pressure-sensitive sensors embedded within areas contacted by a person sitting in the chair to form a unique passive biometric signature for each person and thereby differentiate among different people who sit in the same chair.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information system, comprising: a housing having a cavity configured to receive tangible items therein; a transparent, touch-sensitive organic light emitting device (OLED) display positioned over the cavity and configured such that in response to pixels of the OLED display being black, the tangible items behind the black pixels are visible through the transparent OLED display; a communications module; a memory device; an electronic controller coupled to the OLED device and to the communications module, the controller being programmed to: receive via the communications module from a remote server an alarm signal, and in response thereto, cause the OLED display to change its state to indicate an alarm condition on the OLED display; in response to receiving an input from the touch-sensitive OLED display, cause the OLED display to display a keypad and to communicate inputs from the touch-sensitive areas of the OLED display corresponding to the keypad to the remote server via the communications module; and cause the OLED display to display a sequence of images stored in the memory device.
2. The information system of claim 1, further comprising a direction of movement sensor configured to detect a direction of movement across the sensor, the controller being configured to communicate via the communications module a signal indicative of the sensed direction of movement to the remote server.
3. The information system of claim 1, the controller being programmed to indicate via the OLED display whether a room, an entrance door frame near which the housing is positioned, is occupied by a human.
4. The information system of claim 3, the OLED display indicating that the room is occupied by displaying the sequence of images.
5. The information system of claim 3, the OLED display indicating that the room is not occupied by turning the pixels black so that the tangible items are visible through the transparent OLED display.
6. The information system of claim 2, the controller being programmed to indicate via the OLED display whether a room, an entrance door frame near which the housing is positioned, is occupied by a human, the OLED display indicating that the room is occupied by displaying the sequence of images, and the OLED display indicating that the room is not occupied by turning the pixels black so that the tangible items are visible through the transparent OLED display.
7. The information system of claim 1, the controller being programmed to receive via the communications module from a remote server an emergency alarm signal, and in response thereto, cause the OLED display to change its state to indicate an emergency alarm condition on the OLED display that differs from the alarm condition.
8. The information system of claim 7, the state of the OLED display including an arrow or other indicia indicating a direction of travel to show an evacuation direction of travel during the emergency alarm condition.
9. The information system of claim 1, further comprising a direction of movement sensor configured to detect a direction of movement across the sensor, the controller being configured to communicate via the communications module a signal indicative of the sensed direction of movement to the remote server, the controller being programmed to: in response to communicating the inputs from the touch-sensitive areas of the OLED display to the remote server, initiate an entering timer until the direction of movement sensor detects a direction of movement indicating a movement into a room, an entrance door frame near which the housing is positioned; and in response to the direction of movement sensor detecting a direction of movement indicating a movement out of the room, initiate a departing timer until inputs are detected from the touch-sensitive areas of the OLED display.
10. A passive biometric capture system, comprising: a plurality of arrays of pressure-sensitive sensors configured to be positioned in a chair back of a chair, in a chair seat of the chair, in a left armrest of the chair, and in a right armrest of the chair; a communications module in the chair; a memory device in the chair; one or more controllers programmed to: create a plurality of distinct pressure patterns detected from the plurality of arrays of pressure-sensitive sensors and store the pressure patterns in the memory device, each of the pressure patterns being indicative of seating position of each of a plurality of persons who sit on the chair; determine, based on an output from at least one of the pressure-sensitive sensors, a weight of each of the persons; communicate from the communications module the detected pressure patterns and the weights to a remote server and a unique identifier associated with the chair; and identify which of the persons is sitting in the chair based on a comparison between (a) the pressure pattern detected by the pressure-sensitive sensors and the determined weight and (b) the stored pressure patterns and the determined weights.
11. The system of claim 10, the one or more controllers being programmed to communicate with other furniture items that are each configured to determine a passive biometric associated with persons who interact with the furniture items, at least one of the other furniture items including a bed having in a mattress of the bed at least one sensor used to detect a weight of a person on the bed and configured to communicate to the remote server the detected weight of the person on the bed.
12. The system of claim 11, the one or more controllers being configured to track a person who moves from the bed to the chair based on the detected weight of the person on the bed, the determined weight of the person on the chair, and the pressure pattern created by the person on the chair.
13. The system of claim 11, at least one of the furniture items including a floor mat having at least one sensor used to detect a weight of a person on the floor mat and configured to communicate to the remote server the detected weight of the person on the floor mat.
14. The system of claim 13, the one or more controllers being configured to track a person who moves among the bed, the chair, and the floor mat based on the detected weight of the person on the bed, the detected weight of the person on the floor mat, the determined weight of the person on the chair, and the pressure pattern created by the person on the chair.
15. A system of identifying outlier movement patterns of persons in a space, comprising: passively capturing using passive biometric sensors positions and movements of persons in a space, and associating an identify of each of the persons with a sensed movement or location using the passive biometric sensors; storing data indicative of the positions and movements of the persons in the space; baselining each of the persons positions and movements based on pattern detection from multiple data captures of the positions and movements of each of the persons; detecting an outlier position or movement of one of the persons, which deviates from a baseline position or movement associated with the one of the persons; communicating an indication of the outlier position or movement to a server system over a computer network.
</claims>
</document>
