<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T11/00,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
GEMMEL, ALEXANDER
KLEINSZIG, GERHARD
KUNZE, HOLGER
MAGARAGGIA, JESSICA
WEITEN, MARKUS
Kreher, Björn
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70859583
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ESTABLISHING A THREE-DIMENSIONAL TOMOSYNTHESIS DATA RECORD
</title>

<abstract>
A method for establishing a three-dimensional tomosynthesis data record of a target volume from two-dimensional projection images recorded with a recording arrangement including an X-ray source and an X-ray detector in different recording geometries is provided. During or after a reconstruction step, a deconvolution technique is used for reducing image artifacts of the tomosynthesis data record occurring due to lacking information. The projection images are recorded along a linear recording trajectory of the X-ray source. The reconstruction and the use of the deconvolution technique take place in a plurality of different two-dimensional reconstruction planes that are spanned by the recording trajectory and, in each case, a definition point in the target volume.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for establishing a three-dimensional (3D) tomosynthesis data record of a target volume from two-dimensional (2D) projection images recorded with a recording arrangement comprising an X-ray source and an X-ray detector in different recording geometries, the method comprising: reducing image artifacts of the 3D tomosynthesis data record occurring due to lacking information using a deconvolution technique during or after a reconstruction step, wherein the 2D projection images are recorded along a linear recording trajectory of the X-ray source, and wherein the reconstruction step and the use of the deconvolution technique take place in a plurality of different 2D reconstruction planes that are spanned by the linear recording trajectory and, in each case, a definition point in the target volume.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the recording arrangement is arranged on a C-arm.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the recording trajectory is realized at least partially by a movement of the C-arm perpendicularly to a plane of extension of the C-arm.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein on a rotation of the C-arm, the recording arrangement is moved in a compensating manner along a central ray.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein on a rotation of the C-arm while maintaining alignment of the X-ray source to a central point of the target volume, the recording arrangement is moved in a compensating manner along a central ray.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein after a subsection of the movement of the X-ray source along the recording trajectory with a parallel movement of the X-ray detector, a rotation of the recording arrangement around the X-ray source takes place such that the target volume is situated in an acquisition region of the recording arrangement, and wherein the movement of the X-ray tube along the recording trajectory is continued with a parallel movement of the X-ray detector.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein a deconvolution algorithm of artificial intelligence that has been trained by machine learning and is to be used for the deconvolution, that describes a deconvolution kernel, or that determines an item of deconvolution information that describes a deconvolution kernel and is to be utilized for the deconvolution in all reconstruction planes of the plurality of different 2D reconstruction planes is used.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein a result of a simulation, a scan, or the simulation and the scan is useable as training data for training the deconvolution algorithm.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the result of the scan is useable as training data for training the deconvolution algorithm, and wherein the scan is with a phantom.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein for the simulation, virtual projection images of a known object are calculated, at least one noise effect is added in the context of the simulation, or a combination thereof.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein, on training the deconvolution algorithm, at least one additional optimization condition is used for further improvement of image quality.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one additional optimization condition includes a low pass filtration, an edge enhancement, or a low pass filtration and an edge enhancement.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the reconstruction step takes place on the plurality of different 2D reconstruction planes according to filtered back projection.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the deconvolution is carried out integrated into the reconstruction.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising, after the deconvolution, an adjustment step making use of a proximity relationship between two adjacent reconstruction planes of the plurality of different 2D reconstruction planes.
16. An X-ray apparatus comprising: a recording arrangement comprising: an X-ray source; an X-ray detector; and a controller configured to establish a three-dimensional (3D) tomosynthesis data record of a target volume from two-dimensional (2D) projection images recorded with the recording arrangement in different recording geometries, the establishment of the 3D tomosynthesis data record comprising: reduction of image artifacts of the 3D tomosynthesis data record occurring due to lacking information using a deconvolution technique during or after a reconstruction step, wherein the 2D projection images are recorded along a linear recording trajectory of the X-ray source, and wherein the reconstruction step and the use of the deconvolution technique take place in a plurality of different 2D reconstruction planes that are spanned by the linear recording trajectory and, in each case, a definition point in the target volume.
17. In a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium that stores instructions executable by one or more processors to establish a three-dimensional (3D) tomosynthesis data record of a target volume from two-dimensional (2D) projection images recorded with a recording arrangement comprising an X-ray source and an X-ray detector in different recording geometries, the instructions comprising: reducing image artifacts of the 3D tomosynthesis data record occurring due to lacking information using a deconvolution technique during or after a reconstruction step, wherein the 2D projection images are recorded along a linear recording trajectory of the X-ray source, and wherein the reconstruction step and the use of the deconvolution technique take place in a plurality of different 2D reconstruction planes that are spanned by the linear recording trajectory and, in each case, a definition point in the target volume.
</claims>
</document>
