<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,G06N3/04,G06N3/063,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GRAPHCORE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KNOWLES, Simon
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66381537
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Networked Computer With Multiple Embedded Rings
</title>

<abstract>
A computer comprising a plurality of interconnected processing nodes arranged in multiple stacked layers forming a multi-face prism is provided. Each face of the prism comprises multiple stacked pairs of nodes. Said nodes are connected by at least two intralayer links. Each node is connected to a corresponding node in an adjacent pair by an interlayer link. The corresponding nodes are connected by respective interlayer links to form respective edges. Each pair forms part of a layers, each layer comprising multiple nodes, each node connected to their neighbouring nodes in the layer by at least one of the intralayer links to form a ring. Data is transmitted around paths formed by respective sets of nodes and links, each path having a first portion between a first and second endmost layers, and a second portion provided between the second and first endmost layers and comprising one of the edges.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer comprising a plurality of interconnected processing nodes arranged in a configuration of multiple stacked layers of processing nodes forming a multi-face prism; wherein each face of the prism comprises multiple stacked pairs of processing nodes, wherein the processing nodes of each pair are connected by at least two intralayer links, and the processing node of each pair is connected to a corresponding processing node in an adjacent pair by at least one interlayer link wherein the corresponding processing nodes are connected by respective interlayer links to form respective edges of the configuration; and wherein each pair of processing nodes forms part of one of the layers of the configuration, each layer comprising multiple processing nodes, each processing node connected to their neighbouring processing nodes in the layer by at least one of the intralayer links to form a ring; wherein the multiple stacked layers comprise first and second endmost layers, and at least one intermediate layer, wherein the processing nodes are programmed to operate the configuration to transmit data around each of a plurality of one dimensional paths formed by respective sets of processing nodes and links, each one dimensional path having a first portion between the first and second endmost layers using all processing nodes in one of the faces of the configuration only once, and a second portion provided between the second and first endmost layers and comprising one of the edges of the configuration.
2. The computer of claim 1, wherein the multi-face prism has three processing nodes in each layer, providing three respective faces for the first portion of respective one-dimensional paths.
3. The computer of claim 1, wherein in the at least one intermediate layer each processing node is connected to its neighbouring processing node by two interlayer links.
4. The computer of claim 1, wherein in the first and second endmost layers each processing node is connected to its neighbouring processing node by three interlayer links to enable the simultaneous transmission of data on three one dimensional paths in the configuration.
5. The computer of claim 1, which has been configured from a multi-face prism comprising a set of stacked layers, the processing nodes of each stacked layer having an interlayer link to a corresponding processing node in an adjacent stacked layer and an interlayer link between neighbouring processing nodes in the layer, by disconnecting each interlayer link in a designated stacked layer and connecting it to a neighbouring processing node in the designated stacked layer to provide an intralayer link whereby the designated stacked layer forms on of the first and second endmost layers.
6. The computer of claim 1, wherein each of the processing nodes is programmed to identify one of their interlayer and intralayer links to transmit data in order to determine the one-dimensional path for that data.
7. The computer of claim 1, wherein each of the processing nodes is programmed to deactivate any of its interlayer and intralayer links which are unused in a data transmission step.
8. The computer according to claim 1, wherein each processing node is programmed to divide a respective partial vector of that node into fragments and to transmit the data in the form of successive fragments around each one-dimensional path.
9. The computer according to claim 8, which is programmed to operate each path as a set of logical rings, wherein the successive fragments are transmitted around each logical ring in simultaneous transmission steps.
10. The computer according to claim 8, wherein each processing node is configured to output a respective fragment on each of two links simultaneously.
11. The computer according to claims 8, wherein each processing node is configured to reduce two incoming fragments with two respective corresponding locally stored fragments.
12. The computer according to claim 11, wherein each processing node is configured to transmit fully reduced fragments on each of two links simultaneously in an Allgather phase of an Allreduce collective.
13. The computer according to claim 1, where each link is bi-directional.
14. A method of generating a set of programs to be executed in parallel on a computer comprising a plurality of processing nodes connected in a configuration comprising a multi-face prism; wherein each face of the prism comprises multiple stacked pairs of processing nodes, wherein the processing nodes of each pair are connected to each other by at least two interlayer links, and the processing node of each pair is connected to a corresponding processing node in an adjacent pair by at least one interlayer link wherein the corresponding processing nodes are connected by respective interlayer links to form respective edges of the configuration; and wherein each pair of processing nodes forms part of one of the layers of the configuration, each layer comprising multiple processing nodes, each processing node connected to their neighbouring processing nodes in the layer by at least one of the intralayer links to form a ring; wherein the multiple stacked layers comprise first and second endmost layers, and at least one intermediate layer, the method comprising: generating at least one data transmission instruction for each program to define a data transmission stage in which data is transmitted from the processing node executing that program, wherein the data transmission instruction comprises a link identifier which defines an outgoing link on which data is to be transmitted in that data transmission stage; and determining the link identifiers in order to transmit data around each of a plurality of one dimensional paths formed by respective sets of processing nodes and links, each one dimensional path having a first portion between the first and second endmost layers using all processing nodes in one of the faces of the configuration only once, and a second portion provided between the second and first endmost layers and comprising one of the edges of the configuration.
15. The method according to claim 14, wherein each program comprises one or more instruction to deactivate any of its interlayer and intralayer links which are unused in a data transmission step.
16. The method according to claim 14, wherein each program comprises one or more instruction to divide a respective partial vector of the processing node on which that program is executed into fragments and to transmit the data in the form of successive fragments over the respectively defined link.
17. The method according to claim 16, wherein each program comprises one or more instruction to output a respective fragment on each of two links simultaneously.
18. The method according to claim 16, wherein each program comprises one or more instruction to reduce two incoming fragments with two respective corresponding locally stored fragments.
19. The method according to claim 18, wherein each program comprises one or more instruction to transmit fully reduced fragments on each of two links simultaneously in an Allgather phase of an Allreduce collective.
20. A method of executing a set of programs in parallel on a computer comprising a plurality of processing nodes connected in a configuration comprising a multi-face prism; wherein each face of the prism comprises multiple stacked pairs of processing nodes, wherein the processing nodes of each pair are connected to each other by at least two intralayer links, and the processing node of each pair is connected to a corresponding processing node in an adjacent pair by at least one interlayer link wherein the corresponding processing nodes are connected by respective interlayer links to form respective edges of the configuration; and wherein each pair of processing nodes forms part of one of the layers of the configuration, each layer comprising multiple processing nodes, each processing node connected to their neighbouring processing nodes in the layer by at least one of the intralayer links to form a ring; wherein the multiple stacked layers comprise first and second endmost layers, and at least one intermediate layer, the method comprising: executing at least one data transmission instruction in each program to define a data transmission stage in which data is transmitted from the processing node executing that program, wherein the data transmission instruction comprises a link identifier which defines an outgoing link on which data is to be transmitted in that data transmission stage; the link identifiers having been determined in order to transmit data around each of a plurality of one dimensional paths formed by respective sets of processing nodes and links, each one dimensional path having a first portion between the first and second endmost layers using all processing nodes in one of the faces of the configuration only once, and a second portion provided between the second and first endmost layers and comprising one of the edges of the configuration.
21. The method according to claim 20, comprising executing the programs to operate each path as a set of logical rings, wherein successive fragments of a partial vector provided at each processing node are transmitted around each logical ring in simultaneous transmission steps.
</claims>
</document>
