<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
YEWNO
</assignee>

<inventors>
DINDO, HARIS
GRAMATICA, RUGGERO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69058636
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
STRUCTURING DATA IN A KNOWLEDGE GRAPH
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media for structuring data in a knowledge graph. A data management system determines known concepts that are related to a data snippet. The data management system determines cosine similarity values indicating an intrinsic similarity between the data snippet and the known concepts, as well as pertinence values indicating a measure of topical similarity between the data snippet and the known concepts. The data management system determines, based on the cosine similarity values and the pertinence values, that the data snippet is related to a first known concept, and in response, assigns a concept identifier for the first known concept to the data snippet. Score indicating a strength of connection between the concepts added to the knowledge graph are determined and used to derive insights between the concepts.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-23. (canceled)
24. A method comprising: determining, from a set of known concepts included in a knowledge graph, a subset of known concepts to which the data snippet is related; determining cosine similarity values indicating an intrinsic similarity between the data snippet and each known concept from the subset of known concepts; determining pertinence values indicating a measure of topical similarity between the data snippet and each known concept from the subset of known concepts; determining that the data snippet is related to a first known concept from the subset of known concepts based on the cosine similarity values and the pertinence values; and assigning a concept identifier for the first known concept to the data snippet.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein determining the cosine similarity values comprises: generating a first semantic vector representing the data snippet based on values mapped to a set of embeddings included in the data snippet; and determining a first angle measured between the first semantic vector and a second semantic vector representing the first known concept, the second semantic vector generated based on values mapped to a set of embeddings included in a definition of the first known concept, wherein the first cosine similarity value is based on the first angle.
26. The method of claim 24, wherein determining the pertinence values comprises: assigning topics for the data snippet; generating, based on the topics for the data snippet, a first topic vector representing a distribution of the topics in the data snippet; and determining a similarity between the first topic vector and a second topic vector representing a distribution of topics of the first known concept.
27. The method of claim 24, wherein the data snippet in included in a content item that is a document including text, the data snippet being a subset of the text included in the document.
28. The method of claim 24, further comprising: identifying a second data snippet; analyzing the definitions of the set of known concepts included in the knowledge graph based on tokens included in the second data snippet to identify known concepts that are related to the second data snippet; in response to being unable to identify at least one known concept from the set of know concepts included in that knowledge graph that is related to the second data snippet, generating a new concept based on the second data snippet; and adding the new concept to the knowledge graph.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein generating the new concept based on the second data snippet comprises: generating a definition for the new concept based on the tokens included in the second data snippet; generating a semantic vector representing the new concept; and generating a topic vector representing the new.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein generating the definition for the new concept comprises: executing a search query based on tokens included in the second data snippet; and generating the definition for the new concept based on the search query.
31. The method of claim 24, further comprising: determining a connection between at least two concepts not included in the knowledge graph; generating a score indicating a strength of connection between the at least two concepts; and adding the at least two concepts and the score indicating the strength of connection between the at least two concepts to the knowledge graph.
32. A system comprising: one or more computer processors; and one or more computer-readable mediums storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more computer processors, cause the system to perform operations comprising: determining, from a set of known concepts included in a knowledge graph, a subset of known concepts to which the data snippet is related; determining cosine similarity values indicating an intrinsic similarity between the data snippet and each known concept from the subset of known concepts; determining pertinence values indicating a measure of topical similarity between the data snippet and each known concept from the subset of known concepts; determining that the data snippet is related to a first known concept from the subset of known concepts based on the cosine similarity values and the pertinence values; and assigning a concept identifier for the first known concept to the data snippet.
33. The system of claim 32, wherein determining the cosine similarity values comprises: generating a first semantic vector representing the data snippet based on values mapped to a set of embeddings included in the data snippet; and determining a first angle measured between the first semantic vector and a second semantic vector representing the first known concept, the second semantic vector generated based on values mapped to a set of embeddings included in a definition of the first known concept, wherein the first cosine similarity value is based on the first angle.
34. The system of claim 32, wherein determining the pertinence values comprises: assigning topics for the data snippet; generating, based on the topics for the data snippet, a first topic vector representing a distribution of the topics in the data snippet; and determining a similarity between the first topic vector and a second topic vector representing a distribution of topics of the first known concept.
35. The system of claim 32, wherein the data snippet in included in a content item that is a document including text, the data snippet being a subset of the text included in the document.
36. The system of claim 32, the operations further comprising: identifying a second data snippet; analyzing the definitions of the set of known concepts included in the knowledge graph based on tokens included in the second data snippet to identify known concepts that are related to the second data snippet; in response to being unable to identify at least one known concept from the set of know concepts included in that knowledge graph that is related to the second data snippet, generating a new concept based on the second data snippet; and adding the new concept to the knowledge graph.
37. The system of claim 36, wherein generating the new concept based on the second data snippet comprises: generating a definition for the new concept based on the tokens included in the second data snippet; generating a semantic vector representing the new concept; and generating a topic vector representing the new.
38. The system of claim 37, wherein generating the definition for the new concept comprises: executing a search query based on tokens included in the second data snippet; and generating the definition for the new concept based on the search query.
39. The system of claim 32, the operations further comprising: determining a connection between at least two concepts not included in the knowledge graph; generating a score indicating a strength of connection between the at least two concepts; and adding the at least two concepts and the score indicating the strength of connection between the at least two concepts to the knowledge graph.
40. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by one or more computer processors of one or more computing devices, cause the one or more computing devices to perform operations comprising: determining, from a set of known concepts included in a knowledge graph, a subset of known concepts to which the data snippet is related; determining cosine similarity values indicating an intrinsic similarity between the data snippet and each known concept from the subset of known concepts; determining pertinence values indicating a measure of topical similarity between the data snippet and each known concept from the subset of known concepts; determining that the data snippet is related to a first known concept from the subset of known concepts based on the cosine similarity values and the pertinence values; and assigning a concept identifier for the first known concept to the data snippet.
41. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 40, wherein determining the cosine similarity values comprises: generating a first semantic vector representing the data snippet based on values mapped to a set of embeddings included in the data snippet; and determining a first angle measured between the first semantic vector and a second semantic vector representing the first known concept, the second semantic vector generated based on values mapped to a set of embeddings included in a definition of the first known concept, wherein the first cosine similarity value is based on the first angle.
42. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 40, wherein determining the pertinence values comprises: assigning topics for the data snippet; generating, based on the topics for the data snippet, a first topic vector representing a distribution of the topics in the data snippet; and determining a similarity between the first topic vector and a second topic vector representing a distribution of topics of the first known concept.
43. The system of claim 40, wherein the data snippet in included in a content item that is a document including text, the data snippet being a subset of the text included in the document.
44. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 40, the operations further comprising: identifying a second data snippet; analyzing the definitions of the set of known concepts included in the knowledge graph based on tokens included in the second data snippet to identify known concepts that are related to the second data snippet; in response to being unable to identify at least one known concept from the set of know concepts included in that knowledge graph that is related to the second data snippet, generating a new concept based on the second data snippet; and adding the new concept to the knowledge graph.
45. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 44, wherein generating the new concept based on the second data snippet comprises: generating a definition for the new concept based on a search query including tokens included in the second data snippet; generating a semantic vector representing the new concept; and generating a topic vector representing the new.
46. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 40, the operations further comprising: determining a connection between at least two concepts not included in the knowledge graph; generating a score indicating a strength of connection between the at least two concepts; and adding the at least two concepts and the score indicating the strength of connection between the at least two concepts to the knowledge graph.
</claims>
</document>
