<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/16,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALESFORCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
KASHYAP, ASHWIN
HSU, STEPHEN
GRAY, WILLIAM VICTOR
SKIBBLE, KYLE COLEMAN
LEMON, STANLEY
PAREKH, REENA
KNELL, LAUREL
ARORA, AVITAL
BERG, ERIC
WALIGORA, PHILIP ALEXANDER
LONG, MARTIN EDWARD
FUNK, CASSANDRA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69884793
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Branched nodes in a workflow
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and devices for defining an action node series at a database system are described. In some examples, the workflow may include one or more nodes are associated with an action. When executed, the workflow may produce an outcome based on the occurrence of an event or parameter associated with the one or more nodes. In some examples, the workflow may include one or more branch nodes. A branch node may include logic such that, when the workflow is executed, the logic selects a particular workflow path that includes its own specific nodes. The path may be selected based on the occurrence of an event or a value of one or more parameters. Thus, when a workflow including one or more branch nodes is executed, the outcome of the workflow may be based on the occurrence of the event or the value of the parameter.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for defining an action node series at a database system, comprising: assigning a plurality of nodes to the action node series, wherein each node of the action node series corresponds to an action and a set of metadata associated with the action; defining at least one node of the action node series as a branch node, wherein the branch node defines a plurality of branches that each includes a subset of nodes, and wherein each node of the subset comprises at least one different action, at least one different set of metadata associated with a same action, or both, and wherein the branch node includes programed logic for selecting a branch of the action node series based at least in part on an occurrence of an event, a value of a parameter, or both; and executing the action node series on the database system, wherein an outcome of the action node series is based at least in part on the occurrence of the event or the value of the parameter.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving information indicative of the occurrence of the event or the value of the parameter from a system that is separate from the database system.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: executing the action node series for a plurality of occurrences, wherein the action node series proceeds along a branch of the plurality of branches for a first subset of the plurality of occurrences, and wherein the action node series proceeds along a second branch of the plurality of branches for a second subset of the plurality of occurrences.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: determining a relationship between an outcome set of the first and second subsets of the plurality of occurrences and the first and second branches of the plurality of branches.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: recommending either the first branch or the second branch to a user of the action node series based at least part on the determining.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the programmed logic is configured for declarative programming.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the action comprises making a phone call, sending an electronic message, waiting a predetermined amount of time, exiting the action node series, or a combination thereof.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of metadata associated with the action comprises an identity of a person associated with the action, contact information associated with the person associated with the action, a template of text associated with the action, a duration associated with the action, or a combination thereof.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the occurrence of the event comprises whether a phone call was returned, whether an electronic message was returned, whether a user engaged with electronic customer material, or a combination thereof
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one different action associated with the nodes corresponding to each of the plurality of branches is configurable.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one different action is configurable based at least in part on a portion of the action node series on the database system being executed.
12. An apparatus for defining an action node series at a database system, comprising: a processor, memory in electronic communication with the processor; and instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: assign a plurality of nodes to the action node series, wherein each node of the action node series corresponds to an action and a set of metadata associated with the action; define at least one node of the action node series as a branch node, wherein the branch node defines a plurality of branches that each includes a subset of nodes, and wherein each node of the subset comprises at least one different action, at least one different set of metadata associated with a same action, or both, and wherein the branch node includes programed logic for selecting a branch of the action node series based at least in part on an occurrence of an event, a value of a parameter, or both; and execute the action node series on the database system, wherein an outcome of the action node series is based at least in part on the occurrence of the event or the value of the parameter.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: receive information indicative of the occurrence of the event or the value of the parameter from a system that is separate from the database system.
14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: execute the action node series for a plurality of occurrences, wherein the action node series proceeds along a branch of the plurality of branches for a first subset of the plurality of occurrences, and wherein the action node series proceeds along a second branch of the plurality of branches for a second subset of the plurality of occurrences.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: determine a relationship between an outcome set of the first and second subsets of the plurality of occurrences and the first and second branches of the plurality of branches.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: recommend either the first branch or the second branch to a user of the action node series based at least part on the determining.
17. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the programmed logic is configured for declarative programming.
18. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the action comprises making a phone call, sending an electronic message, waiting a predetermined amount of time, exiting the action node series, or a combination thereof.
19. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the set of metadata associated with the action comprises an identity of a person associated with the action, contact information associated with the person associated with the action, a template of text associated with the action, a duration associated with the action, or a combination thereof.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing code for defining an action node series at a database system, the code comprising instructions executable by a processor to: assign a plurality of nodes to the action node series, wherein each node of the action node series corresponds to an action and a set of metadata associated with the action; define at least one node of the action node series as a branch node, wherein the branch node defines a plurality of branches that each includes a subset of nodes, and wherein each node of the subset comprises at least one different action, at least one different set of metadata associated with a same action, or both, and wherein the branch node includes programed logic for selecting a branch of the action node series based at least in part on an occurrence of an event, a value of a parameter, or both; and execute the action node series on the database system, wherein an outcome of the action node series is based at least in part on the occurrence of the event or the value of the parameter.
</claims>
</document>
