<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N3/04,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WALMART APOLLO
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAGNANI ALESSANDRO
KANDASWAMY, VENKATESH
CHAUDHURI, ABON
AHMADI, BEHZAD
KOKKULA, SAMRAT
STANLEY, THEBAN
GANDHI, SHREYANSH PRAKASH
OVENC, OMER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71731506
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for detecting content in images using neural network architectures
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods including one or more processing modules and one or more non-transitory storage modules storing computing instructions configured to run on the one or more processing modules and perform acts of: receiving an image at a first-level analysis component comprising a first neural network structure; analyzing, using the first neural network structure of the first-level analysis component, the image to determine an image category associated with the image; selecting at least one second-level analysis component that is associated with the image category to analyze the image; analyzing, using a second neural network structure associated with the at least one second-level analysis component that was selected, the image to determine whether the image includes non-compliant content; and in response to determining that the image includes non-compliant content, executing a corrective measure. Other embodiments are disclosed herein.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media storing computing instructions configured to run on the one or more processors and perform acts of: receiving an image at a first-level analysis component comprising a first neural network structure; analyzing, using the first neural network structure of the first-level analysis component, the image to determine an image category associated with the image; selecting at least one second-level analysis component that is associated with the image category to analyze the image; analyzing, using a second neural network structure associated with the at least one second-level analysis component that was selected, the image to determine whether the image includes non-compliant content; and in response to determining that the image includes non-compliant content, executing a corrective measure.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein: the first neural network structure of the first-level analysis component comprises a first neural network that is trained to determine the image category of the image.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein: the second neural network structure associated with the at least one second-level analysis component comprises at least one second neural network that is trained to detect and classify the non-compliant content in the image.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein: a plurality of second-level analysis components are available for analyzing the image, wherein the plurality of second-level analysis components comprise the at least one second-level analysis component; and each of the plurality of second-level analysis components comprises a corresponding neural network structure that is trained to identify a separate category of non-compliant content.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein: the first-level analysis component is configured to select the image category for the image from a plurality of image categories; each of the plurality of image categories is associated with one or more of the plurality of second-level analysis components; and the at least one second-level analysis component is selected based on associations between the plurality of image categories and the plurality of second-level analysis components.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein: the plurality of second-level analysis components is capable of detecting whether images include non-compliant content that is designated as being non-compliant; the images comprise the image; and the non-compliant content comprises categories pertaining to at least one of: an assault weapon; sexually explicit content; racially inappropriate content; or nudity.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein executing the corrective measure includes one or more of: removing the image from a database; preventing the image from being published on a website; flagging the image for manual review; deleting the image; removing the non-compliant content from the image; or annotating the image to block the non-compliant content.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein: the at least one second-level analysis component is selected based on detector correlation data that associates the image category with the at least one second-level analysis component.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein: the at least one second-level analysis component is trained using a set of training images; and the set of training images is compiled using one or more of: data augmentation techniques or computer vision techniques.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein: the image is associated with a website provided by an electronic platform; and the first-level analysis component and the second-level analysis component analyze the image to determine whether the image should be published on the website.
11. A method being implemented via execution of computing instructions configured to run at one or more processors and configured to be stored at one or more non-transitory computer-readable mediums, the method comprising: receiving an image at a first-level analysis component comprising a first neural network structure; analyzing, using the first neural network structure of the first-level analysis component, the image to determine an image category associated with the image; selecting at least one second-level analysis component that is associated with the image category to analyze the image; analyzing, using a second neural network structure associated with the at least one second-level analysis component that was selected, the image to determine whether the image includes non-compliant content; and in response to determining that the image includes non-compliant content, executing a corrective measure.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first neural network structure of the first-level analysis component comprises a first neural network that is trained to determine the image category of the image.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the second neural network structure associated with the at least one second-level analysis component comprises at least one second neural network that is trained to detect and classify the non-compliant content in the image.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein: a plurality of second-level analysis components are available for analyzing the image, wherein the plurality of second-level analysis components comprise the at least one second-level analysis component; and each of the plurality of second-level analysis components comprises a corresponding neural network structure that is trained to identify a separate category of non-compliant content.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein: the first-level analysis component is configured to select the image category for the image from a plurality of image categories; each of the plurality of image categories is associated with one or more of the plurality of second-level analysis components; and the at least one second-level analysis component is selected based on associations between the plurality of image categories and the plurality of second-level analysis components.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein: the plurality of second-level analysis components is capable of detecting whether images include non-compliant content that is designated as being non-compliant; the images comprise the image; and the non-compliant content comprises categories pertaining to at least one of: an assault weapon; sexually explicit content; racially inappropriate content; or nudity.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein executing the corrective measure includes one or more of: removing the image from a database; preventing the image from being published on a website; flagging the image for manual review; deleting the image; removing the non-compliant content from the image; or annotating the image to block the non-compliant content.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein: the at least one second-level analysis component is selected based on detector correlation data that associates the image category with the at least one second-level analysis component.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein: the at least one second-level analysis component is trained using a set of training images; and the set of training images is compiled using one or more of: data augmentation techniques or computer vision techniques.
20. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable medium including instructions for causing a computer to: receive an image at a first-level analysis component comprising a first neural network structure; analyze, using the first neural network structure of the first-level analysis component, the image to determine an image category associated with the image; select at least one second-level analysis component that is associated with the image category to analyze the image; analyze, using a second neural network structure associated with the at least one second-level analysis component that was selected, the image to determine whether the image includes non-compliant content; and in response to determining that the image includes non-compliant content, execute a corrective measure.
</claims>
</document>
