<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0484,G06F3/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OATH CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BALASUBRAMANIAN, ARUNKUMAR
THADANI, KAPIL RAJ
CREWS, ANDREW JEREMY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70970370
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATING PRESENTATIONS BASED UPON ARTICLES
</title>

<abstract>
One or more computing devices, systems, and/or methods for generating presentations based upon articles are presented. For example, an article may be selected from one or more article databases. Content items may be extracted from the article, wherein the content items comprise one or more videos, one or more images and/or one or more social media posts. Text of the article may be analyzed to generate a plurality of text segments. A presentation, comprising a plurality of slides, may be generated based upon the content items and the plurality of text segments. A graphical user interface of a client device may be controlled to display a presentation editing interface comprising a representation of the presentation. One or more inputs, corresponding to one or more edits to the presentation, may be received via the presentation editing interface. An edited presentation may be generated based upon the one or more inputs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving a request to generate a presentation, wherein the request comprises an indication of an article; extracting content items from the article, wherein the content items comprise at least one of one or more videos, one or more images or one or more social media posts; analyzing text of the article to generate a plurality of text segments; generating the presentation, comprising a plurality of slides, based upon the content items and the plurality of text segments; controlling a first graphical user interface of a first client device to display a presentation editing interface comprising a representation of the presentation; receiving one or more inputs via the presentation editing interface corresponding to one or more edits to the presentation; generating an edited presentation based upon the one or more inputs; receiving a second request from a second client device to present the edited presentation; and controlling a second graphical user interface of the second client device to display the edited presentation.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating the presentation comprises: analyzing a first text segment, of the plurality of text segments, to identify a set of entities; analyzing a content items database to identify a content item associated with the set of entities; and generating a first slide of the plurality of slides based upon the first text segment and the content item, wherein the first slide comprises a representation of the first text segment and a representation of the content item.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the content items comprise a social media post, wherein the generating the presentation comprises: determining a type of the social media post; formatting the social media post based upon the type of the social media post to generate a formatted version of the social media post; and generating a first slide of the plurality of slides comprising the formatted version of the social media post.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein a text segment of the plurality of text segments comprises a quote, wherein the generating the presentation comprises: analyzing the text of the article to determine an entity associated with the quote; analyzing a content items database to identify a content item associated with the entity; and generating a first slide of the plurality of slides based upon the quote and the content item, wherein the first slide comprises a representation of the quote and a representation of the content item.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein a text segment of the plurality of text segments comprises a quote, wherein the generating the presentation comprises: identifying a video associated with the quote; determining a transcript associated with the video; analyzing the transcript to identify a timespan of the video corresponding to the quote; extracting a video segment of the video based upon the timespan; and generating a first slide of the plurality of slides based upon the quote and the video segment, wherein the first slide comprises a representation of the quote and a representation of the video segment corresponding to the quote.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating the presentation comprises: identifying a set of entities associated with a first text segment of the plurality of text segments; analyzing information associated with the content items to identify a content item of the content items associated with the set of entities; and generating a first slide of the plurality of slides based upon the first text segment and the content item, wherein the first slide comprises a representation of the first text segment and a representation of the content item, wherein the content item comprises at least one of an image of the one or more images or a video of the one or more videos.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein: an aspect ratio associated with the second client device is determined; and the controlling the second graphical user interface of the second client device to display the edited presentation is performed based upon the aspect ratio.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the controlling the second graphical user interface of the second client device to display the edited presentation comprises: displaying a first slide of the edited presentation; receiving a first input via the second graphical user interface of the second client device; and responsive to receiving the first input, controlling the second graphical user interface of the second client device to display a second slide of the edited presentation.
9. The method of claim 1, comprising: receiving a first input via the second graphical user interface of the second client device while the edited presentation is being displayed; and responsive to receiving the first input, controlling the second graphical user interface of the second client device to display the article.
10. The method of claim 1, comprising: receiving a first input via the second graphical user interface of the second client device while the edited presentation is being displayed; and responsive to receiving the first input, controlling the second graphical user interface of the second client device to display a second presentation associated with a second article.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the controlling the first graphical user interface to display the presentation editing interface comprises displaying a plurality of versions of a first slide of the plurality of slides, wherein the one or more inputs comprise a selection of a first version of the plurality of versions of the first slide, wherein the edited presentation comprises the first version of the first slide.
12. The method of claim 1, comprising: comparing the presentation with the edited presentation to generate an editing report comprising one or more indications of one or more differences between the presentation and the edited presentation; receiving a third request to generate a second presentation, wherein the third request comprises an indication of a second article; extracting second content items from the second article, wherein the second content items comprise at least one of one or more second videos, one or more second images or one or more second social media posts; analyzing second text of the second article to generate a second plurality of text segments; and generating the second presentation, comprising a second plurality of slides, based upon the second content items, the second plurality of text segments and the editing report.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the extracting the content items from the article, the analyzing the text of the article to generate the plurality of text segments and the generating the presentation are performed using one or more computing systems, the method comprising: comparing the presentation with the edited presentation to generate an editing report comprising one or more indications of one or more differences between the presentation and the edited presentation; modifying, based upon the editing report, at least one of one or more architectures or one or more training corpora, associated with the one or more computing systems, to generate at least one of one or more modified architectures or one or more modified training corpora; receiving a third request to generate a second presentation, wherein the third request comprises an indication of a second article; extracting second content items from the second article, wherein the second content items comprise at least one of one or more second videos, one or more second images or one or more second social media posts; analyzing second text of the second article to generate a second plurality of text segments; and generating the second presentation, comprising a second plurality of slides, based upon the second content items and the second plurality of text segments, wherein at least one of the extracting the second content items from the second article, the analyzing the second text of the second article to generate the second plurality of text segments or the generating the second presentation are performed using at least one of the one or more modified architectures or the one or more modified training corpora.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the request comprises one or more settings associated with at least one of: a maximum time-length of the presentation; a time-length of each slide of the plurality of slides of the presentation; or a maximum amount of text associated with the presentation.
15. A computing device comprising: a processor; and memory comprising processor-executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause performance of operations, the operations comprising: selecting an article from one or more article databases; extracting content items from the article, wherein the content items comprise at least one of one or more videos, one or more images or one or more social media posts; analyzing text of the article to generate a plurality of text segments; generating the presentation, comprising a plurality of slides, based upon the content items and the plurality of text segments; controlling a first graphical user interface of a first client device to display a presentation editing interface comprising a representation of the presentation; receiving one or more inputs via the presentation editing interface corresponding to one or more edits to the presentation; generating an edited presentation based upon the one or more inputs; receiving a request from a second client device to present the edited presentation; and controlling a second graphical user interface of the second client device to display the edited presentation.
16. The computing device of claim 15, the operations comprising: determining an amount of activity associated with the article, wherein the selecting the article is performed based upon a determination that the amount of activity is higher than an activity threshold.
17. A non-transitory machine readable medium having stored thereon processor-executable instructions that when executed cause performance of operations, the operations comprising: receiving a request to generate a presentation, wherein the request comprises an indication of an article; extracting content items from the article, wherein the content items comprise at least one of one or more videos, one or more images or one or more social media posts; analyzing text of the article to generate a plurality of text segments; generating the presentation, comprising a plurality of slides, based upon the content items and the plurality of text segments; receiving a second request from a client device to present the presentation; and controlling a graphical user interface of the client device to display the presentation.
18. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 17, wherein the generating the presentation comprises: analyzing a first text segment, of the plurality of text segments, to identify a set of entities; analyzing a content items database to identify a content item associated with the set of entities; and generating a first slide of the plurality of slides based upon the first text segment and the content item, wherein the first slide comprises a representation of the first text segment and a representation of the content item.
19. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 17, wherein the content items comprise a social media post, wherein the generating the presentation comprises: determining a type of the social media post; formatting the social media post based upon the type of the social media post to generate a formatted version of the social media post; and generating a first slide of the plurality of slides comprising the formatted version of the social media post.
20. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 17, wherein a text segment of the plurality of text segments comprises a quote, wherein the generating the presentation comprises: analyzing the text of the article to determine an entity associated with the quote; analyzing a content items database to identify a content item associated with the entity; and generating a first slide of the plurality of slides based upon the quote and the content item, wherein the first slide comprises a representation of the quote and a representation of the content item.
</claims>
</document>
