<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/904,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOWNTON, R. M. KEELAN
Sweeney, Mackenzie
LUCAS, Raymond
DER, Matthew
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73231241
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SCALABLE, INTERACTIVE, COLLABORATIVE TOPIC IDENTIFICATION AND TRACKING
</title>

<abstract>
A topic tracking platform is disclosed that includes a machine-learning model that may be trained to expose topics in a corpus in response to a training table. Because topics are exposed, rather than searched for using existing taxonomies, the sensitivity of a topic tracking platform may be increased, and emerging topic trends may be more quickly flagged. Exposed topics may be automatically labelled, increasing the specificity of the topic tracking platform by overcoming the potential for topic labelling inconsistencies currently experienced in the art. Documents may be scored for each topic using information provided at a token granularity, and the contribution that each token of each document contributes to the topic may be visually represented. In some aspects, mechanisms are provided for reviewing topics of the corpus at varying granularities, including at a topic level, document level or token level granularity.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A topic management platform comprising: a processor; a user interface; a storage device having program code stored thereon, the program code operable when executed upon by the processor to: retrieve a corpus and a model from the storage device based on control input received at a user interface; process the corpus using machine-learning model (MLM) program code, to identify a topic within the corpus, the topic comprised of a plurality of hierarchically organized components; generate a topic map comprising, for each of the hierarchically organized components, a contribution of each hierarchically organized component to the topic; determine a contribution of each component to the topic and to other hierarchically organized components of the topic; and the program code further comprising visualizer program code operable, when executed upon by the processor, to display information related to components at a hierarchical level, wherein information related to each hierarchical level is displayed in a different one of a plurality of hierarchically linked visualizer windows and contents of child visualizer windows are automatically updated in response to selection of a component in a parent visualizer window.
2. The topic management platform of claim 1 wherein the corpus may be processed by the MLM program code to identify a number of topics in the corpus, and the control input received at the user interface includes the number of topics.
3. (canceled)
4. The topic management platform of claim 1 wherein the model is selected from a plurality of models stored in the storage device.
5. The topic management platform of claim 4 wherein the plurality of models includes models trained using a plurality of different corpora.
6. The topic management platform of claim 5 wherein the plurality of different corpora comprise corpora captured over different time periods.
7. The topic management platform of claim 6 wherein the plurality of different corpora comprise corpora captured from different sources.
8. The topic management platform of claim 1 wherein the components includes a suggested topic label.
9. The topic management platform of claim 8 wherein the visualizer program code is further operable to display the suggested topic label to the user, and to modify the suggested topic label in response to user input.
10. The topic management platform of claim 1 wherein the visualizer program code is further operable to visually highlight components in accordance with their associated contribution.
11. The topic management platform of claim 1 wherein the machine-learning model program code includes one or more of a Dynamic Topic Modeling (DTM), Correlated Topic Models (CTM) and Topics over Time analyses.
12. The topic management platform of claim 1 wherein the machine-learning model program code is trained using one or more of a Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA), a Latent Semantic Analysis (LSA), a probabilistic latent semantic analysis, a Nonnegative Matrix Factorization (NMF) or a Hierarchical Dirichlet Process (HDP).
13. A method for topic management includes the steps of: processing a corpus using a machine-learning model (MLM) configured in accordance with a training table to produce a trained model and a training result identifying a topic within the corpus, the topic comprised of a plurality of hierarchically organized components, the result comprising a topic map including a contribution of each of the hierarchically organized components to the topic; processing the training result associated with the topic to determine a contribution of each component to the topic and to other hierarchically organized components; displaying a plurality of visualizer windows, each visualizer window displaying information related to components at a hierarchical level; and automatically populating the visualizer windows with the information related to the topic including populating different visualizer windows with component information of different hierarchical levels.
14. The method of claim 13 including processing the corpus such that the training result comprises a plurality of topics and wherein the step of displaying operates in response to a selected topic of the plurality of topics to display hierarchical content associated with the selected topic.
15. The method of claim 14 including the step of selecting the MLM from a plurality of MLM's, each MLM trained using a different corpus comprised of text data captured from one or different sources and different time periods.
16. The method of claim 15 including processing a plurality of corpus captured at different points in time using the MLM to build an event stream and displaying the event stream for each of the plurality of topics.
17. The method of claim 13 wherein the components includes a suggested topic label, and the method includes the steps of displaying the suggested topic label to a user and modifying the suggested topic label in response to user input.
18. The method of claim 13 wherein the machine-learning model is trained using one or more of a Dynamic Topic Modeling (DTM), Correlated Topic Models (CTM) and Topics over Time analyses including one or more of a Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA), a Latent Semantic Analysis (LSA), a probabilistic latent semantic analysis, a Nonnegative Matrix Factorization (NMF) or a Hierarchical Dirichlet Process (HDP).
19. The method of claim 13 including the step of highlighting components in the components within the visual windows in accordance with a contribution of the component to the topic at a displayed hierarchical level.
20. A topic management platform comprising: a storage device configured to store a plurality of models, a plurality of corpus and a plurality of training results; a processor, coupled to the storage device; model building program code, stored in the storage device and operable, when executed upon by the processor and based upon input from a user to control selective retrieval of a corpus and a model from the storage device; machine-learning model (MLM) program code, stored in storage device and operable when executed upon by the processor to process the corpus in accordance with the model to provide a result identifying a plurality of topics within the corpus, each topic comprised of a plurality of hierarchically organized components, the result comprising a topic map including an entry for each topic and including a contribution of each of the hierarchically organized components to each topic; visualizer program code, stored in the storage device and operable when executed upon by the processor to: analyze the result associated with the topic to determine a contribution of each component to the topic and to other hierarchically organized components; display a plurality of visualizer windows on a display device, each visualizer window configured to display information related to components of a hierarchical level; and automatically populate each of the visualizer windows with the components from different hierarchical levels of a selected topic, wherein the visualizer is further configured to visually highlight components in accordance with their associated contribution to the selected topic.
</claims>
</document>
