<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B1/267,A61B34/00,A61B34/10,A61B34/20,A61B34/37,G06N3/02,G16H30/00,G16H50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STANFORD UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAMARILLO, DAVID, B.
Eng, David
Sganga, Jake
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72515038
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR LOCALIZATION BASED ON MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
Certain aspects relate to systems and techniques for localizing and/or navigating a medical instrument within a luminal network. A medical system can include an elongate body configured to be inserted into the luminal network, as well as an imaging device positioned on a distal portion of the elongate body. The system may include memory and processors configured to receive from the imaging device image data that includes an image captured when the elongate body is within the luminal network. The image can depict one or more branchings of the luminal network. The processor can be configured to access a machine learning model of one or more luminal networks and determine, based on the machine learning model and information regarding the one or more branchings, a location of the distal portion of the elongate body within the luminal network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for localization within a luminal network, the system comprising: an instrument comprising: an elongate body configured to be inserted into the luminal network, and an imaging device positioned on a distal portion of the elongate body; at least one computer-readable memory having stored thereon executable instructions; and one or more processors in communication with the at least one computer-readable memory and configured to execute the instructions to cause the system to at least: receive, from the imaging device, image data comprising an image captured when the elongate body is within the luminal network, the image depicting one or more branchings of the luminal network; access a machine learning model of one or more luminal networks; and determine, based on the machine learning model and information regarding the one or more branchings, a location of the distal portion of the elongate body within the luminal network.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model comprises a convolutional neural network trained to identify branchings within the one or more luminal networks.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model is based at least in part on simulated imagery of the luminal network, the simulated imagery comprising at least one computer-generated image of the luminal network over at least three dimensions, the simulated imagery depicting a simulated perspective from within the luminal network.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the image data comprises video imagery from a bronchial network of a patient.
5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a robotic arm configured to, in use, navigate the elongate body and imaging device through the luminal network, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: access information regarding a target location within the luminal network; and navigate, based on the determined location of the distal portion of the elongate body, the elongate body and the imaging device toward the target location.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the location of the distal portion of the elongate body comprises determining a position relative to a center line of a portion of the luminal network.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the location of the distal portion of the elongate body comprises determining, relative to a fixed reference point, three or more of: a position along a first axis; a position along a second axis orthogonal to the first axis; a position along a third axis orthogonal to both the first and second axis; a rotational orientation about the first axis; a rotational orientation about the second axis; and a rotational orientation about the third axis.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to automatically transmit instructions to display: a first display interface comprising a first set of one or more images from a perspective of the imaging device, the first set of images from the perspective of the imaging device comprising one or more images captured by the imaging device; a second display interface comprising a second set of one or more images from a global-based perspective, the second set of images based on a three-dimensional (3D) scan of the luminal network; and an indication on the second display interface of the location of the distal portion of the elongate body.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein accessing the machine learning model comprises predicting, based on a particle filter, one or more features within the image data.
10. A computer-implemented method of training a neural network to facilitate localization within a luminal network, the method comprising: accessing a three-dimensional (3D) representation of the luminal network; accessing one or more images of an interior of the luminal network, the images depicting branchings of the luminal network from a perspective of an imaging device within the luminal network; determining, based on the images of the interior of the luminal network and the 3D representation of the luminal network, a mapping between each image and a corresponding location within the 3D representation; and setting, based on the mapping, weighting values of the neural network to identify, within image data presented to the neural network, a corresponding branching of the luminal network and a location of the corresponding branching within the luminal network.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of images comprises simulated imagery of the luminal network, the simulated imagery comprising at least one computer-generated image based on the 3D representation of the luminal network, the simulated imagery depicting a simulated perspective from within the luminal network.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of images comprises video imagery from a bronchial network.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising predicting, based on a particle filter, one or more features within the plurality of images.
14. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions that, when executed, cause at least one computing device to: obtain input data comprising a plurality of images illustrating areas within an anatomical region of a body, and process the input data using a neural network, wherein the neural network is configured through training to receive the input data and to process the input data to output localization parameters for the areas within the anatomical region.
15. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the anatomical region is a region of the airways, and the neural network outputs a prediction of which airways are visible.
16. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the neural network is trained using simulated imagery of the airways, the simulated imagery comprising at least one computer-generated image of the airways over at least three dimensions, the simulated imagery depicting a simulated perspective from within the airways.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the anatomical region is a region of airways, and the neural network's output is a prediction of the position and/or orientation of visible airways and bifurcations.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 17, further having stored thereon instructions that, when executed, cause the at least one computing device to particle filter the neural network's output.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the output localization parameters are indicative of a location of an instrument within the anatomical region.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the neural network comprises a convolutional neural network trained to identify branchings within the anatomical region.
</claims>
</document>
