<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L25/03,H04L27/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NOKIA NETWORKS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAOBIANCO, SARA
COSTANTINI, CARLO
GAVIOLI, GIANCARLO
RAZZETTI, LUCA GABRIELE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65763298
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROBABILISTIC AMPLITUDE SHAPING
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus, comprising: circuitry configured, in response to receipt of input data, to transmit a stream of symbols of a constellation to a modulator for modulation onto a carrier wherein a frequency of occurrence of symbols in the stream is dependent upon a probability-amplitude distribution for symbols of the constellation, wherein the probability-amplitude distribution has a kurtosis less than a target value and a shape of the probability-amplitude distribution causes low-amplitude symbols to occur more frequently on average in the stream than high-amplitude symbols.
</abstract>

<claims>
I/we claim:
1. An apparatus, comprising: circuitry configured, in response to receipt of input data, to transmit a stream of symbols of a constellation to a modulator for modulation onto a carrier, wherein a frequency of occurrence of symbols in the stream is dependent upon a probability-amplitude distribution for symbols of the constellation, wherein the probability-amplitude distribution has a kurtosis less than a target value and a shape of the probability-amplitude distribution causes low-amplitude symbols to occur more frequently on average in the stream than high-amplitude symbols.
2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein, for increasing data rates for the input data, the transmitted stream of symbols of the constellation has a probability-amplitude distribution with a constant or increasing kurtosis.
3. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the target value for 64QAM is 1.8.
4. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the target value is a programmable target value.
5. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the probability-amplitude distribution is kurtosis-constrained having a kurtosis conditioned for blind equalization.
6. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the circuitry comprises: a probabilistic amplitude shaping symbol source circuit configured, in response to receipt of the input data, to produce the first stream of symbols of the constellation for modulation wherein a frequency of occurrence of symbols in the first stream is dependent upon a probability-amplitude distribution for symbols of the constellation, wherein the probability-amplitude distribution is a probability-amplitude distribution that causes low-amplitude symbols to occur more frequently on average in the stream than high-amplitude symbols; and a constellation re-mapper circuit configured, in response to receipt of the first stream of symbols, to map the first stream of symbols to a second stream of symbols of the constellation for modulation and to produce the second stream of symbols wherein the second stream of symbols has a lower kurtosis than the first stream of symbols.
7. The apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the constellation re-mapper circuit is configured, in response to receipt of the first stream of symbols, to map each non-overlapping group of N symbols of the first stream of symbols to a non-overlapping group of N symbols of the second stream of symbols of the constellation for modulation, wherein N is greater than or equal to 2.
8. The apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the constellation re-mapper circuit comprises at least one look-up table to map the first stream of symbols to the second stream of symbols of the constellation for modulation.
9. The apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the probabilistic amplitude shaping symbol source circuit is configured to separately define each bit of a symbol, for the first stream of symbols, that encodes an amplitude of the symbol, each binary bit permutation having a different probability.
10. The apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the probabilistic amplitude shaping symbol circuit is configured to perform probabilistic amplitude shaping independently for different polarization or for different real and imaginary symbols or for different odd and even symbols.
11. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, embodied in one or more application specific circuits.
12. An optical communication system comprising: a transmitter comprising an apparatus comprising circuitry configured, in response to receipt of input data, to transmit a stream of symbols of a constellation to a modulator for modulation onto a carrier wherein a frequency of occurrence of symbols in the stream is dependent upon a probability-amplitude distribution for symbols of the constellation, wherein the probability-amplitude distribution has a kurtosis less than a target value and a shape of the probability-amplitude distribution causes low-amplitude symbols to occur more frequently on average in the stream than high-amplitude symbols, wherein the transmitter is configured to transmit the carrier onto which the stream of symbols of the constellation has been modulated; and a receiver comprising a circuitry configured, in response to receipt of the carrier, to demodulate the carrier to obtain the stream of symbols of the constellation and use the probability-amplitude distribution for symbols of the constellation to obtain an estimate of the input data, wherein the receiver comprises a circuitry for performing blind equalization to produce a stream of signals an inverse constellation re-mapper configured, in response to receipt of the stream of symbols of a constellation, to map the stream of symbols to a different stream of symbols of the constellation wherein the different stream of symbols has a higher kurtosis than the stream of symbols.
13. A method comprising: causing probabilistic amplitude shaping by mapping an input data stream to a first stream of symbols of a constellation such that the first stream has symbols of lower energy that are more probable than other symbols; and re-mapping the first stream of symbols to produce a second stream of symbols of the same constellation such that the second stream has a probability distribution of the symbols that is of lower kurtosis than a probability distribution of the first stream.
14. (canceled)
15. An apparatus, comprising: a digital mapper to cause probabilistic amplitude shaping by mapping an input data stream to a first stream of symbols of a constellation such that the first stream has symbols of lower energy are more probable than other symbols in response to the input data stream being random or pseudorandom; and a digital re-mapper to map the first stream of symbols into a second stream of symbols of the same constellation such that the second stream has a probability distribution of the symbols of lower kurtosis than the first stream in response to the input data stream being random or pseudorandom.
16. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein, for increasing data rates for the input data, the transmitted stream of symbols of the constellation has a probability-amplitude distribution with a constant kurtosis.
</claims>
</document>
