<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01J3/02,G01J3/18,G01J3/443,G01N21/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PERKINELMER HEALTH SCIENCES
</assignee>

<inventors>
FARSAD, MAHSA
AIKENS, DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68384709
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Spectrometers and Instruments Including Them
</title>

<abstract>
Certain configurations are described herein of an optical spectrometer and instruments including an optical spectrometer. In some instances, the optical spectrometer is configured to spatially separate provided wavelengths of light to permit detection or imaging of each provided wavelength of light. Improved sensitivities and detection limits may be achieved using the optical spectrometers described herein.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An optical spectrometer comprising: a system comprising an aperture, a collimator, an Echelle grating, and an optical disperser, wherein the system is configured to receive a plurality of wavelengths of light and to provide a plurality of wavelengths of cross-dispersed light; a reflective telescope configured to receive, from the system, the plurality of wavelengths of cross-dispersed light, and spatially separate each wavelength of the plurality of wavelengths of cross-dispersed light from other wavelengths of the plurality of wavelengths of cross-dispersed light, wherein the reflective telescope comprises a primary mirror, a secondary mirror, and a tertiary mirror comprising a concave, aspherical, hyperboloid surface; and a detector that is positioned to receive, from the tertiary mirror of the reflective telescope, and detect, the plurality of spatially separated wavelengths of cross-dispersed light.
2. The optical spectrometer according to claim 1, wherein one of the primary mirror, the secondary mirror, or the tertiary mirror comprises a freeform, rotationally nonsymmetric surface shape.
3. The optical spectrometer according to claim 1, wherein the primary mirror and secondary mirrors have a first field-of-view; and wherein the tertiary mirror has a second field-of-view different from the first field-of-view.
4. The optical spectrometer according to claim 3, wherein the second field-of-view is larger than the first field-of-view.
5. The optical spectrometer according to claim 1, wherein the primary mirror comprises a concave, aspherical, hyperboloid surface, and the secondary mirror comprises a convex, aspherical, ellipsoid surface.
6. The optical spectrometer according to claim 1, wherein the optical disperser comprises a refractive prism and one of a reflective grating or a refractive grating.
7. The optical spectrometer according to claim 1, wherein the optical disperser is positioned upstream of the Echelle grating.
8. An optical spectrometer comprising: a system comprising an aperture, a collimator, an Echelle grating, and an optical disperser, wherein the system is configured to receive a plurality of wavelengths of light and to provide a plurality of wavelengths of cross-dispersed light; a reflective telescope configured to receive, from the system, the plurality of wavelengths of cross-dispersed light, and spatially separate each wavelength of the plurality of wavelengths of cross-dispersed light from other wavelengths of the plurality of wavelengths of cross-dispersed light, wherein the reflective telescope comprises a primary mirror and a secondary mirror with a first field-of-view, and a tertiary mirror with a second field-of-view different from the first field-of-view; and a detector that is positioned to receive, from the tertiary mirror of the reflective telescope, and detect, the plurality of spatially separated wavelengths of cross-dispersed light.
9. The optical spectrometer according to claim 8, wherein one of the primary mirror, the secondary mirror, or the tertiary mirror comprises a freeform, rotationally nonsymmetric surface shape.
10. The optical spectrometer according to claim 8, wherein the tertiary mirror comprises a concave, aspherical, hyperboloid surface.
11. The optical spectrometer according to claim 10, wherein the primary mirror comprises a concave, aspherical, hyperboloid surface, and the secondary mirror comprises a convex, aspherical, ellipsoid surface.
12. The optical spectrometer according to claim 8, wherein the optical disperser comprises a refractive prism and one of a reflective grating or a refractive grating.
13. The optical spectrometer according to claim 8, wherein the second field-of-view is larger than the first field-of-view.
14. An inductively coupled plasma optical emission instrument comprising: a sample introduction device; a torch fluidically coupled to the sample introduction device; an induction device configured to provide radio frequency energy into the torch to sustain an inductively coupled plasma in the torch; an optical spectrometer comprising: a system comprising an aperture, a collimator, an Echelle grating, and an optical disperser, wherein the system is configured to receive a plurality of wavelengths of light and to provide a plurality of wavelengths of cross-dispersed light; a reflective telescope configured to receive, from the system, the plurality of wavelengths of cross-dispersed light, and spatially separate each wavelength of the plurality of wavelengths of cross-dispersed light from other wavelengths of the plurality of wavelengths of cross-dispersed light, wherein the reflective telescope comprises a primary mirror, a secondary mirror, and a tertiary mirror comprising a concave, aspherical, hyperboloid surface; and a detector that is positioned to receive, from the tertiary mirror of the reflective telescope, and detect the plurality of wavelengths of spatially separated wavelengths of cross-dispersed light.
15. The inductively coupled plasma optical emission instrument according to claim 14, wherein one of the primary mirror, the secondary mirror, or the tertiary mirror comprises a freeform, rotationally nonsymmetric surface shape.
16. The inductively coupled plasma optical emission instrument according to claim 14, wherein the primary mirror and secondary mirrors have a first field-of-view; and wherein the tertiary mirror has a second field-of-view different from the first field-of-view.
17. The inductively coupled plasma optical emission instrument according to claim 16, wherein the second field-of-view is larger than the first field-of-view.
18. The inductively coupled plasma optical emission instrument according to claim 14, wherein the primary mirror comprises a concave, aspherical, hyperboloid surface, and the secondary mirror comprises a convex, aspherical, ellipsoid surface.
19. The inductively coupled plasma optical emission instrument according to claim 14, wherein the optical disperser comprises a refractive prism and one of a reflective grating or a refractive grating.
20. The inductively coupled plasma optical emission instrument according to claim 14, wherein the optical disperser is positioned upstream of the Echelle grating.
</claims>
</document>
