<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/30,G06N20/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUNNELAI
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAMMA, SRIDHAR
POLURI, SUMAN
KAMMA, SUJATHA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72236374
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR GENERATING PERSONALIZED ADVERTISEMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
In an aspect of the disclosure, a method, a computer-readable medium, and an apparatus are provided. The apparatus may receive digital data associated with digital media communications. The apparatus may input the textual data into a NLP model. The apparatus may obtain intent data associated with an item as an output of the NLP model. The apparatus may input the intent data into a tagging model. The apparatus may obtain an attribute tag as an output of the tagging model. The apparatus may determine whether the intent data meets a likelihood threshold. The apparatus may determine whether the attribute tag meet a relevance threshold. The apparatus may output the intent data and the attribute tag to an external device upon determining that the intent data meets the likelihood threshold and that the attribute tag meets the relevance threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of advertisement targeting, comprising: receiving digital data associated with digital media communications, the digital data including textual data from the digital media communications; inputting the textual data into a natural language processing (NLP) model; obtaining intent data associated with an item as an output of the NLP model; inputting the intent data into a tagging model; obtaining an attribute tag as an output of the tagging model, the attribute tag indicating a set of attributes associated with the item; determining whether the intent data meets a likelihood threshold; determining whether the attribute tag meet a relevance threshold; and outputting the intent data and the attribute tag to an external device upon determining that the intent data meets the likelihood threshold and that the attribute tag meets the relevance threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the digital data includes user data associated with a set of digital media platforms, the method further comprising inputting the user data into the tagging model.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the user data includes at least one of user credentials associated with a set of digital media platforms, a digital media post identification (ID) associated with the digital data, or a purchase history associated with a user.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: outputting the user data to the external device upon determining that the at least one of the intent data or the attribute tag meet the relevance threshold.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein: the external device includes an advertisement generation platform, and at least one of the intent data, the attribute tag, or the user data are configured for use in generating a targeted digital advertisement by the advertisement generation platform.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving the digital data associated with the digital media communications comprises: continuously scanning, using an application programming interface (API), digital media communication; and extracting the digital data, using the API, upon detecting a new digital media communication.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: enabling the external device to set the relevance threshold, the relevance threshold being associated with one or more of color, brand, model, size, fit, year, or season.
8. An apparatus for advertisement targeting, comprising: a memory; and at least one processor coupled to the memory and configured to: receive digital data associated with digital media communications, the digital data including textual data from the digital media communications; input the textual data into a natural language processing (NLP) model; obtain intent data associated with an item as an output of the NLP model; input the intent data into a tagging model; obtain an attribute tag as an output of the tagging model, the attribute tag indicating a set of attributes associated with the item; determine whether the intent data meets a likelihood threshold; determine whether the attribute tag meet a relevance threshold; and output the intent data and the attribute tag to an external device upon determining that the intent data meets the likelihood threshold and that the attribute tag meets the relevance threshold.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the digital data includes user data associated with a set of digital media platforms, and wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: input the user data into the tagging model.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the user data includes at least one of user credentials associated with a set of digital media platforms, a digital media post identification (ID) associated with the digital data, or a purchase history associated with a user.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: output the user data to the external device upon determining that the at least one of the intent data or the attribute tag meet the relevance threshold.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein: the external device includes an advertisement generation platform, and at least one of the intent data, the attribute tag, or the user data are configured for use in generating a targeted digital advertisement by the advertisement generation platform.
13. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is configured to receive the digital data associated with the digital media communications by: continuously scanning, using an application programming interface (API), digital media communication; and extracting the digital data, using the API, upon detecting a new digital media communication.
14. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: enable the external device to set the relevance threshold, the relevance threshold being associated with one or more of color, brand, model, size, fit, year, or season.
15. A computer-readable medium storing computer executable code, comprising code to: receive digital data associated with digital media communications, the digital data including textual data from the digital media communications; input the textual data into a natural language processing (NLP) model; obtain intent data associated with an item as an output of the NLP model; input the intent data into a tagging model; obtain an attribute tag as an output of the tagging model, the attribute tag indicating a set of attributes associated with the item; determine whether the intent data meets a likelihood threshold; determine whether the attribute tag meet a relevance threshold; and output the intent data and the attribute tag to an external device upon determining that the intent data meets the likelihood threshold and that the attribute tag meets the relevance threshold.
16. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the digital data includes user data associated with a set of digital media platforms, further comprising executable code to: input the user data into the tagging model.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the user data includes at least one of user credentials associated with a set of digital media platforms, a digital media post identification (ID) associated with the digital data, or a purchase history associated with a user.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 17, further comprising executable code to: outputting the user data to the external device upon determining that the at least one of the intent data or the attribute tag meet the relevance threshold.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein: the external device includes an advertisement generation platform, and at least one of the intent data, the attribute tag, or the user data are configured for use in generating a targeted digital advertisement by the advertisement generation platform.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the executable code is configured to receive the digital data associated with the digital media communications by: continuously scanning, using an application programming interface (API), digital media communication; and extracting the digital data, using the API, upon detecting a new digital media communication.
</claims>
</document>
