<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B8/00,A61B8/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, JEONG SEOK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71098098
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM TO MANAGE BEAMFORMING PARAMETERS BASED ON TISSUE DENSITY
</title>

<abstract>
An ultrasound system and method are provided. The system comprises a probe that is operable to transmit ultrasound signals and receive echo ultrasound signals from a region of interest (ROI) and a processing circuitry. The processing circuitry performs a first beamforming operation on at least a portion of the echo ultrasound signals to generate a first ultrasound dataset, corresponding to at least a portion of a first ultrasound image. The first beamforming operation performs beamforming for a subregion of the ROI utilizing an initial time delay as a beamforming parameter. The system applies a deep learning network (DLN) model to a local region of the first ultrasound dataset to identify at least one of a tissue type or density characteristic associated with the local region. The system adjusts the beamforming parameter to use a density adjusted (DA) time delay based on the at least one of a tissue type or density characteristic of the local region, to form a density adjusted beamforming (DAB) parameter and performs a second beamforming operation on at least a portion of the echo ultrasound signals, based on the DA time delay for the DAB parameter, to generate a second ultrasound dataset.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An ultrasound system, comprising: a probe that is operable to transmit ultrasound signals and receive echo ultrasound signals from a region of interest (ROI); and processing circuitry that is operable to: perform a first beamforming operation on at least a portion of the echo ultrasound signals to generate a first ultrasound dataset, corresponding to at least a portion of a first ultrasound image, the first beamforming operation performing beamforming for a subregion of the ROI utilizing an initial time delay as a beamforming parameter; apply a deep learning network (DLN) model to a local region of the first ultrasound dataset to identify at least one of a tissue type or density characteristic associated with the local region; adjust the beamforming parameter to use a density adjusted (DA) time delay based on the at least one of a tissue type or density characteristic of the local region, to form a density adjusted beamforming (DAB) parameter; and perform a second beamforming operation on at least a portion of the echo ultrasound signals, based on the DA time delay for the DAB parameter, to generate a second ultrasound dataset.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further operable to segment the first ultrasound dataset into multiple local regions and, for at least a portion of the local regions, repeat the first and second beamforming operations, applying the DLN model and adjusting the DAB parameter.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the TDB parameter and DAB parameter include different first and second sets of time delays that are utilized during the first and second beamforming, respectively, in connection with a common segment of the ROI.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the first and second beamforming operations are performed on a common portion of the echo ultrasound signals.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the probe is operable to perform first and second scans of the ROI, during which first and second sets of the echo ultrasound signals are received, the first scan performed before the first beamforming operation, the second scan performed after the first beamforming operation and before the second beamforming operation.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the DLN model classifies the local regions to correspond to one of at least two different types of tissue, the types of tissue including at least two of air, lung, fat, water, brain, kidney, liver, myocardium, or bone.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the TDB parameter includes a first time delay value associated with a reference density, the processing circuitry operable to adjust the TDB parameter to form the DAB parameter by changing the first time delay value to a second time delay value associated with a predicted density corresponding to the at least one of a tissue type or density characteristics identified by the DLN model.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the second time delay value is determined based on a propagation time from an array element of the probe to a focal point in the ROI utilizing a predicted speed of sound that is determined based on the at least one of a tissue type or density characteristics identified by the DLN model.
9. The system of claim 2, wherein the second ultrasound dataset is based on second ultrasound signals that are received after adjusting the beamforming parameter, the second ultrasound dataset corresponding to a second ultrasound image.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is operable to segment the first ultrasound dataset into a two-dimensional array of the local regions, wherein each of the local regions corresponds to a different portion of the ultrasound image.
11. A computer implemented method, comprising: utilizing an ultrasound probe to transmit ultrasound signals and receive echo ultrasound signals from a region of interest; under control of processing circuitry: performing first beamforming on at least a portion of the echo ultrasound signals to generate a first ultrasound dataset, corresponding to a first ultrasound image, based on a time delay beamforming (TDB) parameter; applying a deep learning network (DLN) model to the local regions to identify at least one of a tissue type or density characteristics associated with corresponding portions of the ROI in the associated local regions; adjusting the TDB parameter, based on the at least one of a tissue type or density characteristics of the corresponding local regions, to form a density adjusted beamforming (DAB) parameter; and performing second beamforming on at least a portion of the echo ultrasound signals, based on the DAB parameter, to generate a second ultrasound dataset.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first and second beamforming are performed on a common portion of the echo ultrasound signals.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the probe is operable to perform first and second scans of the ROI, during which first and second sets of the echo ultrasound signals are received, the first scan performed before the first beamforming operation, the second scan performed after the first beamforming operation and before the second beamforming operation.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the DLN model classifies the local regions to correspond to one of at least two different types of tissue, the types of tissue including at least two of air, lung, fat, water, brain, kidney, liver, myocardium, or bone.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the TDB parameter includes a first time delay value associated with a reference density, the processing circuitry operable to adjust the TDB parameter to form the DAB parameter by changing the first time delay value to a second time delay value associated with a predicted density corresponding to the at least one of a tissue type or density characteristics identified by the DLN model.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the second time delay value is determined based on a propagation time from an array element of the probe to a focal point in the ROI utilizing a predicted speed of sound that is determined based on the at least one of a tissue type or density characteristics identified by the DLN model.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the second ultrasound dataset is based on second ultrasound signals that are received after adjusting the DAB parameter, the second ultrasound dataset corresponding to a second ultrasound image.
18. A system comprising: memory to store program instructions; and one or more processors that, when executing the program instructions, are configured to: obtain a collection of reference images for a patient population, the reference images representing ultrasound images that are obtained from a patient population having different types of tissue for one or more anatomical regions; and analyze the collection of reference images utilizing a deep learning network (DLN) to define a DLN model that is configured to identify different types of anatomical regions and different density properties within the corresponding anatomical regions.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the one or more processors are configured to analyze the collection of reference images by performing one or more convolutions and up sampling operations to generate a feature map.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the one or more processors are configured to train the DLN model by minimizing a sigmoid cross loss objective.
</claims>
</document>
