<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/20,H05K7/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC IT CORPORATON
</assignee>

<inventors>
VANGILDER, JAMES, WILLIAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69163519
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS OF BALANCING AIRFLOW IN CEILING-DUCTED CONTAINMENT SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
One aspect is directed to a system for controlling airflow in a facility having a ceiling-ducted aisle airflow containment system having a first damper system for controlling airflow. The system includes an input to receive parameters related to airflow in the facility, wherein the parameters include at least one airflow resistance value for a device in the facility, an output to provide output data including at least one setting for one or more controllable devices in the facility, and one or more processors configured to receive the parameters related to airflow, determine airflow values associated with the airflow containment system and based on the airflow values, generate the at least one setting for the one or more controllable devices, including at least one setting for the first damper system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for controlling airflow in a facility having a ceiling-ducted aisle airflow containment system having a first damper system for controlling airflow, the system comprising: an input to receive parameters related to airflow in the facility, wherein the parameters include at least one airflow resistance value for a device in the facility; an output to provide output data including at least one setting for one or more controllable devices in the facility; and one or more processors configured to receive the parameters related to airflow, determine airflow values associated with the airflow containment system and based on the airflow values, generate the at least one setting for the one or more controllable devices, including at least one setting for the first damper system.
2. The system for controlling airflow of claim 1, wherein the ceiling-ducted aisle airflow containment system includes two containment pods, including a first containment pod and a second containment pod, the first containment pod having the first damper system and the second containment pod having a second damper system, and wherein the one or more processors is configured to generate at least one setting for the second damper system.
3. The system for controlling airflow of claim 1, wherein the facility includes at least one cooling device, and wherein the one or more processors are further configured to generate at least one setting for the cooling device based on the airflow values.
4. The system for controlling airflow of claim 3, wherein the at least one cooling device includes a fan, and the one or more processors are configured to generate a fan speed setting for the fan.
5. The system for controlling airflow of claim 2, wherein the first containment pod includes a first pressure sensor and the second containment pod includes a second pressure sensor, and wherein the input is configured to receive a first measured pressure value from the first sensor and a second measured pressure value from the second sensor and generate the at least one setting for the first damper system and the at least one setting for the second damper system based on the first measured sensor value and the second measured sensor value.
6. The system for controlling airflow of claim 5, wherein the one or more processors are configured to determine a first model pressure value associated with the first containment pod and a second model pressure value associated with the second containment pod using a model of the data center, and compare the first model pressure value and the second model pressure value with the first measured pressure value and the second measured pressure value to obtain a comparison result.
7. The system for controlling airflow of claim 6, further comprising a user interface, and wherein the user interface includes at least one control configured to receive input from a user to adjust parameters of at least one model.
8. The system for controlling airflow of claim 6, wherein the one or more processors are configured to adjust parameters of at least one model based on the comparison result.
9. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing thereon sequences of computer-executable instructions for controlling airflow in a facility, the sequences of computer-executable instructions including instructions that instruct at least one processor to: receive parameters related to airflow in the facility, wherein the parameters include at least one airflow resistance value for a device in the facility; determine airflow values associated with an airflow containment system in the facility, the airflow containment system including a first damper system; and based on the airflow values, generate at least one setting for the one or more controllable devices contained in the facility, including at least one setting for the first damper system.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the ceiling-ducted aisle airflow containment system includes two containment pods, including a first containment pod and a second containment pod, the first containment pod having the first damper system and the second containment pod having a second damper system, and wherein the instructions to instruct the at least one processor further include instructions to generate at least one setting for the second damper system.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the facility includes at least one cooling device, and wherein the instructions to instruct the at least one processor further include instructions to generate at least one setting for the cooling device based on the airflow values.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the at least one cooling device includes a fan, and wherein the instructions to instruct the at least one processor further include instructions to generate a fan speed setting for the fan.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the first containment pod includes a first pressure sensor and the second containment pod includes a second pressure sensor, and wherein the instructions to instruct the at least one processor further include instructions to receive a first measured pressure value from the first sensor and a second measured pressure value from the second sensor and generate the at least one setting for the first damper system and the at least one setting for the second damper system based on the first measured sensor value and the second measured sensor value.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions to instruct the at least one processor further include instructions to determine a first model pressure value associated with the first containment pod and a second model pressure value associated with the second containment pod using a model of the data center, and compare the first model pressure value and the second model pressure value with the first measured pressure value and the second measured pressure value to obtain a comparison result.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the instructions to instruct the at least one processor further include instructions to generate a user interface having at least one control configured to receive input from a user to adjust parameters of at least one model.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the instructions to instruct the at least one processor further include instructions to adjust parameters of at least one model based on the comparison result.
17. A method of balancing airflow in a facility having a ceiling-ducted hot aisle containment system, comprising: receiving a plurality of differential pressure measurements from a plurality of pressure sensors each associated with one of a plurality of hot aisle structures; identifying that at least one hot aisle structure of the plurality of hot aisle structures has a differential pressure greater than a threshold level; providing control signals to adjust a Cooling Room Air Handler (CRAH) associated with the ceiling-ducted hot aisle containment system based on the plurality of differential pressure measurements; receiving a differential pressure measurement for a first hot aisle structure of the plurality of hot aisle structures after a CRAH adjustment; and providing control signals to control a first damper associated with the first hot aisle structure.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein one or more of the plurality of hot aisle structures includes a damper, and wherein the method further comprises initially setting the damper of one or more of the plurality of hot aisle structures to a maximum open position.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein providing control signals to control the CRAH includes iteratively decreasing a fan rate of the CRAH until at least one of the plurality of hot aisle structures has a differential pressure less than the threshold level.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein providing control signals to control the CRAH includes iteratively increasing a fan rate of the CRAH until at least one of the plurality of hot aisle structures has sufficient airflow based on differential pressure measurements.
</claims>
</document>
