<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J11/00,B25J13/08,B25J9/06,B25J9/10,B25J9/12,B25J9/16,B60L53/16,B60L53/37
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, WONHEE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67806708
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CHARGING ROBOT AND CONTROL METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
A charging robot includes: a station; a multi-joint manipulator including a plurality of first joints and a plurality of second joints which have rotation axes orthogonal to each other and are connected with each other alternately, the joint manipulator being provided on the station; a charging connector provided on an end of the multi-joint manipulator; a manipulator moving mechanism configured to move the multi-joint manipulator to an outside of the station; a first motor configured to pivot the first joint by a predetermined angle when the first joint is positioned at a set point; a first actuator configured to move the first motor toward the first joint and to connect the first motor to the first joint when the first joint is positioned at the set point; a second motor configured to pivot the second joint by a predetermined angle when the second joint is positioned at the set point; and a second actuator configured to move the second motor toward the second joint and to connect the second motor to the second joint when the second joint is positioned at the set point.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A charging robot comprising: a station; a multi-joint manipulator comprising a plurality of first joints and a plurality of second joints which have rotation axes orthogonal to each other and are connected with each other alternately, the joint manipulator being provided on the station; a charging connector provided on an end of the multi-joint manipulator; a manipulator moving mechanism configured to move the multi-joint manipulator to an outside of the station; a first motor configured to pivot the first joint by a predetermined angle when the first joint is positioned at a set point; a first actuator configured to move the first motor toward the first joint and to connect the first motor to the first joint when the first joint is positioned at the set point; a second motor configured to pivot the second joint by a predetermined angle when the second joint is positioned at the set point; and a second actuator configured to move the second motor toward the second joint and to connect the second motor to the second joint when the second joint is positioned at the set point.
2. The charging robot of claim 1, further comprising a guide configured to guide a movement of the multi-joint manipulator by the manipulator moving mechanism, and embedded in the station.
3. The charging robot of claim 2, wherein the set point is positioned after an end of the guide with respect to a moving direction of the multi-joint manipulator.
4. The charging robot of claim 1, wherein each of the first joint and the second joint comprises: a main body rotating about the rotation axis; one pair of extension portions extended from an outer circumference of the main body longways in parallel to each other; and one pair of connectors formed on ends of the one pair of extension portions, wherein the main body of the first joint is connected to the connector of the second joint, and wherein the main body of the second joint is connected to the connector of the first joint.
5. The charging robot of claim 4, wherein the manipulator moving mechanism comprises: a locking piston configured to be locked into the first joint or the second joint; a moving cylinder configured to insert the locking piston between the one pair of extension portions; a connection piston disposed in parallel to a longitudinal direction of the multi-joint manipulator and connected to the moving cylinder; and a fixing cylinder configured to move the connection piston in a direction parallel to a moving direction of the multi-joint manipulator.
6. The charging robot of claim 5, wherein each of the first joint and the second joint further comprises: a motor connection portion having the first motor or the second motor connected thereto, and penetrating through the connector; a clutch gear rotating along with the motor connection portion and teeth-engaged with an inner gear formed on an inner surface of the main body; and a clutch elastic member disposed inside the main body, and configured to press the clutch gear toward the connector.
7. The charging robot of claim 1, further comprising: a safety sensor provided on an end of the multi-joint manipulator; and a controller configured to stop at least one of the manipulator moving mechanism, the first motor, the first actuator, the second motor, and the second actuator when a person or an obstacle is detected by the safety sensor.
8. The charging robot of claim 7, wherein the safety sensor is movable between a first position further protruding forward than the charging connector, and a second position which is behind the first position.
9. The charging robot of claim 8, further comprising: a sensor guide provided on an end of the multi-joint manipulator and configured to guide a movement of the safety sensor; and a sensor elastic member positioned within the sensor guide and configured to press the safety sensor toward the first position.
10. The charging robot of claim 7, further comprising a camera provided on at least one of the station or an end of the multi-joint manipulator.
11. The charging robot of claim 10, wherein, when a distance between the charging connector and an inlet to which the charging connector is connected is shorter than a set distance, based on image information of the camera, the controller is configured to control at least one of the manipulator moving mechanism, the first motor, the first actuator, the second motor, and the second actuator to connect the charging connector to the inlet regardless of a result of detecting by the safety sensor.
12. The charging robot of claim 1, wherein the manipulator moving mechanism is configured to move the multi-joint manipulator in a longitudinal direction of the multi-joint manipulator.
13. A control method of a charging robot, the method comprising: a position detection step of detecting position information of an inlet of an electric car based on image information of a camera; a control process calculation step of calculating a control process of a multi-joint manipulator having a charging connector provided on an end thereof, according to the position information of the inlet; a connection step of controlling the multi-joint manipulator according to the control process to connect the charging connector to the inlet; a charging step of charging the electric car through the charging connector; and a returning step of, when the charging is completed, controlling the multi-joint manipulator in reverse order of the control process to return the multi-joint manipulator to an original position.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the connection step comprises: a pushing process of moving, by a manipulator moving mechanism, the multi-joint manipulator until one joint of the multi-joint manipulator reaches a set point; a motor connection process of connecting a motor to the one joint positioned at the set point; a pivoting process of pivoting, by the motor, the one joint by a predetermined angle; and a motor separation process of separating the motor from the one joint.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the connection step further comprises a re-pushing process of, after the motor is separated from the one joint, moving, by the manipulator moving mechanism, the multi-joint manipulator until another joint connected to the one joint reaches the set point.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein, when the position of the inlet is changed in the middle of the connection step, a modification control process having the control process modified by using image information of the camera is calculated.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein, when the position of the inlet is changed in the middle of the connection step, the multi-joint manipulator is returned to the original position by controlling the multi-joint manipulator in reverse order of the modification control process at the returning step.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein, when a person or an obstacle is detected by a safety sensor provided on an end of the multi-joint manipulator in the middle of the connection step, the movement of the multi-joint manipulator is stopped.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein, when a distance between the charging connector and the inlet is shorter than a set distance, the movement of the multi-joint manipulator is not stopped regardless of a result of detecting by the safety sensor.
</claims>
</document>
