<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T15/10,G06T15/50,G06T15/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NVIDIA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LUEBKE, DAVID PATRICK
MCGUIRE, MORGAN
Majercik, Alexander
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74103152
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROBE-BASED DYNAMIC GLOBAL ILLUMINATION
</title>

<abstract>
Global illumination in computer graphics refers to the modeling of how light is bounced off of one or more surfaces in a computer generated image onto other surfaces in the image (i.e. indirect light), rather than simply determining the light that hits a surface in an image directly from a light source (i.e. direct light). Rendering accurate global illumination effects in such images makes them more believable. However, simulating physically-based global illumination with offline numerical solvers has traditionally been time consuming and/or noisy and has not adapted well for dynamic scenes. The present disclosure provides a probe-based dynamic global illumination technique for computer generated scenes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: computing an irradiance field probe of a plurality of irradiance field probes placed in a volume of a scene by: computing, for the irradiance field probe, a diffuse irradiance and statistics of a distance distribution, and encoding the irradiance field probe with the diffuse irradiance and the statistics of the distance distribution.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is performed at scene initialization.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the irradiance field probe stores information about a point in the scene.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein at least a subset of the plurality of irradiance field probes are volumes of different resolutions.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein encoding the irradiance field probe includes packing the diffuse irradiance and the statistics of the distance distribution as square probe textures into a single two-dimensional (2D) texture atlas with duplicated gutter regions.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the irradiance field probe is encoded by applying a perception-based exponential encoding to probe irradiance values.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: updating one or more irradiance field probes of the plurality of irradiance field probes based on changes to the scene.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein a select one or more irradiance field probes are updated for each frame of a plurality of frames associated with the scene.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the updating blends results over time.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein each select one or more irradiance field probes are active irradiance field probes of the plurality of irradiance field probes.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein prior to determining the active irradiance field probes of the plurality of irradiance field probes, a placement of each irradiance field probe of the plurality of irradiance field probes is iteratively adjusted as offsets from a three-dimensional (3D) grid over static geometry.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein updating the one or more irradiance field probes includes: generating and tracing a plurality of primary rays from each irradiance field probe of the one or more irradiance field probes, storing geometry for surface hits in a buffer having a plurality of surfels with explicit position and normals, shading intersected surfels with direct and indirect illumination, and updating the one or more irradiance field probes by blending in an updated irradiance and updated mean and variancostatistics of an updated distance distribution for each of the intersected surfels.
13. The method of claim 7, wherein updating one or more irradiance field probes of the plurality of irradiance field probes based on changes to the scene includes adjusting hysteresis based on a magnitude of lighting or geometry changes.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein intersected surfels are shaded by computing multi-bounce illumination effects with diffuse, glossy, and specular transport.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein rough primary glossy reflections and 2nd through nth order glossy reflections are shaded.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein a single self-shadow bias is used to compute the updated irradiance.
17. The method of claim 1, further comprising: shading the scene utilizing the plurality of irradiance field probes.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the statistics include a mean and variance of the distance distribution that is encoded as an average distance and average squared distance.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising: computing an irradiance field probe of a plurality of irradiance field probes placed in a volume of a scene by: computing, for the irradiance field probe, a diffuse irradiance and statistics of a distance distribution, and encoding the irradiance field probe with the diffuse irradiance and the statistics of the distance distribution.
20. A system, comprising: a memory storing computer instructions; and one or more processors that execute the computer instructions to perform a method comprising: computing an irradiance field probe of a plurality of irradiance field probes placed in a volume of a scene by: computing, for the irradiance field probe, a diffuse irradiance and statistics of a distance distribution, and encoding the irradiance field probe with the diffuse irradiance and the statistics of the distance distribution.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the one or more processors are parallel processors that compute the irradiance field probe.
22. A system, comprising: at least one server in communication with a client device over a network, the at least one server for: receiving, from the client device, input data associated with a scene; responsive to the input data, calculating global illumination for the scene including: computing an irradiance field probe of a plurality of irradiance field probes placed in a volume of the scene by: computing, for the irradiance field probe, a diffuse irradiance and statistics of a distance distribution, and encoding the irradiance field probe with the diffuse irradiance and the statistics of the distance distribution; rendering the scene, based on the global illumination; and outputting the rendered scene to the client device.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the scene is associated with a gaming application.
24. The system of claim 22, further comprising: receiving additional input data associated with changes to the scene; and updating one or more irradiance field probes of the plurality of irradiance field probes based on the changes to the scene.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein a select one or more irradiance field probes are updated for each frame of a plurality of frames associated with the scene.
26. The method of claim 24, wherein the updating blends results over time.
27. The method of claim 25, wherein each select one or more irradiance field probes are active irradiance field probes of the plurality of irradiance field probes.
28. The method of claim 24, wherein updating the one or more irradiance field probes includes: generating and tracing a plurality of primary rays from each irradiance field probe of the one or more irradiance field probes, storing geometry for surface hits in a buffer having a plurality of surfels with explicit position and normals, shading intersected surfels with direct and indirect illumination, and updating the one or more irradiance field probes by blending in an updated irradiance and updated statistics of an updated distance distribution for each of the intersected surfels.
29. The method of claim 1, wherein the statistics include a mean and variance of the distance distribution.
</claims>
</document>
