<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61H5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OPTOTUNE
</assignee>

<inventors>
Aschwanden, Manuel
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65904029
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM FOR EYE TRAINING AND USE OF THE SYSTEM FOR EYE TRAINING
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to an eye training system (1) with the spectacles (10) that comprise at least the following components: A frame member (11) configured to keep the spectacles (10) on the head of a person wearing the spectacles (10), two optical assemblies (12) arranged at the frame member (11), wherein the optical assemblies (12) are arranged such at the frame member (11) that when the spectacles (10) are worn on the head of the person said optical assemblies (12) are in front of the eyes of the person, wherein each optical assembly (12) comprises a focus-tunable lens (13) with an adjustable focal length, a control circuit (22) comprising a processor, wherein the control circuit is configured to control the focal lengths of the focus-tunable lenses (13) in response to data (200) received from an external computer or provided by the processor. The invention further relates to a method and a computer program for performing eye training with the eye training system (1).
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. An eye training system with the spectacles that comprise at least the following components: A frame member configured to keep the spectacles on the head of a person wearing the spectacles, two optical assemblies arranged at the frame member, wherein the optical assemblies are arranged such at the frame member that when the spectacles are worn on the head of the person said optical assemblies are in front of the eyes of the person, wherein each optical assembly comprises a focus-tunable lens with an adjustable focal length, a control circuit comprising a processor, wherein the control circuit is configured to control the focal lengths of the focus-tunable lenses in response to data received from an external computer or provided by the processor.
2. The eye training system (1) according to claim 1, wherein the eye training system (1) further comprises a radio module configured to wireless receive the data (200) from the external computer (15).
3. The eye training system according to claim 1, wherein the eye training system further comprises the external computer, wherein the computer is configured or comprises means to wireless transmit the data to the spectacles.
4. The eye training system (1) according to claim 3, wherein the eye training system (1) comprises a computer program stored on the external computer (15) and/or the processor and/or a memory storage, wherein the computer program is configured to cause the external computer or the processor to generate the data causing the optical assemblies to execute a sequence of focal lengths, particularly a predefined sequence of focal lengths to be adjusted at the spectacles (10), particularly wherein the computer program is further configured to cause the external computer (15) to transmit the data (200).
5. The eye training system according to claim 1, wherein at least one of optical assemblies comprises a shutter configured to alter a transmission of the optical assembly, particularly wherein the shutter is configured to adopt a first state and a second state, wherein in the first state the corresponding optical assembly is transparent, wherein in the second state the corresponding optical assembly is optically shut, particularly wherein the shutter is a mechanical shutter, and wherein the shutter is controlled by the control circuit particularly with an actuator arranged at the shutter, particularly wherein the data is configured to control the shutter via the control circuit.
6. The eye training system according to claim 1, wherein at least one optical assembly comprises a first adjustable optical polarizer configured to adjust the polarization of light transmitted by the optical assembly.
7. The eye training system according to claim 6, wherein at least one of the optical assemblies comprises a second particularly adjustable optical polarizer, wherein the first and the second polarizer form the shutter.
8. The eye training system (1) according to claim 6, wherein the first polarizer (18) is controlled by the control circuit (22) particularly with an actuator arranged at the first polarizer (18) for adjusting the polarization of the transmitted light, particularly wherein the data (200) is configured to control the first polarizer (18) via the control circuit (22).
9. The eye training system according to claim 1, wherein each of the focus-tunable lenses is a membrane-based liquid lens, wherein the membrane-based liquid lens comprises a container that is transparent at least along an optical axis of the optical assembly, the container comprising a first and a second face arranged essentially opposite of each other, wherein the container comprises a transparent liquid between the first and the second face and wherein at least the first or the second face of said container comprises a transparent elastically deformable membrane for adjusting the focal strength of the focus-tunable lens.
10. The eye training system according to claim 9, wherein the membrane-based focus-tunable lens is configured to compensate for coma, particularly for coma induced by gravity.
11. The eye training system according to claim 1, wherein the spectacles comprise an actuator system configured and arranged to adjust the focal lengths of the focus-tunable lenses of the optical assemblies, particularly wherein the actuator system comprises an actuator for each optical assembly, wherein the actuator system comprises at least one of: An electromagnetic actuator, such as a voice coil actuator, comprising an electromagnet or an electro permanent magnet; A piezoelectric actuator or a piezo motor; A stepper motor; A magneto strictive actuator; An electrostatic actuator; An electroactive polymer actuator.
12. The eye training system according to claim 1, wherein the spectacles comprise an adjustment assembly for adjusting a distance between the optical assemblies.
13. The eye training system according to claim 1, wherein the spectacles comprise a distance sensor configured to measure a distance to an object in front of the spectacles.
14. The eye training system according to claim 1, wherein the focus-tunable lenses are comprised in a glass or a transparent polymer laterally surrounding the focus-tunable lens.
15. The eye training system according to claim 1, wherein the spectacles, particularly each optical assembly, comprise an imaging device such as a camera and/or an illumination source, arranged such on the spectacles that the imaging device can record an eye of a person wearing the spectacles.
16. The eye training system according to claim 1, wherein each focus-tunable lens is configured to also adjust for astigmatism.
17. The eye training system (1) according to claim 1, wherein each focus-tunable lens (13) comprises a prism for adjusting the light path of transmitted light through the respective optical assembly (12).
18. Computer program for controlling the adjustable focal length of the spectacles of the eye training system according to claim 1, wherein the computer program comprises computer program code that when executed on the external computer and/or on the processor causes the external computer to transmit data to the spectacles and/or causes the processor to provide data to the control circuit that cause the optical assemblies to adjust the focal length of the focus-tunable lenses, the polarization and/or the transmission of the optical assemblies, particularly according to a predefined sequence stored in the computer program.
19. The eye training system (1) according to claim 1, wherein each optical assembly (12) comprises a rigid corrective optical element, such as a lens, particularly a cylindrical lens.
20. A method for performing an eye training with data recorded from the eye training system according to claim 1, wherein the recorded data particularly comprise data recorded with the imaging device according to claim 16, particularly wherein the recorded data are received and evaluated by the external computer and/or the processor, wherein in response to the recorded data, the external computer and/or the processor generates and transmits data to the optical assemblies such as to adjust at least one of: A focal length, a cylinder or a prism of at least one focus-adjustable lens, A shutter state of at least one optical assembly, A polarizer state of the first and/or second polarizer of at least one optical assembly.
</claims>
</document>
