<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F12/0875,G06K7/10,G06K7/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
Wu, Yuanpiao
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62869002
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DOI SCANNING-BASED INFORMATION PROCESSING
</title>

<abstract>
Implementations of the present specification recite DOI scanning-based information apparatuses, methods, and devices. In one implementation, a method includes: scanning, by a user device, a digital object identifier (DOI); based on scanning the DOI, obtaining service information encoded in the DOI; caching the service information within memory of the user device; generating a first service request based on the service information cached within the memory of the user device; sending the first service request to a service server; determining non-receipt of a service response from the service server within a predetermined time duration following the sending of the first service request; responsive to determining the non-receipt of the service response from the service server within the predetermined time duration, generating a second service request based on the service information cached within the memory of the user device; and sending the second service request to the service server.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: scanning, by a user device, a digital object identifier (DOI); based on scanning the DOI, obtaining service information encoded in the DOI; caching the service information within memory of the user device; generating a first service request based on the service information cached within the memory of the user device; sending the first service request to a service server; determining non-receipt of a service response from the service server within a predetermined time duration following the sending of the first service request; responsive to determining the non-receipt of the service response from the service server within the predetermined time duration, generating a second service request based on the service information cached within the memory of the user device; and sending the second service request to the service server.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving the service response from the service server; and responsive to receiving the service response from the service server, preventing generation of a third service request.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: deleting the service information responsive to receiving the service response from the service server.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a retry stop instruction; and responsive to receiving the retry stop instruction, preventing generation of a third service request.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: receiving user-input indicative of an operation for a retry stop control displayed in a scanning user interface; and generating the retry stop instruction based on receiving the operation.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: deleting the service information responsive to receiving the retry stop instruction.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: deleting the service information after a predetermined cache duration.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the second service request comprises referencing the service information cached within the memory of the user device without additional scanning by the user device.
9. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions executable by a computer system to perform operations comprising: scanning, by a user device, a digital object identifier (DOI); based on scanning the DOI, obtaining service information encoded in the DOI; caching the service information within memory of the user device; generating a first service request based on the service information cached within the memory of the user device; sending the first service request to a service server; determining non-receipt of a service response from the service server within a predetermined time duration following the sending of the first service request; responsive to determining the non-receipt of the service response from the service server within the predetermined time duration, generating a second service request based on the service information cached within the memory of the user device; and sending the second service request to the service server.
10. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 9, further comprising: receiving the service response from the service server; and responsive to receiving the service response from the service server, preventing generation of a third service request.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 10, further comprising: deleting the service information responsive to receiving the service response from the service server.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 9, further comprising: receiving a retry stop instruction; and responsive to receiving the retry stop instruction, preventing generation of a third service request.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 12, further comprising: receiving user-input indicative of an operation for a retry stop control displayed in a scanning user interface; and generating the retry stop instruction based on receiving the operation.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 12, further comprising: deleting the service information responsive to receiving the retry stop instruction.
15. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 9, further comprising: deleting the service information after a predetermined cache duration.
16. A computer-implemented system, comprising: one or more computers; and one or more computer memory devices interoperably coupled with the one or more computers and having tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable media storing one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, perform one or more operations comprising: scanning, by a user device, a digital object identifier (DOI); based on scanning the DOI, obtaining service information encoded in the DOI; caching the service information within memory of the user device; generating a first service request based on the service information cached within the memory of the user device; sending the first service request to a service server; determining non-receipt of a service response from the service server within a predetermined time duration following the sending of the first service request; responsive to determining the non-receipt of the service response from the service server within the predetermined time duration, generating a second service request based on the service information cached within the memory of the user device; and sending the second service request to the service server.
17. The computer-implemented system of claim 16, further comprising: receiving the service response from the service server; and responsive to receiving the service response from the service server, preventing generation of a third service request.
18. The computer-implemented system of claim 17, further comprising: deleting the service information responsive to receiving the service response from the service server.
19. The computer-implemented system of claim 16, further comprising: receiving a retry stop instruction; and responsive to receiving the retry stop instruction, preventing generation of a third service request.
20. The computer-implemented system of claim 19, further comprising: receiving user-input indicative of an operation for a retry stop control displayed in a scanning user interface; and generating the retry stop instruction based on receiving the operation.
21. The computer-implemented system of claim 19, further comprising: deleting the service information responsive to receiving the retry stop instruction.
22. The computer-implemented system of claim 16, further comprising: deleting the service information after a predetermined cache duration.
</claims>
</document>
