<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/242,G06F9/448,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRAF, ALEXANDER
WU, SIYU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123955
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CROSS-DOMAIN FEATURING ENGINEERING
</title>

<abstract>
The example embodiments are directed to a continuously expanding cross-domain featuring engineering system. In one example, a method may include one or more of storing predictive features in a cross-domain data store, the predictive features previously used in machine learning modeling in a plurality of different domains, receiving data of an asset included in a target domain and information about an evaluation attribute associated with the asset in the target domain, determining a predictive feature in the received data based on a previously used predictive feature stored in the cross-domain data store which is associated with a machine learning model in a different domain and the evaluation attribute, and outputting the determined predictive feature for display via a user interface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising: a cross-domain storage configured to store predictive features, the predictive features previously used in machine learning modeling in a plurality of different domains; and a processor configured to receive data of an asset included in a target domain and information about an evaluation attribute associated with the asset in the target domain, determine a predictive feature of the received data based on a previously used predictive feature stored in the cross-domain data store which is associated with a machine learning model in a different domain and the target attribute, and output the determined predictive feature for display via a user interface.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to decompose the predictive features into quantitative components of the predictive features and store the quantitative components within the cross-domain storage.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the determined predictive feature comprises a quantitative data element derived from one or more data elements included in the received data.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the target domain comprises an industrial domain where the asset exists, and the previously used predictive feature is associated with a machine learning model used with an asset in a different industrial domain than the target domain.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to identify the previously used predictive feature based on a decomposed structure of the previously used predictive feature.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to predict an optimal subset of predictive features in the received data based on a plurality of previously used predictive features stored in the cross-domain storage and the evaluation attribute.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to build a machine learning model for the target domain using the determined predictive feature which is determined based on the previously used predictive feature in the different domain.
8. The computing system of claim 7, wherein the evaluation attribute comprises one or more metrics against which the machine learning model is evaluated.
9. A method comprising: storing predictive features in a cross-domain data store, the predictive features previously used in machine learning modeling in a plurality of different domains; receiving data of an asset included in a target domain and information about an evaluation attribute associated with the asset in the target domain; determining a predictive feature in the received data based on a previously used predictive feature stored in the cross-domain data store which is associated with a machine learning model in a different domain and the evaluation attribute; and outputting the determined predictive feature for display via a user interface.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the storing further comprises decomposing the predictive features into quantitative components of the predictive features and storing the quantitative components within the cross-domain data store.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the determined predictive feature comprises a quantitative data element derived from one or more data elements included in the received data.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the target domain comprises an industrial domain where the asset exists, and the previously used predictive feature is associated with a machine learning model used with an asset in a different industrial domain than the target domain.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the determining comprises identifying the previously used predictive feature based on a decomposed structure of the previously used predictive feature.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the determining comprises predicting an optimal subset of predictive features in the received data based on a plurality of previously used predictive features stored in the cross-domain data store and the evaluation attribute.
15. The method of claim 9, further comprising building a machine learning model for the target domain using the determined predictive feature which is determined based on the previously used predictive feature in the different domain.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the evaluation attribute comprises one or more metrics against which the machine learning model is evaluated.
17. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing instructions which when executed cause a computer to perform a method comprising: storing predictive features in a cross-domain data store, the predictive features previously used in machine learning modeling in a plurality of different domains; receiving data of an asset included in a target domain and information about an evaluation attribute associated with the asset in the target domain; determining a predictive feature in the received data based on a previously used predictive feature stored in the cross-domain data store which is associated with a machine learning model in a different domain and the evaluation attribute; and outputting the determined predictive feature for display via a user interface.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the storing further comprises decomposing the predictive features into quantitative components of the predictive features and storing the quantitative components within the cross-domain data store.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the determined predictive feature comprises a quantitative data element derived from one or more data elements included in the received data.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the target domain comprises an industrial domain where the asset exists, and the previously used predictive feature is associated with a machine learning model used with an asset in a different industrial domain than the target domain.
</claims>
</document>
