<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/02,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ATCHESON, EDMUND FRANCIS ANTHONY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70727272
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Creating User Experiences with Behavioral Information and Machine Learning
</title>

<abstract>
Automatic user experience generation is described. A user experience system receives input specifying at least one machine learning model to use in generating a user experience for at least one specified user profile. Available machine learning models are identified and displayed for selection by the system based on profile information associated with the user profile(s). An output is generated by applying at least a subset of the profile information as input to the selected machine learning model, and supplies the generated output to at least one different machine learning model, to generate a target outcome for the selected user profile(s). Additionally, the system automatically detects acceptable data input types and formats for a model and translates data as necessary before input to the model(s). Model outputs are then used by an experience generation module to identify digital content corresponding to the outputs and generate user experiences including the digital content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for combining different machine learning models for processing user behavior information, the method comprising: receiving, at a user interface of a computing device, user input identifying at least one unique user profile; ascertaining, by the computing device, profile information associated with the at least one unique user profile; automatically identifying, by the computing device, a first machine learning model that is useable to generate an output using the profile information and additional information not described by the profile information; determining, by the computing device, a second machine learning model that is useable to generate the additional information using the profile information; applying, by the computing device, the second machine learning model to the profile information to generate the additional information; and generating, by the computing device, the output by applying the first machine learning model to the profile information and the additional information.
2. The computer-implemented method recited in claim 1, wherein the unique user profile comprises information describing a user's activity at a single computing device or across a group of two or more computing devices.
3. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, further comprising receiving, at the user interface, user input specifying at least one target outcome to be generated for the profile information and the behavior information.
4. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein the output includes information describing digital content that is likely of interest to the at least one unique user profile, the digital content comprising at least one of an image, a video, text, or audio.
5. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, further comprising generating a user experience that includes the digital content corresponding to information described by the target outcome.
6. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, further comprising displaying, at the user interface, at least one target outcome and receiving a selection of one of the at least one target outcome, wherein automatically identifying the first machine learning model is performed based on the selected target outcome.
7. A system comprising: at least one processor; and one or more computer-readable storage media having instructions stored thereon that are executable by the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: receiving, via a user interface displayed at a computing device, user input identifying at least one user profile for which a user experience is to be generated; determining user profile information corresponding to the at least one user profile and displaying, at the user interface, one or more machine learning models that are each useable to generate an output using the user profile information; receiving a selection of one of the one or more machine learning models via the user interface; generating a first output by applying at least a subset of the user profile information to the one of the one or more machine learning models; displaying, at the user interface, one or more additional machine learning models that are each useable to generate an output using the first output and receiving a selection of one of the one or more additional machine learning models; generating a second output by applying the first output to the one of the selected one or more additional machine learning models; generating the user experience based on the second output.
8. The system as described in claim 7, the operations further comprising identifying the one or more machine learning models based on model metadata describing an input data type, an input data format, an output data type, and an output data format for each of the one or more machine learning models.
9. The system as described in claim 7, the operations further comprising displaying, at the user interface, at least one tunable parameter for the selected one of the one or more machine learning models and receiving user input specifying a value for the at least one tunable parameter, wherein the generating the first output is performed using the value for the at least one tunable parameter.
10. The system as described in claim 7, wherein the at least one user profile comprises a user profile associated with a unique individual user.
11. The system as described in claim 7, wherein the at least one user profile comprises a group of multiple user profiles sharing at least one common profile characteristic.
12. The system as described in claim 7, the operations further comprising determining that the first output includes data formatted differently than an input data format acceptable by the one of the one or more additional machine learning models and translating the first output to the input data format prior to generating the second output.
13. The system as described in claim 7, the operations further comprising monitoring behavior information of the at least one user profile describing an interaction with the user experience and re-training the one of the one or more machine learning models or the one of the one or more additional machine learning models using the behavior information.
14. The system as described in claim 13, wherein the behavior information comprises an amount of time spent interacting with the user experience.
15. The system as described in claim 13, wherein the behavior information comprises an indication of whether a purchase was made after viewing the user experience.
16. A system comprising: means for generating a first output by applying user profile information for at least one user profile as input to a first machine learning model; means for translating the first output to a data format configured for input to a second machine learning model that is different from the first machine learning model; means for generating a second output by applying the translated first output to the second machine learning model; means for identifying digital content based on information included in the second output; means for generating a user experience that includes the digital content; means for monitoring behavior information describing an interaction by the at least one user profile with the user experience; and means for improving an output performance of at least one of the first machine learning model or the second machine learning model by providing the behavior information as feedback to the at least one of the first machine learning model or the second machine learning model.
17. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 16, wherein the first machine learning model and the second machine learning model each include model metadata describing an input data type, an input data format, an output data type, and an output data format for the machine learning model.
18. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 16, the behavior information comprising an amount of time spent interacting with the user experience.
19. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 16, the behavior information comprising an indication of whether a purchase was made after viewing the user experience.
20. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 16, wherein the at least one user profile comprises a user profile associated with a unique individual user or a group of multiple user profiles sharing at least one common profile characteristic.
</claims>
</document>
