<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B1/00,A61B1/005,A61B1/045,H04N5/232,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJIFILM
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAMON, SHUMPEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65438701
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DIAGNOSIS SUPPORT SYSTEM, ENDOSCOPE SYSTEM, PROCESSOR AND DIAGNOSIS SUPPORT METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A diagnosis support system having an image sensor that captures a medical image and a processor configured to capture medical images of which imaging times are different, store any of medical images as representative images, store the medical images excluding the representative images as groups of neighboring images such that each the groups of neighboring images are associated with the representative images, display the representative images in a list on a display device, receive a selection from the representative images displayed in the list, extract a neighboring image for diagnosis from among a group of neighboring images which is associated with a selected representative image, and display the extracted neighboring image for diagnosis on the display.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A diagnosis support system comprising: an image sensor that captures a medical image according to an imaging instruction; and a processor configured to: issue the imaging instruction to the image sensor to capture a plurality of medical images of which imaging times are different; store any of the plurality of medical images as representative images; store the plurality of medical images excluding the representative images as a plurality of groups of neighboring images such that each the plurality of groups of neighboring images are associated with the representative images; display the representative images in a list on a display device; receive a selection from the representative images displayed in the list; extract a neighboring image for diagnosis, from among a group of neighboring images which is associated with a selected representative image, by analyzing the neighboring images on the basis of at least one of exposures when the image sensor captures the neighboring images, or shaking amounts when the image sensor captures the neighboring images; and display the extracted neighboring image for diagnosis on the display.
2. The diagnosis support system according to claim 1, wherein the processor configured to set an imaging timing on the basis of an input of a user's instruction and issues the imaging instruction to the image sensor according to the imaging timing.
3. The diagnosis support system according to claim 1, wherein the processor configured to detect a region of interest from the medical image and issue the imaging instruction to the image sensor according to the detection of the region of interest.
4. The diagnosis support system according to claim 2, wherein the processor configured to detect a region of interest from the medical image and issue the imaging instruction to the image sensor according to the detection of the region of interest.
5. The diagnosis support system according to claim 3, wherein the processor configured to display the representative images in the list on the display device according to the detection of the region of interest.
6. The diagnosis support system according to claim 4, wherein the processor configured to display the representative images in the list on the display device according to the detection of the region of interest.
7. The diagnosis support system according to claim 1, wherein the processor configured to receive an imaging instruction operation from a user and issue the imaging instruction to the image sensor according to the imaging instruction operation.
8. The diagnosis support system according to claim 1, wherein each the plurality of group of neighboring images includes a medical image of which a imaging time is earlier than a imaging time of the representative image associated with each the plurality of group of neighboring images and a medical image of which a imaging time is later than the imaging time of the representative image associated with each the plurality of group of neighboring images.
9. The diagnosis support system according to claim 1, wherein the processor configured to receive a switching instruction for switching the neighboring image to be displayed on the display device and display the other neighboring image instead of the neighboring image which is being displayed on the display device, according to the switching instruction.
10. The diagnosis support system according to claim 1, wherein processor configured to continuously switch and display the neighboring images in the group of neighboring images which is associated with the selected representative image on the display device, and continues to display, on the display device, a neighboring image which is being displayed when a switching stopping instruction is received.
11. The diagnosis support system according to claim 1, wherein the processor configured to display the neighboring image in a display form different from a display form of the representative image.
12. The diagnosis support system according to claim 11, wherein the processor configured to change at least one of a display position, a display window, or a display size of the neighboring image to be different from the representative image.
13. The diagnosis support system according to claim 11, wherein the processor configured to change the display form of the neighboring image on the basis of a user's instruction.
14. The diagnosis support system according to claim 1, wherein the processor configured to display the selected representative image to be distinguishable from the other representative images.
15. The diagnosis support system according to claim 1, wherein in a case where, in a state where one representative image has been selected, another representative image is selected, the processor configured to end the display of the neighboring image displayed at a time point of the selection, and returns a display form to a state where the one representative image is not selected.
16. The diagnosis support system according to claim 1, wherein the processor configured to preserve an image designated from among the representative images displayed in the list and the displayed neighboring images.
17. An endoscope system comprising: the diagnosis support system according to claim 1; the display device; and an endoscope including an insertion part that is to be inserted into an object to be examined, and includes a hard distal end portion, a bendable portion connected to a proximal end side of the hard distal end portion, and a soft portion connected to a proximal end side of the bendable portion, and an operation part connected to a proximal end side of the insertion part, wherein the image sensor includes an imaging lens for forming an optical image of a subject, and an image pick-up element on which the optical image is formed by the imaging lens, and the imaging lens is provided on the hard distal end portion.
18. A diagnosis support method by a diagnosis support system comprising an image sensor that captures a medical image according to an imaging instruction and a display device that displays the captured medical image, the diagnosis support method comprising: issuing the imaging instruction to the image sensor to capture a plurality of medical images of which imaging times are different; storing any of the plurality of medical images as representative images; storing the plurality of medical images excluding the representative images as a plurality of groups of neighboring images such that each the plurality of groups of neighboring images are associated with the representative images; displaying the representative images in a list on a display device; receiving a selection from the representative images displayed in the list; extracting a neighboring image for diagnosis, from among a group of neighboring images which is associated with a selected representative image, by analyzing the neighboring images on the basis of at least one of exposures when the image sensor captures the neighboring images, or shaking amounts when the image sensor captures the neighboring images.
</claims>
</document>
