<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/14,H04N21/431,H04N21/485
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEC LABORATORIES EUROPE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHMIDT, MISCHA
SHAKER, AMMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73016414
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI) ENABLED MULTI-SCREEN VISUAL CUE RELAY SYSTEMS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for simultaneously displaying an external visual cue received at a primary display device on one or more secondary display devices in a distributed presentation system. The method includes displaying original content on a primary display device, detecting an external visual cue on the displayed original content, determining one or more parameters of the external visual cue, the one or more parameters including at least a location of the external visual cue relative to, or on, the displayed original content, and communicating the one or more parameters to one or more secondary display devices that are displaying the original content, to enable the one or more secondary display devices to display a representation of the external visual cue simultaneously with displaying the original content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for simultaneously displaying an external visual cue received at a primary display device on one or more secondary display devices in a distributed presentation system, the method comprising: displaying original content on a primary display device; detecting an external visual cue on the displayed original content using an external camera paired with the primary display device and configured to image the original content displayed on the primary display device; determining one or more parameters of the external visual cue, the one or more parameters including at least a location of the external visual cue relative to the original content displayed on the primary display device; and communicating the one or more parameters to one or more secondary display devices that are displaying the original content, to enable the one or more secondary display devices to display a representation of the external visual cue simultaneously with displaying the original content.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters further including one or more of a color of the external visual cue and a shape of the external visual cue.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more secondary display devices is located in a location remote from the primary display device
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the communicating includes communicating the one or more parameters to the at least one secondary device over the Internet or a wireless network.
5. The method according to claim 1, further including communicating a cue identifier with the one or more parameters, wherein the cue identifier identifies the primary display device on which the external visual cue was detected.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the detecting includes detecting a first appearance of the external visual cue and detecting movements of the external visual cue on the displayed original content.
7. (canceled)
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the detecting includes: acquiring, from the external camera, an image of a display screen of the primary display device, wherein the external visual cue is overlaying the displayed original content on the display screen; and comparing the acquired image with the original content to identify the external visual cue.
9. The method according to claim 8, further including: receiving one or more parameters of a second external visual cue from one of the one or more secondary display devices, the one or more parameters of the second external visual cue including at least a location of the second external visual cue relative to the displayed original content; and displaying a representation of the second external visual cue over the original content displayed by the primary display device.
10. A visual cue detection and characterization component in a distributed presentation system that includes a primary display device that displays original content from a content source, an external camera paired with the primary display device and configured to acquire an image of the original content displayed on the primary display device, and one or more secondary display devices, each of the one or more secondary display devices displaying the original content, wherein the visual cue detection and characterization component includes one or more processors and a transceiver, wherein the visual cue detection and characterization component is configured to: receive, using the transceiver, the image of the original content from the external camera; process, using the one or more processors, the image of the original content to detect an external visual cue on the original content displayed on the primary display device and determine one or more parameters of the external visual cue, the one or more parameters including at least a location of the external visual cue relative to the original content displayed on the primary display device; and communicate, using the transceiver, the one or more parameters to the one or more secondary display devices that are displaying the original content, to enable the one or more secondary display devices to display a representation of the external visual cue simultaneously with displaying the original content.
11. The detection and characterization component of claim 10, wherein the one or more processors detect an external visual cue by comparing the image with the original content to identify the external visual cue, wherein the external visual cue is overlaying the original content displayed on the display screen.
12. The detection and characterization component of claim 10, wherein the external visual cue is overlaying the original content displayed on the display screen.
13. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon which, after execution by one or more processors, provide for execution of a method comprising: displaying original content on a primary display device; detecting an external visual cue on the displayed original content using an external camera paired with the primary display device and configured to image the original content displayed on the primary display device; determining one or more parameters of the external visual cue, the one or more parameters including at least a location of the external visual cue relative to the original content displayed on the primary display device; and communicating the one or more parameters to one or more secondary display devices that are displaying the original content, to enable the one or more secondary display devices to display a representation of the external visual cue simultaneously with displaying the original content.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium according to claim 13, wherein the external visual cue is overlaying the displayed original content on the display screen.
15. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium according to claim 13, wherein the detecting includes: acquiring an image of a display screen of the primary display device, wherein the external visual cue is overlaying the displayed original content on the display screen; and comparing the acquired image with the original content to identify the external visual cue.
</claims>
</document>
