<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F24F11/49,F24F11/54,F24F11/56,F24F11/64,F24F11/72,G01N33/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AIRVIZ
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARTLEY, CHRIS
GULYÁS, DÖMÖTÖR
LONGO, SARA
NOURBAKHSH, ILLAH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71516581
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROACTIVE BUILDING AIR QUALITY MANAGEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
An air quality management system comprises a plurality of air quality sensors to sense air quality within a building, a plurality of air cleaning devices, and a computer system in communication with the plurality of air quality sensors and the plurality of air cleaning devices. The plurality of air quality sensors is located at a particular location within the building. The computer system determines a correlational model of air quality for the building that indicates a correlational relationship between the sensed air quality, a spatial parameter, a temporal parameter, and operation of the air cleaning devices. The computer system controls the plurality of air cleaning devices to implement an air quality control policy based on one or more air quality management parameters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An air quality control system for a building, the air quality control system comprising: a plurality of air quality sensors to sense air quality and located at different locations within the building; a plurality of air quality affecting devices; a plurality of device sensors, each of the plurality of device sensors associated with one or more of the plurality of air quality affecting devices; and a computer system in communication with the plurality of air quality sensors and the plurality of air quality affecting devices, the computer system comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor, the memory storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the computer system to: receive air quality measurements from the plurality of air quality sensors; determine states of the plurality of air quality affecting devices from sensor data from the plurality of device sensors; determine spatial relationships between the plurality of air quality sensors, the plurality of air-quality affecting devices, and occupants of the building; estimate a future air quality of the building based upon the received air quality measurements and the determined spatial relationships; and control the air quality affecting devices to affect air quality in the building according to the estimated future air quality.
2. The air quality control system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of air quality affecting devices comprise an air cleaning device.
3. The air quality control system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of air quality affecting devices comprise an air contaminating device.
4. The air quality control system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of device sensors comprise a device sensor that is configured to receive a state of an air quality affecting device from a device controller associated with the air quality affecting device.
5. The air quality control system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of device sensors comprise a device sensor that is integrated into an air quality affecting device.
6. The air quality control system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of device sensors comprise a device sensor that is configured to sense a state of an air quality affecting device based on measurements of the air quality affecting device.
7. The air quality control system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the computer system to estimate the future air quality of the building via a machine-learning system.
8. The air quality control system of claim 7, wherein the machine-learning system comprises a recurrent neural network trained to output the future air quality of the building based upon the received air quality measurements and the determined spatial relationships as inputs thereto.
9. The air quality control system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of air quality affecting devices comprise at least one of a window, a fireplace, an air purifier, an air filter, a kitchen device, an appliance, a vacuum, a fan, an HVAC system, or a door.
10. A back-end computer system for controlling air quality of a building, the back-end computer system comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor, the memory storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the computer system to: receive air quality measurements from a plurality of air quality sensors associated with the building; determine states of a plurality of air quality affecting devices associated with the building from sensor data from a plurality of device sensors associated with the plurality of air quality affecting devices; determine spatial relationships between the plurality of air quality sensors, the plurality of air-quality affecting devices, and occupants of the building; estimate a future air quality of the building based upon the received air quality measurements and the determined spatial relationships; and control the air quality affecting devices to affect air quality in the building according to the estimated future air quality.
11. A computer-implemented method for controlling air quality of a building, the method comprising: receiving, by a computer system, air quality measurements from a plurality of air quality sensors associated with the building; determining, by the computer system, states of a plurality of air quality affecting devices associated with the building from sensor data from a plurality of device sensors associated with the plurality of air quality affecting devices; determining, by the computer system, spatial relationships between the plurality of air quality sensors, the plurality of air-quality affecting devices, and occupants of the building; estimating, by the computer system, a future air quality of the building based upon the received air quality measurements and the determined spatial relationships; and controlling, by the computer system, the air quality affecting devices to affect air quality in the building according to the estimated future air quality.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the plurality of air quality affecting devices comprise an air cleaning device.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the plurality of air quality affecting devices comprise an air contaminating device.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the plurality of device sensors comprise a device sensor that is configured to receive a state of an air quality affecting device from a device controller associated with the air quality affecting device.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the plurality of device sensors comprise a device sensor that is integrated into an air quality affecting device.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the plurality of device sensors comprise a device sensor that is configured to sense a state of an air quality affecting device based on measurements of the air quality affecting device.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the computer system is programmed to implement a machine learning system to estimate the future air quality of the building.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the machine-learning system comprises a recurrent neural network trained to output the future air quality of the building based upon the received air quality measurements and the determined spatial relationships as inputs thereto.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the plurality of air quality affecting devices comprise at least one of a window, a fireplace, an air purifier, an air filter, a kitchen device, an appliance, a vacuum, a fan, an HVAC system, or a door.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising: sensing, by the plurality of air quality sensors, the air quality measurements, wherein each of the plurality of air quality sensors is located at a different location within the building and each of the plurality of air quality sensors is in communication with the computer system; sensing, by the plurality of device sensors, the states of the plurality of air quality affecting devices, wherein each of the plurality of devices sensors are in communication with the computer system; and sensing, by the computer system, locations of the occupants of the building via one or more motion sensors.
</claims>
</document>
