<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60H1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAIC INNOVATION CENTER
</assignee>

<inventors>
JIANG FAN
WANG, DALI
MIDDLETON, RYAN SCOTT
WOODS, MATTHEW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69179694
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PERSONALIZED ADAPTIVE HVAC SYSTEM CONTROL METHODS AND DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for controlling a HVAC system of a vehicle. An exemplary method may comprise: collecting data describing environmental measurements and one or more states of the HVAC system; predicting one or more target values by inputting the collected data into one or more inference models that include a personal inference model, wherein the personal inference model is used to predict a personal target value for the vehicle or a user of the vehicle; and outputting the one or more target values including the personal target value for the vehicle or the user of the vehicle to control the HVAC system of the vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for controlling a HVAC system of a vehicle, comprising: collecting data describing environmental measurements and one or more states of the HVAC system; predicting one or more target values by inputting the collected data into one or more inference models that include a personal inference model, wherein the personal inference model is used to predict a personal target value for the vehicle or a user of the vehicle; and outputting the one or more target values including the personal target value for the vehicle or the user of the vehicle to control the HVAC system of the vehicle.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more inference models comprise a general inference model used to obtain a general target value for an average vehicle or an average user of vehicles, and wherein predicting one or more target values further comprises: predicting the general target value for the average vehicle or the average user of vehicles by inputting the collected data into the general inference model, wherein the personal target value is a personal target adjustment indicating a difference of preference between the vehicle and the average vehicle or a difference of preference between the user of the vehicle and the average user of vehicles.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprises: combining the general target value and the personal target adjustment to obtain the one or more target values to control the HVAC system of the vehicle.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the HVAC system comprises an HVAC auto unit for controlling the HVAC system, and wherein the one or more inference models comprise a HVAC auto unit inference model used to predict a general target value of the HVAC auto unit, wherein the personal target value is a personal target adjustment that indicates a difference between the general target value of the HVAC auto unit and a preferred target value of the user of the vehicle upon the HVAC auto unit.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprises: combining the general target value of the HVAC auto unit and the personal target adjustment to obtain the one or more target values to control the HVAC system of the vehicle.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprises: collecting historical data describing environmental measurements and one or more states of the HVAC system associated with the vehicle or the user of the vehicle; and generating the personal inference model for the vehicle or the user of the vehicle based on the historical data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more inference models are trained by using the data describing environmental measurements and one or more states of the HVAC system collected at a current time, lagged target values inferred at one or more previous times, and a current target value at the current time as training data.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the current target value at the current time is set by the user or controlled by a HVAC controller of the HVAC system.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein collecting data describing environmental measurements and one or more states of the HVAC system comprises: collecting additional data comprising one or more of vehicle state data describing one or more states of the vehicle, user identity data describing an identity of the user, user status data describing status of the user, user demographic data describing demographic information associated with the user, and external data describing external information.
10. A system for controlling a HVAC system of a vehicle, comprising a processor; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the system to perform a method for controlling a HVAC system of a vehicle, the method comprising: collecting data describing environmental measurements and one or more states of the HVAC system; predicting one or more target values by inputting the collected data into one or more inference models that include a personal inference model, wherein the personal inference model is used to predict a personal target value for the vehicle or a user of the vehicle; and outputting the one or more target values including the personal target value for the vehicle or the user of the vehicle to control the HVAC system of the vehicle.
11. The system of claim 10, the one or more inference models comprise a general inference model used to obtain a general target value for an average vehicle or an average user of vehicles, and wherein predicting one or more target values further comprises: predicting the general target value for the average vehicle or the average user of vehicles by inputting the collected data into the general inference model, wherein the personal target value is a personal target adjustment indicating a difference of preference between the vehicle and the average vehicle or a difference of preference between the user of the vehicle and the average user of vehicles.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the method further comprises: combining the general target value and the personal target adjustment to obtain the one or more target values to control the HVAC system of the vehicle.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the HVAC system comprises a HVAC auto unit for controlling the HVAC system, and wherein the one or more inference models comprise a HVAC auto unit inference model used to predict a general target value of the HVAC auto unit, wherein the personal target value is a personal target adjustment that indicates a difference between the general target value of the HVAC auto unit and a preferred target value of the user of the vehicle upon the HVAC auto unit.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises: combining the general target value of the HVAC auto unit and the personal target adjustment to obtain the one or more target values to control the HVAC system of the vehicle.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises: collecting historical data describing environmental measurements and one or more states of the HVAC system associated with the vehicle or the user of the vehicle; and generating the personal inference model for the vehicle or the user of the vehicle based on the historical data.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein the one or more inference models are trained by using the data describing environmental measurements and one or more states of the HVAC system collected at a current time, lagged target values inferred at one or more previous times, and a current target value at the current time as training data.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the current target value at the current time is set by the user or controlled by a HVAC controller of the HVAC system.
18. The system of claim 10, wherein collecting data describing environmental measurements and one or more states of the HVAC system comprises: collecting additional data comprising one or more of vehicle state data describing one or more states of the vehicle, user identity data describing an identity of the user, user status data describing status of the user, user demographic data describing demographic information associated with the user, and external data describing external information.
19. A vehicle system, comprising: one or more sensors equipped in or outside of a vehicle; a HVAC system equipped on the vehicle; and a computing device comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the computing device to perform a method for controlling the HVAC system, the method comprising: collecting data from the one or more sensors equipped in or outside of the vehicle; predicting one or more target values by inputting the collected data into one or more inference models that include a personal inference model, wherein the personal inference model is used to predict a personal target value for the vehicle or a user of the vehicle; and outputting the one or more target values including the personal target value for the vehicle or the user of the vehicle to control the HVAC system.
20. The vehicle system of claim 19, wherein the one or more inference models comprise a general inference model used to obtain a general target value for an average vehicle or an average user of vehicles, and wherein predicting one or more target values further comprises: predicting the general target value for the average vehicle or the average user of vehicles by inputting the collected data into the general inference model, wherein the personal target value is a personal target adjustment indicating a difference of preference between the vehicle and the average vehicle or a difference of preference between the user of the vehicle and the average user of vehicles.
</claims>
</document>
