<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/145,A61M5/172,G16H10/40,G16H20/17
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDTRONIC MINIMED
</assignee>

<inventors>
MASTROTOTARO, JOHN J.
ROY, ANIRBAN
GROSMAN, BENYAMIN
KEENAN, DESMOND BARRY
PARIKH, NEHA J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
50188481
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SAFEGUARDING MEASURES FOR A CLOSED-LOOP INSULIN INFUSION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Processor-implemented methods of controlling an insulin infusion device for a user are provided here. A first method obtains a current insulin on board (IOB) value that estimates active insulin in the user, and compensates a calculated insulin infusion rate in response to the obtained IOB value. A second method supervises the operation of a glucose sensor by obtaining and processing insulin-delivered data and glucose sensor data for the user. An alert is generated if the second method determines that a current glucose sensor value has deviated from a predicted sensor glucose value by at least a threshold amount.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more processor-readable media storing instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause performance of: generating a model for predicting physiological values based on a plurality of measured physiological values obtained during a plurality of sampling periods; operating a fluid infusion device in an automatic mode for automatically delivering fluid based on one or more physiological values; obtaining a measured physiological value corresponding to a sampling period excluded from the plurality of sampling periods; determining, based on the model, a predicted physiological value for the sampling period; and switching operation of the fluid infusion device from the automatic mode to a manual mode when a difference between the measured physiological value and the predicted physiological value exceeds a threshold error amount.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the fluid infusion device is an insulin infusion device comprising an insulin reservoir for insulin to be delivered from the insulin infusion device.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein: the measured physiological value comprises a sensor glucose value; and the predicted physiological value comprises a predicted sensor glucose value.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the one or more processor-readable media further store instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause performance of: estimating plasma insulin for the user based on current insulin-delivered data, historical insulin-delivered data, and an insulin basal rate for the user; and obtaining predicted sensor glucose values based at least in part on the estimated plasma insulin.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processor-readable media further store instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause performance of: generating an alert when the difference between the measured physiological value and the predicted physiological value exceeds the threshold error amount.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein: a recent history period corresponds to a period of time from a begin-prediction sampling period to a most recent sampling period, inclusive; a distant history period corresponds to a period of time from a begin-training sampling period to an end-training sampling period, inclusive; the distant history period occurred before the recent history period; and the model obtains predicted physiological values as a function of a bounded initial condition that is influenced by a baseline measured physiological value obtained during the distant history period.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the baseline sensor glucose value is obtained during the begin-training sampling period.
8. A processor-implemented method comprising: generating a model for predicting physiological values based on a plurality of measured physiological values obtained during a plurality of sampling periods; operating a fluid infusion device in an automatic mode for automatically delivering fluid based on one or more physiological values; obtaining a measured physiological value corresponding to a sampling period excluded from the plurality of sampling periods; determining, based on the model, a predicted physiological value for the sampling period; and switching operation of the fluid infusion device from the automatic mode to a manual mode when a difference between the measured physiological value and the predicted physiological value exceeds a threshold error amount.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the fluid infusion device is an insulin infusion device comprising an insulin reservoir for insulin to be delivered from the insulin infusion device.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein: the measured physiological value comprises a sensor glucose value; and the predicted physiological value comprises a predicted sensor glucose value.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: estimating plasma insulin for the user based on current insulin-delivered data, historical insulin-delivered data, and an insulin basal rate for the user; and obtaining predicted sensor glucose values based at least in part on the estimated plasma insulin.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising: generating an alert when the difference between the measured physiological value and the predicted physiological value exceeds the threshold error amount.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein: a recent history period corresponds to a period of time from a begin-prediction sampling period to a most recent sampling period, inclusive; a distant history period corresponds to a period of time from a begin-training sampling period to an end-training sampling period, inclusive; the distant history period occurred before the recent history period; and the model obtains predicted physiological values as a function of a bounded initial condition that is influenced by a baseline measured physiological value obtained during the distant history period.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the baseline sensor glucose value is obtained during the begin-training sampling period.
15. One or more non-transitory processor-readable media storing instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause performance of: generating a model for predicting physiological values based on a plurality of measured physiological values obtained during a plurality of sampling periods; operating a fluid infusion device in an automatic mode for automatically delivering fluid based on one or more physiological values; obtaining a measured physiological value corresponding to a sampling period excluded from the plurality of sampling periods; determining, based on the model, a predicted physiological value for the sampling period; and switching operation of the fluid infusion device from the automatic mode to a manual mode when a difference between the measured physiological value and the predicted physiological value exceeds a threshold error amount.
16. The one or more non-transitory processor-readable media of claim 15, wherein: the measured physiological value comprises a sensor glucose value; and the predicted physiological value comprises a predicted sensor glucose value.
17. The one or more non-transitory processor-readable media of claim 16, further storing instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause performance of: estimating plasma insulin for the user based on current insulin-delivered data, historical insulin-delivered data, and an insulin basal rate for the user; and obtaining predicted sensor glucose values based at least in part on the estimated plasma insulin.
18. The one or more non-transitory processor-readable media of claim 15, further storing instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause performance of: generating an alert when the difference between the measured physiological value and the predicted physiological value exceeds the threshold error amount.
19. The one or more non-transitory processor-readable media of claim 15, wherein: a recent history period corresponds to a period of time from a begin-prediction sampling period to a most recent sampling period, inclusive; a distant history period corresponds to a period of time from a begin-training sampling period to an end-training sampling period, inclusive; the distant history period occurred before the recent history period; and the model obtains predicted physiological values as a function of a bounded initial condition that is influenced by a baseline measured physiological value obtained during the distant history period.
20. The one or more non-transitory processor-readable media of claim 19, wherein the baseline sensor glucose value is obtained during the begin-training sampling period.
</claims>
</document>
