<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0205,A61B5/0402,A61B5/05,A61B5/055,A61B6/03,A61B8/00,G01S13/86,G01S13/88
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DEEP SCIENCE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HYDE, RODERICK A.
WINE, DAVID WILLIAM
HOLLOWAY, BRIAN C.
NEUMAN, MARY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68502031
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DETECTING PHYSIOLOGICAL INFORMATION USING MULTI-MODAL SENSORS
</title>

<abstract>
A micro impulse radar (MIR) system includes a first sensor, a second sensor, and a control circuit. The first sensor includes a micro impulse radar (MIR) sensor configured to receive a plurality of radar returns corresponding to an MIR radar signal transmitted towards a subject. The second sensor is configured to detect sensor data regarding the subject. The control circuit is configured to calculate a physiological parameter of the subject based on the plurality of radar returns and the sensor data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a first sensor comprising a micro impulse radar (MIR) sensor configured to receive a plurality of radar returns corresponding to an MIR radar signal transmitted towards a subject; a second sensor configured to detect sensor data regarding the subject; and a control circuit configured to: calculate a physiological parameter of the subject based on the plurality of radar returns and the sensor data.
2. The system of claim 1, comprising: a communications circuit coupled to the MIR sensor, the communications circuit configured to transmit the calculated physiological parameter to a remote device.
3. The system of claim 1, comprising: a communications circuit coupled to the MIR sensor, wherein the control circuit is remote from the MIR sensor and the communications circuit is configured to wirelessly transmit the plurality of radar returns to the control circuit.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein: the control circuit includes a subject database configured to store the plurality of radar returns and the sensor data and assign a subject identifier of the subject to the plurality of radar returns and the sensor data.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein: the subject database is configured to store the calculated physiological parameter and assign the subject identifier to the calculated physiological parameter.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein: the control circuit is configured to predict a likelihood of the subject having a medical condition by comparing the calculated physiological parameter to at least one of (i) historical values of the physiological parameter associated with the subject or (ii) a predetermined value of the physiological parameter associated with the medical condition.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein: the control circuit is configured to predict the likelihood of the subject having the medical condition further based on a demographic characteristic corresponding to the subject.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein: the calculated physiological parameter includes at least one of a cardiac parameter, a pulmonary parameter, or a gastrointestinal parameter of the subject.
9. The system of claim 6, wherein: the control circuit is configured to calculate the physiological parameter by extracting a feature from at least one of the plurality of radar returns or the sensor data, compare the extracted feature to a plurality of physiological parameter templates, and determine a match of the extracted feature to one or more of the plurality of physiological parameter templates.
10. The system of claim 6, wherein: the control circuit is configured to calculate at least one of an average value of the physiological parameter or a median value of the physiological parameter for a plurality of subjects, and output an indication of the calculated physiological parameter being abnormal based on executing an abnormal parameter identification algorithm.
11. The system of claim 6, comprising: a user interface configured to receive the calculated physiological parameter from the control circuit and output an indication of the calculated physiological parameter.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein: the user interface is configured to receive a subject identifier of the subject, and the control circuit is configured to assign the subject identifier to the plurality of radar returns and the sensor data.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein: the control circuit is configured to generate an audio representation of at least one of the plurality of radar returns or the sensor data; and the user interface is configured to output an audio signal corresponding to the audio representation.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein: the control circuit is configured to generate a control signal indicating at least one of a frequency, an amplitude, or a pulse repetition frequency of the MIR radar signal based on an expected physical response of the subject to the MIR radar signal, and transmit the control signal to an MIR transmitter to cause the MIR transmitter to output the MIR radar signal based on the control signal.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein: the control circuit is configured to calculate a signal-to-noise ratio of the plurality of radar returns and generate the control signal further based on the signal-to-noise ratio.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein: the control circuit is configured to set a range gate of the MIR sensor based on an expected distance between the MIR sensor and a tissue of the subject.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein: the control circuit is configured to filter the plurality of radar returns based on an expected tissue of the subject towards which the MIR radar signal is transmitted.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein: the control circuit is configured to filter the plurality of radar returns based on the expected tissue including at least one of a blood vessel wall, a lung wall, or a gastrointestinal wall.
19. The system of claim 1, comprising: an image capture device configured to detect an image of the subject, wherein the control circuit is configured to identify a feature of the subject based on the detected image, compare the feature to a desired location for placement of the MIR sensor, and output instructions representative of movement of the MIR sensor to the desired location based on the comparison.
20. The system of claim 1, wherein the second sensor comprises at least one of a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) device, an electrocardiogram (ECG) device, an ultrasound device, a microphone, an X-ray device, or a computed tomography (CT) device.
21. The system of claim 1, wherein the second sensor comprises an MRI device, and the control circuit causes the MIR sensor to detect the at least one radar return during operation of the MRI device.
22. The system of claim 1, wherein the MIR sensor detects at least one radar return while the second sensor detects the sensor data.
23. The system of claim 1, wherein the MIR sensor detects at least one radar return subsequent to the second sensor detecting the sensor data and the control circuit storing the sensor data in memory.
24. The system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to control operation of the MIR sensor using the sensor data received by the second sensor.
25. The system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to control operation of the second sensor using the physiological parameter.
26. A method, comprising: receiving, by a first sensor comprising a micro impulse radar (MIR) sensor, a plurality of radar returns corresponding to an MIR radar signal transmitted towards a subject; receiving, by a second sensor, sensor data; and calculating, by a control circuit, a physiological parameter of the subject based on the plurality of radar returns and the sensor data.
27. The method of claim 26, comprising: transmitting, by a communications circuit coupled to the MIR sensor, the calculated physiological parameter to a remote device.
28. The method of claim 26, comprising: wirelessly transmitting, by a communications circuit coupled to the MIR sensor, the plurality of radar returns to the control circuit, wherein the control circuit is remote from the MIR sensor.
29. The method of claim 26, comprising: storing, by a subject database of the control circuit, the plurality of radar returns and the sensor data; and assigning, by the subject database, a subject identifier of the subject to the plurality of radar returns and the sensor data.
30. The method of claim 29, comprising: storing, by the subject database, the calculated physiological parameter; and assigning, by the subject database, the subject identifier to the calculated physiological parameter.
31. The method of claim 26, comprising: predicting, by the control circuit, a likelihood of the subject having a medical condition by comparing the calculated physiological parameter to at least one of (i) historical values of the physiological parameter associated with the subject or (ii) a predetermined value of the physiological parameter associated with the medical condition.
32. The method of claim 31, comprising: predicting, by the control circuit, the likelihood of the subject having the medical condition further based on a demographic characteristic corresponding to the subject.
33. The method of claim 26, wherein: the calculated physiological parameter includes at least one of a cardiac parameter, a pulmonary parameter, or a gastrointestinal parameter of the subject.
34. The method of claim 26, wherein calculating the physiological parameter includes: extracting, by the control circuit, a feature from at least one of the plurality of radar returns or the sensor data; comparing, by the control circuit, the extracted feature to a plurality of physiological parameter templates; and determining, by the control circuit, a match of the extracted feature to one or more of the plurality of physiological parameter templates.
35. The method of claim 26, comprising: calculating, by the control circuit, at least one of an average value of the physiological parameter or a median value of the physiological parameter for a plurality of subjects; and outputting, by the control circuit, an indication of the calculated physiological parameter being abnormal based on a difference between the calculated physiological parameter and the at least one of the average value or the median value.
36. The method of claim 26, comprising: receiving, at a user interface from the control circuit, the calculated physiological parameter; and outputting, by the user interface, an indication of the calculated physiological parameter.
37. The method of claim 36, comprising: receiving, by the user interface, a subject identifier of the subject; and assigning, by the control circuit, the subject identifier to at least one of the plurality of radar returns or the sensor data.
38. The method of claim 37, comprising: generating, by the control circuit, an audio representation of at least one of the plurality of radar returns or the sensor data; and outputting, by the user interface, an audio signal corresponding to the audio representation.
39. The method of claim 26, comprising: generating, by the control circuit, a control signal indicating at least one of a frequency, an amplitude, or a pulse repetition frequency of the MIR radar signal based on an expected physical response of the subject to the MIR radar signal; and transmitting, by the control circuit, the control signal to an MIR transmitter to cause the MIR transmitter to output the MIR radar signal based on the control signal.
40. The method of claim 39, comprising: calculating, by the control circuit, a signal-to-noise ratio of the plurality of radar returns; and generating, by the control circuit, the control signal further based on the signal-to-noise ratio.
41. The method of claim 26, comprising: setting, by the control circuit, a range gate of the MIR sensor based on an expected distance between the MIR sensor and a tissue of the subject.
42. The method of claim 26, comprising: modifying, by the control circuit, the plurality of radar returns based on an expected tissue of the subject towards which the MIR radar signal is transmitted.
43. The method of claim 26, comprising: modifying, by the control circuit, the plurality of radar returns based on the expected tissue including at least one of a blood vessel wall, a lung wall, or a gastrointestinal wall.
44. The method of claim 26, comprising: detecting, by an image capture device, an image of the subject; identifying, by the control circuit, a feature of the subject based on the detected image; comparing, by the control circuit, the identified feature of the subject to a desired location for placement of the MIR sensor; and outputting, by the control circuit, instructions representative of movement of the MIR sensor to the desired location based on the comparison.
45. The method of claim 26, wherein the second sensor comprises at least one of a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) device, an electrocardiogram (ECG) device, an ultrasound device, a microphone, an X-ray device, or a computed tomography (CT) device.
46. The method of claim 26, further comprising detecting at least one radar return while detecting the sensor data.
47. The method of claim 26, further comprising detecting at least one radar return subsequent to detecting the sensor data and storing the sensor data in memory.
48. The method of claim 26, further comprising controlling operation of the MIR sensor using the sensor data received by the second sensor.
49. The method of claim 26, further comprising controlling operation of the second sensor using the physiological parameter.
</claims>
</document>
