<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/34,G06F11/36,G06N20/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CASEWARE INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
KENNEDY, BRETT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72603614
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FEATURE GENERATION AND FEATURE SELECTION FOR MACHINE LEARNING TOOL
</title>

<abstract>
A machine learning model is trained by receiving an input data set comprising a plurality of data elements having base features and automatically generating a plurality of synthetic features. Synthetic features are derived by applying at least one mathematical function to at least one existing base or synthetic feature. A feature score is determined for each feature and is representative of a correlation with a target characteristic. A filtered subset is selected from base and synthetic features based on the feature score values. The selected features are provided to the machine learning tool and the input data set is provided to said machine learning tool to generate said model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of training a model for predicting a target characteristic of data elements, comprising, at a processor: receiving an input data set comprising a plurality of data elements, said data elements characterized by a plurality of base features; automatically generating a plurality of synthetic features, each synthetic feature defined as a mathematical function of at least one existing feature or synthetic feature; for ones of said base features and said synthetic features, determining a feature score representative of a correlation with said target characteristic; selecting a filtered subset from said base features and said synthetic features based on said feature score values; providing the selected features to the machine learning tool; providing said input data set to said machine learning tool to generate said model.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting a tested subset of said filtered subset, based on testing performance a machine learning model trained with groups of said features.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein said testing performance comprises: applying a wrapper method function to said filtered subset of features wherein the wrapper method function: trains a machine learning algorithm using groups of features from said filtered subset; determines a performance of said trained machine learning algorithm trained with each group of features for predicting said target of said machine learning tool; and identifying a tested subset from said filtered subsets, said first subset having the highest performance; and providing the features of the first subset to the machine learning tool.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: selecting a second subset from the subsets of features; and providing the first and second subsets to an ensemble learning function.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein synthetic features are derived from randomly-selected ones of said base features.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating an additional feature comprises: selecting a first transformation operation, said first transformation operation for mathematically deriving values from a first existing feature; applying the first transformation operation to a first feature; selecting a combination operation; and applying the combination operation to combine the result of said first transformation operation with another feature.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein said first transformation operation is selected randomly from a list defining available operations.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein said combination operation is selected randomly.
9. The method of claim 1, comprising automatically generating synthetic features for a fixed period of time.
10. The method of claim 1, comprising automatically generating a preset number of said synthetic features.
11. A system for training a model for predicting a target characteristic of data elements, comprising: a processor; a computer-readable memory; computer-executable instructions in said memory for execution by said processor to cause said processor to: receive an input data set comprising a plurality of data elements, said data elements characterized by a plurality of base features; generate a plurality of synthetic features, each synthetic feature defined as a mathematical function of at least one existing feature or synthetic feature; for ones of said base features and said synthetic features, determine a feature score representative of a correlation with said target characteristic; select a filtered subset from said base features and said synthetic features based on said feature score values; train said model using said input data set and features of said filtered subset.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein said instructions further cause said processor to select a tested subset of said filtered subset, based on testing performance a machine learning model trained with groups of said features.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein said testing performance comprises: applying a wrapper method function to said filtered subset of features wherein the wrapper method function: trains a machine learning algorithm using groups of features from said filtered subset; determines a performance of said trained machine learning algorithm trained with each group of features for predicting said target of said machine learning tool; and identifying a tested subset from said filtered subsets, said first subset having the highest performance; and providing the features of the first subset to the machine learning tool.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein said instructions further cause said processor to: select a second subset from the subsets of features; and provide the first and second subsets to an ensemble learning function.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein said instructions cause said processor to derive said synthetic features from randomly-selected ones of said base features.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein said instructions cause said processor to generate an additional feature by: selecting a first transformation operation, said first transformation operation for mathematically deriving values from a first existing feature; applying the first transformation operation to a first feature; selecting a combination operation; and applying the combination operation to combine the result of said first transformation operation with another feature.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein said first transformation operation is selected randomly from a list defining available operations.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein said combination operation is selected randomly from said list defining available operations.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein said instructions cause said processor to generate synthetic features for a fixed period of time.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein said instructions cause said processor to generate a preset number of said synthetic features.
</claims>
</document>
