<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/242,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CIARAMITA, MASSIMILIANO
WANG WEI
ALAKUIJALA, JYRKI
GAJEWSKI, WOJCIECH
GESMUNDO, ANDREA
HOULSBY, NEIL
BUCK, CHRISTIAN
BULIAN, JANNIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62165685
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATING QUERY VARIANTS USING A TRAINED GENERATIVE MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and computer readable media related to generating query variants for a submitted query. In many implementations, the query variants are generated utilizing a generative model. A generative model is productive, in that it can be utilized to actively generate a variant of a query based on application of tokens of the query to the generative model, and optionally based on application of additional input features to the generative model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented by one or more processors, comprising: receiving an original query, the original query generated based on user interface input of a user via a client device; applying tokens of the original query as input to a trained generative model; generating at least one variant of the original query based on application of tokens of the original query to the trained generative model; generating an output based on at least one of: the at least one variant, and at least one search system response to the at least one variant; and providing, in response to the original query, the output for presentation via the client device.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying, as part of the input to the trained generative model, one or more attributes associated with the user.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: generating at least one variant of the original query based on the one or more attributes to the trained generative model.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more attributes include one or more of: a location of the user, a task currently engaged in by the user, and weather at the location of the user.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying, as part of the input to the trained generative model, one or more temporal attributes, including at least one of: a current time, a current day of the week, and a current date.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a predicted task for the user; applying, as input to the trained generative model: one or more task attributes of the predicted task for the user; and wherein generating at least one variant of the original query is based on application of the one or more task attributes to the trained generative model
7. The method of claim 6, wherein determining the predicted task of the user is based on one or more interactions with the user via the client device or an additional client device.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the one or more interactions, based on which the predicted task is determined, include an electronic communication sent by the user or a calendar entry created by the user.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein determining the predicted task of the user is based on an electronic communication sent to the user or a stored calendar entry of the user.
10. The method of claim 6, further comprising: generating a training instance that includes training instance input and training instance output, the training instance input including: first query tokens of a first query, and a task attribute, the training instance output including: second query tokens of a second query; wherein the training instance is generated with the task attribute as training instance input based on determining that a past submission of the first query, followed by a past submission of the second query, is associated with the predicted task; and training the generative model based on the generated training instance.
11. The method of claim 6, further comprising: selecting a trained generative model, from a plurality of trained generative models, based on the trained generative model being trained based on past query submissions associated with the predicted task
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: selecting training instances that are generated based on the past query submissions associated with the predicted task; and training the generative model based on the selected training instances.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining that a group of two or more previously submitted queries are associated with the predicted task; generating one of the training instances based on the previously submitted queries of the group; and labeling the one of the training instances as associated with the predicted task; wherein selecting the training instances that are generated based on the previously submitted queries associated with the predicted task comprises selecting the one of the training instances based on the labeling.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein determining that the group of two or more previously submitted queries are associated with the predicted task is based on a computing based action performed following submission of the previously submitted queries.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting a trained generative model, from a plurality of trained generative models, based on the trained generative model being trained based on past query submissions of a group of users having one or more attributes in common with the user, and applying tokens of the original query as input to the selected trained generative model.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the trained generative model is a deep neural network model with one or more memory layers.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the variant of the query comprises producing the variant based on learned parameters of the trained generative model the method further comprising applying additional input to the trained generative model, the additional input comprising at least one of: the tokens of the original query, and variant tokens of the variant of the original query; generating an additional variant of the original query over the trained generative model based on the additional input, wherein the additional variant varies from the variant and the original query, and wherein generating the additional variant of the original query comprises producing the additional variant based on the learned parameters of the trained generative model; determining an additional variant response for the additional variant of the original query based on submission of the additional variant of the original query to the search system; generating an output based on at least one of: the variant response, and the additional variant response; and providing, in response to the original query, the output for presentation via the client device.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the trained generative model is trained to generate multiple types of query variants, and wherein the variant is a first type of the multiple types of query variants and the additional variant is a second type of the multiple types of query variants.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the first type is one of: an equivalent query, a follow-up query, a generalization query, a canonicalization query, an entailment query, a specification query, a clarification query, and a language translation query; and wherein the second type is another one of: the equivalent query, the follow-up query, the generalization query, the canonicalization query, the entailment query, the specification query, the clarification query, and the language translation query.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the variant is generated over the trained generative model as the first type based on a first type value being applied as part of the input to the trained generative model, and wherein the additional variant is generated over the trained generative model as the second type based on a second type value being applied as part of the additional input to the trained generative model.
21. (canceled)
22. (canceled)
23. (canceled)
24. (canceled)
25. (canceled)
26. (canceled)
27. (canceled)
28. (canceled)
29. (canceled)
30. (canceled)
31. (canceled)
32. (canceled)
33. (canceled)
34. (canceled)
35. (canceled)
36. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
