<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9032,G06F40/247,G06F40/30,G06F40/56,G06N20/00,G06N3/02,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING JINGDONG SHANGKE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
JD.COM AMERICAN TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, LI
HOU, HUIMAN
SUN JIANXUN
TIAN, YINGQIU
WANG, JIXING
ZHOU, HUI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69641222
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for automatically generating articles of a product
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for generating an article of a product. The method includes: receiving a request from a user; when the request include an identification of the product, retrieving traits of the product from a trait database, when the request include keywords, retrieving the traits of the product by comparing the similarity between the keywords and the traits or the synonym of the traits; generating candidate sentences corresponding to the traits; selecting sentences from the candidate sentences, and revising and rearranging the sentences to generate the article.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating an article of a target product, the method comprising: receiving, by a computing device, a request from a user, the request comprising at least one of a keyword and an identification of the target product; determining at least one target trait of the target product based on the request; generating a plurality of candidate sentences corresponding to the target trait; selecting a plurality of target sentences from the candidate sentences based on an instruction from the user; and generating the article based on the target sentences.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining the at least one target trait comprises: determining if the request comprising the keyword or the identification of the target product; when the request comprises the identification of the target product: retrieving the at least one target trait from a trait database, the trait database comprising identifications of products and corresponding traits of the products; and when the request comprises the keyword of the target product: determining the at least one target trait by comparing the keyword of the target product to a synonym dictionary, dictionary words in the synonym dictionary comprising traits and synonyms of the traits.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the identification of the target product is stock keeping unit (SKU) of the target product.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of comparing the keyword to the synonym dictionary comprises: matching the keyword to the dictionary words, and when there is no match, calculating a similarity between the keyword and the dictionary words, and defining the dictionary word having the highest similarity to the keyword as the trait of the target product.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the similarity between the keyword and the dictionary words are calculated using machine learning.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of generating the plurality of candidate sentences comprises: selecting the candidate sentences corresponding to the target trait; determining collision between the candidate sentences and the target trait; removing the candidate sentences with collision to obtain filtered sentences; extracting traits reflected in each of the filtered sentences; and ranking the filtered sentences based on a fit value between reflected traits of each of the filtered sentences and the target traits of the product, wherein the fit value is calculated based on a number of same traits between the reflected traits of each filtered sentence and the target traits.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising adding a new sentence to the filtered sentences, the new sentence being generated by: replacing a verb or an adjective in one of the filtered sentences by a synonym word.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising adding a new sentence to the filtered sentences, the new sentence being generated by: parsing one of the filtered sentences into syntactic components; and reorganizing the syntactic components into a syntactic structure different from that of the one of the filtered sentences.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of selecting the plurality of target sentences comprises: selecting one target sentence from the filtered sentences based on the ranking of the filtered sentences; removing the selected one target sentence from the filtered sentence, and re-ranking the rest of the filtered sentences; and selecting another target sentence from the rest of the filtered sentences that are re-ranked.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of generating the article based on the target sentences comprises: providing an interface for revising the target sentences and re-arranging the target sentences.
11. A system for generating an article of a target product, the system comprising a computing device, the computing device comprising a processor and a storage device storing computer executable code, wherein the computer executable code, when executed at the processor, is configured to: receive a request from a user, the request comprising at least one of a keyword and an identification of the target product; determine at least one target trait of the target product based on the request; generate a plurality of candidate sentences corresponding to the target trait; select a plurality of target sentences from the candidate sentences based on an instruction from the user; and generate the article based on the target sentences.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the computer executable code is configured to determine the at least one target trait by: determining if the request comprising the keyword or the identification of the target product; when the request comprises the identification of the target product: retrieving the at least one target trait from a trait database, the trait database comprising identifications of products and corresponding traits of the products; and when the request comprises the keyword of the target product: determining the at least one target trait by comparing the keyword of the target product to a synonym dictionary, dictionary words in the synonym dictionary comprising traits and synonyms of the traits.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the computer executable code is configured to compare the key word to the synonym dictionary by: matching the keyword to the dictionary words, and when there is no match, calculating a similarity between the keyword and the dictionary words, and defining the dictionary word having the highest similarity to the keyword as the trait of the target product.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the similarity between the keyword and the dictionary words are calculated using machine learning.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the computer executable code is configured to generating the plurality of candidate sentences by: selecting the candidate sentences corresponding to the target trait; determining collision between the candidate sentences and the target trait; removing the candidate sentences with collision to obtain filtered sentences; determining traits reflected in each of the filtered sentences; and ranking the filtered sentences based on a fit value between reflected traits of each of the filtered sentences and the target traits of the product, wherein the fit value is calculated by a number of same traits between the reflected traits of each filtered sentence divided by a number of the reflected trains of that filtered sentence.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the computer executable code is further configured to add a new sentence to the filtered sentences by at least one of: replacing a verb or an adjective in one of the filtered sentences by a synonym word; and parsing one of the filtered sentences into syntactic components, and reorganizing the syntactic components into a syntactic structure different from that of the one of the filtered sentences.
17. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing computer executable code, wherein the computer executable code, when executed at a processor of a computing device, is configured to: receive a request from a user, the request comprising at least one of a keyword and an identification of the target product; determine at least one target trait of the target product based on the request; generate a plurality of candidate sentences corresponding to the target trait; select a plurality of target sentences from the candidate sentences based on an instruction from the user; and generate the article based on the target sentences.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the computer executable code is configured to: when the request comprises the identification of the target product: retrieve the at least one target trait from a trait database, the trait database comprising identifications of products and corresponding traits of the products; and when the request comprises the keyword of the target product: determine the at least one target trait by comparing the keyword of the target product to a synonym dictionary, dictionary words in the synonym dictionary comprising traits and synonyms of the traits.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the computer executable code is configured to generate the plurality of candidate sentences by: selecting the candidate sentences corresponding to the target trait; determining collision between the candidate sentences and the target trait; removing the candidate sentences with collision to obtain filtered sentences; determining traits reflected in each of the filtered sentences; and ranking the filtered sentences based on a fit value between reflected traits of each of the filtered sentences and the target traits of the product, wherein the fit value is calculated by a number of same traits between the reflected traits of each filtered sentence divided by a number of the reflected trains of that filtered sentence.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 19, wherein the computer executable code is further configured to add a new sentence to the filtered sentences by at least one of: replacing a verb or an adjective in one of the filtered sentences by a synonym word; and parsing one of the filtered sentences into syntactic components, and reorganizing the syntactic components into a syntactic structure different from that of the one of the filtered sentences.
</claims>
</document>
