<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0484,G06K9/62,G06N5/04,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BASAK, ANIRUDDHA
BRETT, CHARLES EDWIN ASHTON
EBERHARDT, SVEN
HILLENMEYER, SARA PARKER
PENG, LIZHEN
WELBOURNE, WILLIAM EVAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68172254
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
STATE PREDICTION OF DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for state prediction of devices are disclosed. A group of reference devices may be identified and a subset of the reference devices may be identified and/or determined based at least in part on a degree of similarity between reference usage-patterns associated with the reference devices and a usage pattern of a target device. The current state of the subset of the reference devices may be determined and may be utilized to determine a probability that the target device should be in a given state. The state prediction information may be utilized for one or more actions, such as sending recommendations, target inference operations, and/or device configuration, for example.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: determining usage-pattern data associated with a device situated in a first building, the usage-pattern data indicating transitions of the device between an on state and an off state over a period of time, the device associated with a device type indicating functionality of the device; identifying reference devices associated with the device type; determining reference usage-pattern data indicating a reference usage pattern of a reference device of the reference devices over the period of time, the reference device situated in a second building, the reference usage pattern indicating transitions of the reference device between the on state and the off state; determining a degree of similarity between the reference usage pattern and the usage pattern; identifying, using the degree of similarity, the reference device for inclusion in a subset of the reference devices; determining, using current-state data indicating a state of the subset of the reference devices, a first number of the subset of the reference devices in the on state; determining, using the current-state data, a second number of the subset of the reference devices in the off state; and determining, from the first number and the second number, a probability value that the device should be in the on state.
2. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: receiving an indication that the device is in the off state; determining that the probability value is at least a threshold probability value; generating, from the probability value being at least the threshold probability value, notification data associated with a notification that the device is in the off state instead of the on state; sending the notification data to a mobile device associated with the device; receiving, from the mobile device, input data indicating a request to transition the device from the off state to the on state; and sending an instruction configured to cause the device to transition from the off state to the on state.
3. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: receiving, from a voice-enabled device and during a time period, audio data representing a user utterance; determining, from the audio data, intent data indicating an intent to operate a target device; determining, using the probability value, that the device is operated during the time period; and identifying the device as the target device from determining that the device is operated during the time period.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the period of time comprises a first period of time, and the operations further comprise: receiving an indication that an away mode is being configured for use; determining, using the reference usage-pattern data, scheduling data representing a schedule for transitioning the device between the on state and the off state over a second period of time; generating recommendation data, using the scheduling data, indicating a recommendation to configure the away mode; sending the recommendation data to a mobile device associated with the device; receiving, from the mobile device, input data representing an acceptance of the recommendation; and causing the away mode to be configured using the schedule.
5. A method, comprising: identifying, based at least in part on a degree of similarity between a reference usage pattern of a reference device of reference devices and a usage pattern associated with a device, the reference device for inclusion in a subset of the reference devices; determining a first number of the subset of the reference devices in a first state at a time; determining a second number of the subset of the reference devices in a second state at the time; and determining, based at least in part on the first number and the second number, a probability value that the device should be in the first state.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving an indication that the device is in the second state; determining that the probability value is at least a threshold probability value; generating, based at least in part on the probability value being at least the threshold probability value, notification data associated with a notification that the device is in the second state instead of the first state; and sending the notification data to a personal device associated with the device.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the device comprises a first device, and the method further comprises: receiving, from a second device and during a time period including the time, audio data representing a user utterance; determining, based at least in part on the audio data, intent data indicating an intent to operate a target accessory device; determining, based at least in part on the probability value, that the first device is operated during the time period; and identifying the first device as the target accessory device based at least in part on determining that the first device is operated during the time period.
8. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining, based at least in part on the reference usage pattern, scheduling data representing a schedule for transitioning the device between the first state and the second state over a period of time; generating recommendation data, using the scheduling data, indicating a mode for the device; and sending the recommendation data to a personal device associated with the device.
9. The method of claim 5, wherein the device is associated with a user account, and the method further comprises: identifying a device type associated with the device; and identifying the reference devices based at least in part on the reference devices being associated with the device type, the reference devices associated with one or more other user accounts.
10. The method of claim 5, wherein the device is associated with a user account, and the method further comprises identifying the reference devices based at least in part on the reference devices being associated with the user account.
11. The method of claim 5, further comprising identifying the reference devices based at least in part on contextual data indicating that the device is associated with a geographic region and the reference devices are associated with the geographic region.
12. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining a time of day representative of when device operation within a space ceases; storing device-group data indicating one or more devices in a device group to be operated upon at the time of day; determining that the device is unassociated with the device group; determining, based at least in part on the probability value, that the device is a candidate for association with the device group; and sending recommendation data representing a request to associate the device with the device group.
13. A system comprising: one or more processors; and computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: identifying, based at least in part on a degree of similarity between a reference usage pattern of a reference device of reference devices and a usage pattern associated with a device, the reference device for inclusion in a subset of the reference devices; determining a first number of the subset of the reference devices in a first state at a time; determining a second number of the subset of the reference devices in a second state at the time; and determining, based at least in part on the first number and the second number, a probability value that the device should be in the first state.
14. The system of claim 13, the operations further comprising: receiving an indication that the device is in the second state; determining that the probability value is at least a threshold probability value; generating, based at least in part on the probability value being at least the threshold probability value, notification data associated with a notification that the device is in the second state instead of the first state; and sending the notification data to a personal device associated with the device.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the device comprises a first device, and the operations further comprise: receiving, from a second device and during a time period including the time, audio data representing a user utterance; determining, based at least in part on the audio data, intent data indicating an intent to operate a target accessory device; determining, based at least in part on the probability value, that the first device is operated during the time period; and identifying the first device as the target accessory device based at least in part on determining that the first device is operated during the time period.
16. The system of claim 13, the operations further comprising: determining, based at least in part on the reference usage pattern, scheduling data representing a schedule for transitioning the device between the first state and the second state over a period of time; generating recommendation data, using the scheduling data, indicating a mode for the device; and sending the recommendation data to a personal device associated with the device.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the device is associated with a user account, and the operations further comprise: identifying a device type associated with the device; and identifying the reference devices based at least in part on the reference devices being associated with the device type, the reference devices associated with one or more other user accounts.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the device is associated with a user account, and the operations further comprise identifying the reference devices based at least in part on the reference devices being associated with the user account.
19. The system of claim 13, the operations further comprising identifying the reference devices based at least in part on contextual data indicating that the device is associated with a geographic region and the reference devices are associated with the geographic region.
20. The system of claim 13, the operations further comprising: determining a time of day representative of when device operation within a space ceases; storing device-group data indicating one or more devices in a device group to be operated upon at the time of day; determining that the device is unassociated with the device group; determining, based at least in part on the probability value, that the device is a candidate for association with the device group; and sending recommendation data representing a request to associate the device with the device group.
</claims>
</document>
