<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T17/05
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMC IP HOLDING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
NATANZON, ASSAF
SAVIC, DRAGAN
TODD, STEPHEN J.
TABET, SAID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69228824
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-DIMENSIONAL EVENT MODEL GENERATION
</title>

<abstract>
A physical event to be modeled is selected. A profile for the physical event is generated based on an event type of the physical event. Data is obtained from a plurality of data sources, wherein the obtained data comprises data relevant to the physical event that is collected by the plurality of data sources, and further wherein at least a portion of the obtained data comprises one or more of spatial and temporal references associated with the collection of the data. A digital representation of the physical event is generated based on at least a portion of the obtained data and the generated profile. The digital representation is utilized to analyze one or more other physical events associated with the modeled physical event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: selecting a physical event to be modeled; generating a profile for the physical event based on an event type of the physical event; obtaining data from a plurality of data sources, wherein the obtained data comprises data relevant to the physical event that is collected by the plurality of data sources, and further wherein at least a portion of the obtained data comprises one or more of spatial and temporal references associated with the collection of the data; generating a digital representation of the physical event based on at least a portion of the obtained data and the generated profile; and utilizing the digital representation to analyze one or more other physical events associated with the modeled physical event; wherein the method is implemented via one or more processing devices each comprising a processor coupled to a memory.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the spatial references comprise geographic location information associated with one or more elements associated with the physical event.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the temporal references comprise one or more timestamps associated with the collection of the obtained data by the plurality of data sources.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more other physical events associated with the modeled physical event comprise one or more of a past physical event and a future physical event.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the digital representation comprises a multi-dimensional model of the physical event.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the data obtaining step further comprises accessing transaction data stored in a distributed ledger system.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the accessing step further comprises querying the distributed ledger system to obtain transaction data based on the one or more of spatial and temporal references.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of data sources comprises a cluster of connected vehicles configured with mobile compute platforms, wherein at least a portion of the connected vehicles are involved in the physical event being modeled.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of data sources comprises traffic control infrastructure, wherein at least a portion of the traffic control infrastructure is involved in the physical event being modeled.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of data sources comprises a satellite data source positioned to collect data relevant to the physical event being modeled.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of data sources comprises a cloud platform configured to collect data relevant to the physical event being modeled.
12. An article of manufacture comprising a non-transitory processor-readable storage medium having stored therein program code of one or more software programs, wherein the program code when executed by at least one processing device causes said at least one processing device to perform steps of: selecting a physical event to be modeled; generating a profile for the physical event based on an event type of the physical event; obtaining data from a plurality of data sources, wherein the obtained data comprises data relevant to the physical event that is collected by the plurality of data sources, and further wherein at least a portion of the obtained data comprises one or more of spatial and temporal references associated with the collection of the data; generating a digital representation of the physical event based on at least a portion of the obtained data and the generated profile; and utilizing the digital representation to analyze one or more other physical events associated with the modeled physical event.
13. A system comprising: one or more processing devices configured to: select a physical event to be modeled; generate a profile for the physical event based on an event type of the physical event; obtain data from a plurality of data sources, wherein the obtained data comprises data relevant to the physical event that is collected by the plurality of data sources, and further wherein at least a portion of the obtained data comprises one or more of spatial and temporal references associated with the collection of the data; generate a digital representation of the physical event based on at least a portion of the obtained data and the generated profile; and utilize the digital representation to analyze one or more other physical events associated with the modeled physical event.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the spatial references comprise geographic location information associated with one or more elements associated with the physical event.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the temporal references comprise one or more timestamps associated with the collection of the obtained data by the plurality of data sources.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more other physical events associated with the modeled physical event comprise one or more of a past physical event and a future physical event.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the digital representation comprises a multi-dimensional model of the physical event.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more processing devices are further configured to access transaction data stored in a distributed ledger system.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the one or more processing devices are further configured to query the distributed ledger system to obtain transaction data based on the one or more of spatial and temporal references.
20. The system of claim 13, wherein at least one of the plurality of data sources comprises one or more of: a cluster of connected vehicles configured with mobile compute platforms, wherein at least a portion of the connected vehicles are involved in the physical event being modeled; traffic control infrastructure, wherein at least a portion of the traffic control infrastructure is involved in the physical event being modeled; a satellite data source positioned to collect data relevant to the physical event being modeled; and a cloud platform configured to collect data relevant to the physical event being modeled.
</claims>
</document>
