<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G07C5/00,G08G1/01,G08G1/133
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DENSO TEN
</assignee>

<inventors>
SODA, TOMOFUMI
HIRASHIMA, YOSHITAKA
HAMAOKA, TATSUYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70160277
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA COLLECTION DEVICE, DATA COLLECTION SYSTEM, AND DATA COLLECTION METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A data collection apparatus includes: a collection unit which collects data relating to respective vehicles from vehicular devices installed in the respective vehicles; a reception unit which receives a prescribed communication amount specified; and a providing unit which provides a user interface that provides guidance on manipulations for specifying a data collection condition so that a communication amount of data collected by the collection unit falls within the specified communication amount.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data collection apparatus comprising: a collection unit which collects data relating to respective vehicles from vehicular devices installed in the respective vehicles; a reception unit which receives a prescribed communication amount specified; and a providing unit which provides a user interface that provides guidance on manipulations for specifying a data collection condition so that a communication amount of data collected by the collection unit falls within the specified communication amount.
2. The data collection apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an analysis unit which analyzes results obtained under past collection conditions, wherein: the reception unit receives a collection condition specified by a user together with the specified communication amount; the analysis unit extracts, from the results, a similar condition that is a past collection condition similar to the collection condition received by the reception unit, and calculates a communication amount to occur under the similar condition; and the providing unit informs the user of the communication amount to occur under the similar condition calculated by the analysis unit.
3. The data collection apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the analysis unit extracts a similar condition according to priority ranks that are set for respective items of the collection condition and degrees of relation of specified values, specified by the user, of each item.
4. The data collection apparatus according to claim 2, wherein, if the communication amount to occur under the similar condition is higher than the specified communication amount, the analysis unit extracts other similar conditions under which communication amounts to occur will fall within the specified communication amount in descending order of the degree of alteration and causes the providing unit to inform the user of the other similar conditions extracted.
5. The data collection apparatus according to claim 3, wherein, if the communication amount to occur under the similar condition is higher than the specified communication amount, the analysis unit extracts other similar conditions under which communication amounts to occur will fall within the specified communication amount in descending order of the degree of alteration and causes the providing unit to inform the user of the other similar conditions extracted.
6. The data collection apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the providing unit provides guidance about specified values of an item other than one item of the collection condition according to a specified value of the one item.
7. The data collection apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the providing unit provides guidance about specified values of an item other than one item of the collection condition according to a specified value of the one item.
8. The data collection apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the providing unit provides guidance about specified values of an item other than one item of the collection condition according to a specified value of the one item.
9. The data collection apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the providing unit provides guidance about specified values of an item other than one item of the collection condition according to a specified value of the one item.
10. The data collection apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the providing unit informs the user of relationships between the communication amount to occur under the similar condition and a data collection period and the number of collection target vehicles together with the communication amount to occur under the similar condition.
11. The data collection apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the providing unit informs the user of relationships between the communication amount to occur under the similar condition and a data collection period and the number of collection target vehicles together with the communication amount to occur under the similar condition.
12. The data collection apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the providing unit informs the user of relationships between the communication amount to occur under the similar condition and a data collection period and the number of collection target vehicles together with the communication amount to occur under the similar condition.
13. The data collection apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the providing unit informs the user of relationships between the communication amount to occur under the similar condition and a data collection period and the number of collection target vehicles together with the communication amount to occur under the similar condition.
14. The data collection apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the providing unit informs the user of a relationship between the specified communication amount and the communication amount to occur under the similar condition.
15. The data collection apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the providing unit informs the user of a relationship between the specified communication amount and the communication amount to occur under the similar condition.
16. The data collection apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the providing unit informs the user of a relationship between the specified communication amount and the communication amount to occur under the similar condition.
17. The data collection apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the providing unit informs the user of a relationship between the specified communication amount and the communication amount to occur under the similar condition.
18. The data collection apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the providing unit informs the user of a relationship between the specified communication amount and the communication amount to occur under the similar condition.
19. A data collection system comprising: the data collection apparatus according to claim 1; the vehicular devices; and a terminal device which is provided with the user interface through which the user performs manipulations for specifying a communication amount and a collection condition.
20. A data collection method comprising: collecting data relating to respective vehicles from vehicular devices installed in the respective vehicles; receiving a prescribed communication amount specified; and providing a user interface that provides guidance on manipulations for specifying a data collection condition so that a communication amount of data collected by the collecting falls within the specified communication amount.
</claims>
</document>
