<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/03,G07D7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SANTHANAM, MURALI
HALL, JOHN B.
SIMPKINS, KERRY KURT
FOWLES, JASHER DAVID
MOULTON, JEANNE M.
PEPE, MICHAEL JOSEPH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971074
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Item validation and image evaluation system with feedback loop
</title>

<abstract>
Systems for item validation and image evaluation are provided. In some examples, a system may receive an instrument and associated data. The instrument may be received and at least one of a bill pay profile and a user profile may be retrieved. The bill pay profile and user profile may each include a plurality of previously processed instruments that have been determined to be valid and/or authentic. The instrument may be compared to the plurality of previously processed instruments to determine whether one or more elements of the instrument being evaluated match one or more corresponding elements of the plurality of previously processed instruments. Matching or non-matching elements may be identified. In some examples, one or more user interfaces may be generated displaying the instruments and including any highlighting or enhancements identifying matching or non-matching elements.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing platform, comprising: at least one processor; a communication interface communicatively coupled to the at least one processor; and memory storing computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computing platform to: receive an image of a first instrument and associated data from an image processing computing device; compare the image to first data retrieved from a first computing system and second data retrieved from a second computing system, wherein the first data and the second data comprises images of invalid instruments; after a predetermined time, based on an unmatched condition, extract user data from the received image of the first instrument and associated data; retrieve a user profile associated with the user of the first instrument, the user profile including images of a plurality of previously processed instruments; compare the received image of the first instrument to the of images of the plurality of previously processed instruments in the user profile; identify, based on the comparing, at least one of: an element of the first instrument that matches a corresponding element from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments and an element of the first instrument that does not match a corresponding element from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments; based on an identified element of the first instrument that matches a corresponding element from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments, generate a first user interface; and based on an identified element of the first instrument that does not match a corresponding element from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments, generate a second user interface different from the first user interface.
2. The computing platform of claim 1, wherein the received associated data includes an indication of a validity of the instrument.
3. The computing platform of claim 1, wherein the first computing system comprises a claims computing system processing claims of improper activity reported by users.
4. The computing platform of claim 1, wherein the second computing system comprises a returns computing system processing instruments and instrument information retuned from a plurality of third parties.
5. The computing platform of claim 1, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to: based on an identified element that matches a corresponding element from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments, determine whether a number of matches between elements of the first instrument and corresponding elements from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments is above a threshold; and based on the number of matches being above the threshold, generate a selectable option to add the first instrument to the user profile.
6. The computing platform of claim 5, wherein the generated first user interface includes the selectable option to add the first instrument to the user profile.
7. The computing platform of claim 1, wherein the received image and associated data is received after the image has been processed by the image processing computing device and after an initial evaluation of validity of the instrument has been determined.
8. The computing platform of claim 1, wherein the first user interface and the second user interface include images of the first instrument and an image of at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments.
9. The computing platform of claim 1, wherein the first user interface includes enhancements identifying the element of the first instrument that matches the corresponding element from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments.
10. A method, comprising: at a computing platform comprising at least one processor, memory, and a communication interface: receiving, by the at least one processor and via the communication interface, an image of a first instrument and associated data from an image processing computing device; extracting, by the at least one processor, user data from the received image of the first instrument and associated data; determining, over a specified time period, whether the user data matches first data retrieved from a claims computing system or second data retrieved from a returns computing system; rejecting, the first instrument if the user data matches information of the first data or the second data; retrieving, by the at least one processor after the predetermined time period based on a failure to match user data to the first data or the second data, a user profile associated with a user of the first instrument, the user profile including images of a plurality of previously processed instruments; comparing, by the at least one processor, the received image of the first instrument to the images of the plurality of previously processed instruments in the user profile; identifying, by the at least one processor and based on the comparing, at least one of: an element of the first instrument that matches a corresponding element from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments and an element of the first instrument that does not match a corresponding element from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments; if an element of the first instrument that matches a corresponding element from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments is identified, generating, by the at least one processor, a first user interface; and if an element of the first instrument that does not match a corresponding element from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments is identified, generating, by the at least one processor, a second user interface different from the first user interface.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the received associated data includes an indication of a validity of the instrument.
12. The method of claim 10, further including: if an element of the first instrument that matches a corresponding element from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments is identified, determine whether a number of matches between elements of the first instrument and corresponding elements from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments is above a threshold; and if the number of matches is above the threshold, generating, by the at least one processor, a selectable option to add the first instrument to the user profile.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the generated first user interface includes the selectable option to add the first instrument to the user profile.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the received image and associated data is received after the image has been processed by the image processing computing device and after an initial evaluation of validity of the instrument has been determined.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the first user interface and the second user interface include images of the first instrument and an image of at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein the first user interface includes enhancements identifying the element of the first instrument that matches the corresponding element from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments.
17. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by a computing platform comprising at least one processor, memory, and a communication interface, cause the computing platform to: receive an image of a first instrument and associated data from an image processing computing device; compare the image to first data retrieved from a first computing system and second data retrieved from a second computing system, wherein the first data and the second data comprises images of invalid instruments; after a predetermined time, based on an unmatched condition, extract user data from the received image of the first instrument and associated data; retrieve a user profile associated with the user of the first instrument, the user profile including images of a plurality of previously processed instruments; compare the received image of the first instrument to the of images of the plurality of previously processed instruments in the user profile; identify, based on the comparing, at least one of: an element of the first instrument that matches a corresponding element from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments and an element of the first instrument that does not match a corresponding element from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments; based on an identified element of the first instrument that matches a corresponding element from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments, generate a first user interface; and based on an identified element of the first instrument that does not match a corresponding element from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments, generate a second user interface different from the first user interface.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 17, wherein the received associated data includes an indication of validity of the instrument.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 17, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to: determine, based on a matched element, whether a number of matches between elements of the first instrument and corresponding elements from at least one instrument of the plurality of previously processed instruments is above a threshold; and when the number of matches is above the threshold, generate a selectable option to add the first instrument to the user profile.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 17, wherein the generated first user interface includes the selectable option to add the first instrument to the user profile.
</claims>
</document>
