<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08B25/01,G08G1/00,H04W4/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, KYUNG HEE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67775176
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR PREVENTING INCORRECT BOARDING OF AUTONOMOUS DRIVING VEHICLE
</title>

<abstract>
A method and an apparatus for preventing an incorrect boarding of an autonomous driving vehicle are disclosed. The method includes calling a first vehicle, acquiring positional information of the first vehicle and positional information of a passenger terminal, determining that a passenger boards a second vehicle when a position of the passenger terminal is continuously changed and a position of the first vehicle and the position of the passenger terminal are farther than a preset distance after a time point when the first vehicle is called, displaying a message inquiring whether to transfer to the first vehicle on a display of the passenger terminal, and transmitting a response to the message to a server.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for preventing an incorrect boarding of an autonomous driving vehicle using a passenger terminal, the method comprising: calling a first vehicle; acquiring positional information of the first vehicle and positional information of a passenger terminal; determining that a passenger boards a second vehicle when a position of the passenger terminal is continuously changed and a position of the first vehicle and the position of the passenger terminal are farther than a preset distance after a time point when the first vehicle is called; displaying a message inquiring whether to transfer to the first vehicle on a display of the passenger terminal; and transmitting a response to the message to a server.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining that the passenger boards the second vehicle is in response to determining that a movement speed of the passenger terminal is equal to or greater than a preset threshold value based on the positional information of the passenger terminal.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: requesting the server for vehicle information on the second vehicle and receiving the vehicle information to check a communication connection of the second vehicle; determining that the second vehicle is an unregistered vehicle when the vehicle information is not received from the server because there is no registration information on the second vehicle; and displaying a message indicating that the second vehicle is the unregistered vehicle on a display unit of the passenger terminal.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: calculating a path difference by comparing a reservation path when the first vehicle is called with movement information of the passenger based on the positional information of the passenger terminal; and determining that a suspected crime situation occurs based on determining that the path difference is equal to or greater than a preset threshold value and transmitting a rescue request message to the server.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: acquiring voice data of the passenger through a voice recognition device of the passenger terminal; identifying a predetermined voice pattern from the acquired voice data; and determining that a suspected crime situation occurs based on the predetermined voice pattern and transmitting a rescue request message to the server.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein identifying of the predetermined voice pattern includes: sampling inspection target data to be input to a scream detection model from the acquired voice data; inputting the inspection target data to an input layer of the scream detection model; and determining that a passenger's voice corresponds to a non-ideal voice determined as a scream sound based on an output value of the scream detection model.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: initiating searching that the passenger boards the second vehicle when a distance between the passenger terminal and the first vehicle approaches less than a specific distance.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the specific distance is set differently depending on at least one object type or the number of objects existing between the first vehicle and the passenger terminal.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving information on the reservation of the first vehicle from the server when a response of the passenger is a message requesting a transfer, wherein the information on the reservation of the first vehicle includes a desired transfer location.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: transmitting a rescue request message to the server when the positional information of the passenger terminal is far away by the preset distance from a point closest to the desired transfer location.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting a rescue request message to the server when the positional information of the passenger terminal is far away by the preset distance from a point closest to an initial setting destination at the time of reserving the first vehicle if a response of the passenger is a transfer rejection message.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that the passenger is in an unresponsive state and transmitting a rescue request message to the server when a response is not transmitted to the server through the passenger terminal within a preset time.
13. A passenger terminal for preventing an incorrect boarding of an autonomous driving vehicle, the passenger terminal comprising: a transceiver; a memory; a processor; a GPS module; and a display, wherein the transceiver calls a first vehicle, receives positional information of the first vehicle, and transmits a message inquiring transferring, the GPS module acquires positional information of the passenger terminal and determines that a passenger boards a second vehicle when a position of the passenger terminal is continuously changed and a position of the first vehicle and the position of the passenger terminal are farther than a preset distance after a time point when the first vehicle is called, and the display displays a message inquiring transferring to the first vehicle.
14. The passenger terminal of claim 13, wherein the processor determines that a passenger boards the second vehicle in response to determining that a movement speed of the passenger terminal is equal to or greater than a preset threshold value based on the positional information of the passenger terminal.
15. The passenger terminal of claim 13, wherein the transceiver requests a server for vehicle information on the second vehicle and receives the vehicle information to check a communication connection of the second vehicle, wherein the processor determines that the second vehicle is an unregistered vehicle when the vehicle information is not received from the server because there is no registration information on the second vehicle; and wherein the display displays a message indicating that the second vehicle is a vehicle not registered in the server on the display unit of the passenger terminal.
16. The passenger terminal of claim 13, further comprising: a microphone, wherein the microphone acquires voice data of the passenger, and wherein the transceiver transmits a rescue request message to a server when the processor identifies a non-ideal voice determined as a scream sound from the acquired voice data.
17. A method for preventing an incorrect boarding of an autonomous driving vehicle using a first vehicle that a passenger calls, the method comprising: receiving positional information of the first vehicle and positional information of a passenger terminal when a distance between the passenger terminal and the first vehicle approaches less than a specific distance; determining that a passenger boards a second vehicle when a position of the passenger terminal is continuously changed and a position of the first vehicle and the position of the passenger terminal are farther than a preset distance; and tracking the second vehicle based on the positional information of the passenger terminal.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: stopping a vehicle at the position of the passenger terminal or a scheduled transfer location and waits for boarding of the passenger when receiving a transfer request message from a server, wherein the scheduled transfer location is a reset destination of the second vehicle for the transfer of the passenger.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: determining that the second vehicle is a vehicle suspected of a crime when the second vehicle sets the desired transfer location as a designation and the positional information of the passenger terminal is far away by a preset distance from a point closest to the destination; and tracking the second vehicle based on the positional information of the passenger terminal and monitoring the second vehicle by a camera.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: transmitting a driving control signal of V2X communication inducing low-speed driving of the second vehicle to the second vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
