<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N7/00,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG, TIANYI
Song, Bowen
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63217029
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING RISK-CONTROL RULES
</title>

<abstract>
One embodiment of the present disclosure provides a system and method for generating risk-control rules. During operation, the system can obtain a first data set and a second data set. The first data set can be associated with a first set of events in a first domain. The second data set can be associated with a second set of events in a second domain. The system can combine the first data set and the second data set to generate a sample data set and train a statistical model by applying the sample data set to determine a set of weights. The system can determine a set of conditions based on the set of weights. Next, the system can generate a set of risk-control rules based on the set of conditions. The system can then apply the set of risk-control rules to a current event in the second domain to determine a credibility of the current event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: obtaining a first data set and a second data set, wherein the first data set is associated with a first set of events in a first domain, and wherein the second data set is associated with a second set of events in a second domain; combining the first data set and the second data set to generate a sample data set; training a statistical model by applying the sample data set to determine a set of weights; determining a set of characteristic parameter values and a set of conditions based on the set of weights; generating a set of risk-control rules based on the set of conditions and the set of characteristic parameter values; and applying the set of risk-control rules to a current event in the second domain to determine a credibility of the current event.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein combining the first data set and the second data set to generate the sample data set comprises: identifying data with one or more of: identical dimensions; and identical service logic definition in the first domain and the second domain.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein training the statistical model by applying the sample data set to determine the set of weights comprises: initializing a classification model with an initial set of weights based on the sample data set; and adjusting the initial set of weights until a classification correction rate associated with the classification model satisfies a pre-defined convergence threshold value to obtain the set of weights.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein adjusting the initial set of weights further comprises: decreasing a first subset of weights corresponding to a first portion of the sample data set that is misclassified, wherein the first portion of the sample data set is associated with a first domain; and increasing a second subset of weights corresponding to a second portion of the sample data set that is misclassified, wherein the second portion of the sample data set is associated with a second domain.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein training the statistical model by applying the sample data set to determine the set of weights is based on a Transfer Adaptive Boosting (TrAdaBoost) technique; and wherein the set of conditions is determined by applying a weighted decision tree algorithm.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first data set and the second data set include customer relationship management Recency Frequency Monetary (RFM) data used for indicating risk similarity in transaction events.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the customer relationship management RFM data includes one or more of: transaction related parameters; internet risk related parameters; and historical behavior related parameters.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first domain represents a well-established financial service with large amount of historical transaction data; and wherein the second domain represents a new financial service with significantly less transaction data compared to that in the first domain.
9. A computer system, comprising: a processor; and a storage device coupled to the processor and storing instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform a method, the method comprising obtaining a first data set and a second data set, wherein the first data set is associated with a first set of events in a first domain, and wherein the second data set is associated with a second set of events in a second domain; combining the first data set and the second data set to generate a sample data set; training a statistical model by applying the sample data set to determine a set of weights; determining a set of characteristic parameter values and a set of conditions based on the set of weights; generating a set of risk-control rules based on the set of conditions and the set of characteristic parameter values; and applying the set of risk-control rules to a current event in the second domain to determine a credibility of the current event.
10. The computer system of claim 9, wherein combining the first data set and the second data set to generate the sample data set comprises: identifying data with one or more of: identical dimensions; and identical service logic definition in the first domain and the second domain.
11. The computer system of claim 9, wherein training the statistical model by applying the sample data set to determine the set of weights comprises: initializing a classification model with an initial set of weights based on the sample data set; and adjusting the initial set of weights until a classification correction rate associated with the classification model satisfies a pre-defined convergence threshold value to obtain the set of weights.
12. The computer system of claim 11, wherein adjusting the initial set of weights further comprises: decreasing a first subset of weights corresponding to a first portion of the sample data set that is misclassified, wherein the first portion of the sample data set is associated with a first domain; and increasing a second subset of weights corresponding to a second portion of the sample data set that is misclassified, wherein the second portion of the sample data set is associated with a second domain.
13. The computer system of claim 9, wherein training the statistical model by applying the sample data set to determine the set of weights is based on a Transfer Adaptive Boosting (TrAdaBoost) technique; and wherein the set of conditions is determined by applying a weighted decision tree algorithm.
14. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the first data set and the second data set include customer relationship management Recency Frequency Monetary (RFM) data used for indicating risk similarity in transaction events.
15. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the customer relationship management RFM data includes one or more of: transaction related parameters; internet risk related parameters; and historical behavior related parameters.
16. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the first domain represents a well-established financial service with large amount of historical transaction data; and wherein the second domain represents a new financial service with significantly less transaction data compared to that in the first domain.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform a method, the method comprising: obtaining a first data set and a second data set, wherein the first data set is associated with a first set of events in a first domain, and wherein the second data set is associated with a second set of events in a second domain; combining the first data set and the second data set to generate a sample data set; training a statistical model by applying the sample data set to determine a set of weights; determining a set of characteristic parameter values and a set of conditions based on the set of weights; generating a set of risk-control rules based on the set of conditions and the set of characteristic parameter values; and applying the set of risk-control rules to a current event in the second domain to determine a credibility of the current event.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein combining the first data set and the second data set to generate the sample data set comprises: identifying data with one or more of: identical dimensions; and identical service logic definition in the first domain and the second domain.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein training the statistical model by applying the sample data set to determine the set of weights comprises: initializing a classification model with an initial set of weights based on the sample data set; and adjusting the initial set of weights until a classification correction rate associated with the classification model satisfies a pre-defined convergence threshold value to obtain the set of weights.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein adjusting the initial set of weights further comprises: decreasing a first subset of weights corresponding to a first portion of the sample data set that is misclassified, wherein the first portion of the sample data set is associated with a first domain; and increasing a second subset of weights corresponding to a second portion of the sample data set that is misclassified, wherein the second portion of the sample data set is associated with a second domain.
</claims>
</document>
