<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/02,G06K9/62,G06T7/00,G06T7/70,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, JAEHWAN
BAIEV, OLEKSANDR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69883237
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING INFORMATION RELATED TO A STATUS OF AN OBJECT IN A REFRIGERATOR
</title>

<abstract>
A method of providing information related to a state of an object in a refrigerator includes obtaining a first camera image including at least one object kept in the refrigerator through a camera arranged in the refrigerator, obtaining environmental information in the refrigerator through an environmental sensor arranged in the refrigerator, predicting information related to a current state of the at least one object by applying the first camera image including the at least one object and the environmental information in the refrigerator to an artificial intelligence (AI) model; and providing the information related to the current state of the at least one object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of providing information related to a state of an object in a refrigerator, the method comprising: obtaining a first camera image comprising at least one object kept in the refrigerator through a camera arranged in the refrigerator; obtaining environmental information in the refrigerator through an environmental sensor arranged in the refrigerator; predicting information related to a current state of the at least one object by applying the first camera image comprising the at least one object and the environmental information in the refrigerator to an artificial intelligence (AI) model; and providing the information related to the current state of the at least one object.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the providing of the information related to the current state of the at least one object comprises: providing information about a consumable period of the at least one object.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the providing of the information related to the current state of the at least one object comprises: providing information about a ripeness or a freshness of the at least one object.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the environmental sensor comprises at least one of a temperature sensor, a humidity sensor, or an odor sensor, and the obtaining of the environmental information in the refrigerator comprises obtaining at least one of temperature information, humidity information, or odor information in the refrigerator.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the obtaining of the environmental information in the refrigerator comprises obtaining temperature information of a temperature around the at least one object by using a temperature sensor, and the predicting of the information related to the current state of the at least one object comprises predicting the information related to the current state of the at least one object by applying the first camera image and the temperature information to the AI model.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the obtaining of the environmental information in the refrigerator comprises obtaining odor information of the at least one object by using an odor sensor arranged to be adjacent to the at least one object, and the predicting of the information related to the current state of the at least one object comprises predicting the information related to the current state of the at least one object by applying the first camera image and the odor information to the AI model.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the predicting of the information related to the current state of the at least one object comprises: obtaining a spectrometric image with respect to the at least one object by using a spectrometric sensor arranged in the refrigerator; and predicting the information related to the current state of the at least one object by applying the first camera image, the spectrometric image, and the environmental information in the refrigerator to the AI model.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the predicting of the information related to the current state of the at least one object comprises: determining whether a gas detection quantity measured by at least one odor sensor from among a plurality of odor sensors arranged in the refrigerator exceeds a critical value; when the gas detection quantity exceeds the critical value, generating an odor distribution map based on odor information obtained from the plurality of odor sensors; and comparing the first camera image comprising the at least one object with the odor distribution map and identifying a first object of the at least one object including a spoilage probability that is greater than a reference value.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the identifying of the first object comprises: obtaining spectrometric information about the first object by using a spectrometric sensor arranged in the refrigerator; and determining a degree of spoilage of the first object by using the spectrometric information.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising: when the first object is totally or partially hidden by a second object of the at least one object in the first camera image, providing notification information about a location where the first object is kept in the refrigerator.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising: controlling a position of the camera to capture the identified first object.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the obtaining of the first camera image comprises obtaining the first camera image comprising the at least one object at a first time point through the camera, the method further comprising: obtaining a second camera image comprising the at least one object at a second time point, which is after the first time point, through the camera; obtaining information related to a state of the at least one object at the second time point and a degree of a state change of the at least one object between the first time point and the second time point, by applying the first camera image, the second camera image, and environmental information at the second time point to the AI model; and controlling an image detection interval of the camera, based on at least one of the information related to the state of the at least one object at the second time point or the degree of the state change of the at least one object.
13. A refrigerator comprising: a camera configured to obtain a first camera image comprising at least one object kept in the refrigerator; an environmental sensor configured to obtain environmental information in the refrigerator; and a processor configured to predict information related to a current state of the at least one object by applying the first camera image and the environmental information in the refrigerator to an artificial intelligence (AI) model; and an outputter configured to provide the information related to the current state of the at least one object.
14. The refrigerator of claim 13, wherein the information related to the current state of the at least one object comprises at least one of information about a consumable period of the at least one object, information about a ripeness of the at least one object, or information about a freshness of the at least one object.
15. The refrigerator of claim 13, wherein the environmental sensor comprises a temperature sensor, and the processor is further configured to: obtain temperature information of a temperature around the at least one object by using the temperature sensor, and predict the information related to the current state of the at least one object by applying the first camera image and the temperature information to the AI model.
16. The refrigerator of claim 13, wherein the environmental sensor comprises an odor sensor arranged to be adjacent to the at least one object, and the processor is further configured to: obtain odor information of the at least one object by using the odor sensor, and predict the information related to the current state of the at least one object by applying the first camera image comprising the at least one object and the odor information of the at least one object to the AI model.
17. The refrigerator of claim 16, wherein the processor is further configured to: obtain a spectrometric image about the at least one object by using a spectrometric sensor arranged in the refrigerator, and predict the information related to the current state of the at least one object by applying the first camera image, the spectrometric image, and the environmental information in the refrigerator to the AI model.
18. The refrigerator of claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine whether a gas detection quantity measured by at least one odor sensor from among a plurality of odor sensors arranged in the refrigerator exceeds a critical value, generate an odor distribution map based on odor information obtained from the plurality of odor sensors, when the gas detection quantity exceeds the critical value, and compare the first camera image comprising the at least one object with the odor distribution map and identify a first object of the at least one object including a spoilage probability that is greater than a reference value.
19. The refrigerator of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to: obtain spectrometric information about the first object by using a spectrometric sensor arranged in the refrigerator, and determine a degree of spoilage of the first object by using the spectrometric information.
20. A computer program product comprising a recording medium having recorded thereon a program to execute: an operation of obtaining a first camera image comprising at least one object kept in a refrigerator through a camera arranged in the refrigerator, an operation of obtaining environmental information in the refrigerator through an environmental sensor arranged in the refrigerator, an operation of predicting information related to a current state of the at least one object by applying the first camera image comprising the at least one object and the environmental information in the refrigerator to an artificial intelligence (AI) model, and an operation of providing the information related to the current state of the at least one object.
</claims>
</document>
