<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F16/2457,G06F16/25,G16B20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NANTOMICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
VASKE, CHARLES JOSEPH
BENZ, STEPHEN CHARLES
Preble, Andrea
Little, John Thomas
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72515737
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DATA CURATION
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method are described for receiving biological process input data from a biological process input data source and transforming the biological process input data into curated data, which may be in a flattened or normalized data space. As an example, a curation server is disclosed with the ability to transform biological process input data from the scientific literature such that the data can be mapped to patient-specific genomic data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method, comprising: receiving biological process input data in a first digital data format; transforming the biological process input data into curated data in a second digital data format by accessing at least one digital data source comprising at least one characteristic of each datum of the biological process input data and accessing at least one digital data source to extend at least one such characteristic; storing the curated data within a curated database; receiving patient-specific digital data; transforming the patient-specific digital data into the second digital data format; mapping the patient-specific digital data to the curated data within the second digital data format; determining that at least one instance of digital data in the patient-specific digital data matches or nearly matches at least one instance of digital data in the curated data; and transmitting a report to a client device of a patient or healthcare provider that provides an indication results from the determination that at least one instance of data in the patient-specific data matches or nearly matches at least one instance of data in the curated data.
2. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the biological process input data comprises an electronic document.
3. The computer implemented method of claim 2, wherein the biological process input data comprises a text-based document, the method further comprising: analyzing the text-based document for metadata; and storing the metadata along with the curated data in the curated database.
4. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining an inference exists as part of mapping the patient-specific digital data to the curated data; determining a confidence score for the inference; comparing the confidence score for the inference with a predetermined confidence threshold; and automatically accepting the inference as long as the confidence score meets or exceeds the predetermined confidence threshold.
5. The computer implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: analyzing one or more mapping data models to determine whether the inference impacts the one or more mapping data models; determining that the inference impacts the one or more mapping data models; and updating the one or more mapping data models to include the inference.
6. The computer implemented method of claim 5, wherein the one or more mapping data models are updated automatically in response to the confidence score meeting or exceeding the predetermined confidence threshold.
7. The computer implemented method of claim 5, wherein the inference is made by analyzing at least one of a shared pathway interaction or cell communication behavior.
8. The computer implemented method of claim 5, wherein the one or more mapping data models comprise a neural network and wherein updating the one or more mapping data models comprises changing at least one coefficient in the neural network.
9. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the curated data is maintained in a normalized data space.
10. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the biological process input data comprises a research paper, review paper, research poster, medical publication, clinical trial report, white paper, or combinations thereof and wherein the patient-specific data comprises genomic sequence data.
11. A computer implemented method, comprising: receiving, at a processor, biological process input data in a first data format; transforming, with the processor, the biological process input data into curated data in a second data format by: accessing at least one data source comprising at least one characteristic of each datum of the biological process input data; accessing at least one data source to extend at least one such characteristic; and storing, with the processor, the curated data within a curated database.
12. The computer implemented method of claim 11, wherein the biological process input data comprises an electronic document.
13. The computer implemented method of claim 12, wherein the biological process input data comprises a text-based document, the method further comprising: analyzing, with the processor, the text-based document for metadata; and storing, with the processor, the metadata along with the curated data in the curated database.
14. The computer implemented method of 11, wherein biological process input data comprises data selected from (i) an identity of a biological or chemical entity; (ii) a function of a biological or chemical entity; or (iii) a relationship between the function of a biological or chemical entity and another biological or chemical entity.
15. The computer implemented method of claim 11, wherein extending at least one such characteristic of a datum of the biological process input data is done by inference from the biological process input data, and further comprising: determining, with the processor, a confidence score for the inference; comparing, with the processor, the confidence score for the inference with a predetermined confidence threshold; and automatically accepting, with the processor, the inference as long as the confidence score meets or exceeds the predetermined confidence threshold.
16. The computer implemented method of claim 14, further comprising: analyzing, with the processor, one or more mapping data models to determine whether the inference impacts the one or more mapping data models; determining, with the processor, that the inference impacts the one or more mapping data models; and updating, with the processor, the one or more mapping data models to include the inference.
17. The computer implemented method of claim 15, wherein the one or more mapping data models are updated automatically in response to the confidence score meeting or exceeding the predetermined confidence threshold.
18. The computer implemented method of claim 15, wherein the inference is made by analyzing at least one of a central dogma relationship, shared pathway interaction or cell communication behavior.
19. The computer implemented method of claim 15, wherein the one or more mapping data models comprise a neural network and wherein updating the one or more mapping data models comprises changing at least one coefficient in the neural network.
20. The computer implemented method of claim 11, wherein the curated data is maintained in a normalized data space.
21. The computer implemented method of claim 11, wherein the biological process input data comprises a research paper, review paper, research poster, medical publication, clinical trial report, white paper, or government report.
</claims>
</document>
