<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SAMANIEGO, PAUL
ELSASSER, RYAN
KOZIOL, MATEUSZ
FINCH, RICHARD BURTON
Casserly, Karl Owen
Doscher, Michael J.
Childers, Adam Benjamin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72605239
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENABLING INTERACTIVE CABLE ROUTING AND PLANNING OPTIMIZATION FOR CUSTOMIZED HARDWARE CONFIGURATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are systems, methods, and computer products for interactive cable routing and planning optimization for customized hardware configurations. An example method includes receiving a set of cable characteristics and a set of user selections, in which the set of user selections are received via a graphical user interface (GUI). Identifying possible cabling routes for a hardware configuration based, at least in part, on available plug start and termination locations. Ranking each of the possible cabling routes based, at least in part, on a prioritized list of optimization criteria and the set of cable characteristics. Generating a suggested cabling configuration for one or more applications based, at least in part, on the set of cable characteristics, the set of user selections, and the ranking. Outputting the suggested cabling configuration to the user by at least providing a three-dimensional view of the suggested cabling configuration via the GUI.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for interactive cable configuration routing, the computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a system comprising one or more processors, a set of cable characteristics and a set of user selections, wherein the set of user selections are received via a graphical user interface (GUI), wherein the set of user selections includes a prioritized list of optimization criteria; identifying, by the system, possible cabling routes for a hardware configuration based, at least in part, on available plug start and termination locations; ranking, by the system, each of the possible cabling routes based, at least in part, on the prioritized list of optimization criteria and the set of cable characteristics; generating, by the system, a suggested cabling configuration for one or more applications based, at least in part, on the set of cable characteristics, the set of user selections, and the ranking, wherein the one or more applications includes one or more of a design application, a manufacturing application, or a service application; and outputting, by the system, the suggested cabling configuration to the user by at least providing a three-dimensional view of the suggested cabling configuration via the GUI.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more applications includes the design application, wherein the set of cable characteristics includes one or more of a configuration density, a thermal performance, a cable length, or distance between longest and shortest signal cable, wherein the generating of the suggested cabling configuration includes generating a set of suggested design alterations, wherein the set of suggested design alterations includes a change in a connector location of the hardware configuration.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the set of suggested design alterations further includes a set of suggested assembly configuration alterations, wherein the set of suggested assembly configuration alterations includes a location of a drawer and locations of card plugs within the drawer.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more applications includes the manufacturing application, wherein the set of cable characteristics includes one or more of unique part numbers, cabling/un-cabling times, ergonomic metrics, risk of assembly induced damage, cabling configurations that are available based on limited part availability, wherein the risk of assembly induced damages includes metrics relating to an amount of fragility of previously installed cables.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more applications includes the service application, wherein the set of cable characteristics includes one or more of cabling/un-cabling times, complexity of likely field upgrades, ease of service related to servicing or updating hardware components when substituting or adding hardware of a multi-frame system.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the generating of the suggested cabling configuration includes generating a set of suggested assembly alterations, wherein the set of suggested assembly alterations are based, at least in part, on maximizing at least one metric of the set of cabling characteristics or maximizing a combination of metrics of the set of cabling characteristics.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of user selections are received by the system in response to receiving a dragging and dropping input from the user, wherein the dragging and dropping input includes arranging hardware components or cables within the GUI, wherein the outputting of the cabling configuration includes displaying a holographic visual aide.
8. A system for interactive cable configuration routing, the system comprising one or more processors configured to perform a method comprising: receiving, by the system, a set of cable characteristics and a set of user selections, wherein the set of user selections are received via a graphical user interface (GUI), wherein the set of user selections includes a prioritized list of optimization criteria; identifying, by the system, possible cabling routes for a hardware configuration based, at least in part, on available plug start and termination locations; ranking, by the system, each of the possible cabling routes based, at least in part, on the prioritized list of optimization criteria and the set of cable characteristics; generating, by the system, a suggested cabling configuration for one or more applications based, at least in part, on the set of cable characteristics, the set of user selections, and the ranking, wherein the one or more applications includes one or more of a design application, a manufacturing application, or a service application; and outputting, by the system, the suggested cabling configuration to the user by at least providing a three-dimensional view of the suggested cabling configuration via the GUI.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more applications includes the design application, wherein the set of cable characteristics includes one or more of a configuration density, a thermal performance, a cable length, or distance between longest and shortest signal cable, wherein the generating of the suggested cabling configuration includes generating a set of suggested design alterations, wherein the set of suggested design alterations includes a change in a connector location of the hardware configuration.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the set of suggested design alterations further includes a set of suggested assembly configuration alterations, wherein the set of suggested assembly configuration alterations includes a location of a drawer and locations of card plugs within the drawer.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more applications includes the manufacturing application, wherein the set of cable characteristics includes one or more of unique part numbers, cabling/un-cabling times, ergonomic metrics, risk of assembly induced damage, cabling configurations that are available based on limited part availability, wherein the risk of assembly induced damages includes metrics relating to an amount of fragility of previously installed cables.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more applications includes the service application, wherein the set of cable characteristics includes one or more of cabling/un-cabling times, complexity of likely field upgrades, ease of service related to servicing or updating hardware components when substituting or adding hardware of a multi-frame system.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the generating of the suggested cabling configuration includes generating a set of suggested assembly alterations, wherein the set of suggested assembly alterations are based, at least in part, on maximizing at least one metric of the set of cabling characteristics or maximizing a combination of metrics of the set of cabling characteristics.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the set of user selections are received by the system in response to receiving a dragging and dropping input from the user, wherein the dragging and dropping input includes arranging hardware components or cables within the GUI, wherein the outputting of the cabling configuration includes displaying a holographic visual aide.
15. A computer program product for interactive cable configuration routing, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a system comprising one or more processors to cause the system to perform a method comprising: receiving, by the system, a set of cable characteristics and a set of user selections, wherein the set of user selections are received via a graphical user interface (GUI), wherein the set of user selections includes a prioritized list of optimization criteria; identifying, by the system, possible cabling routes for a hardware configuration based, at least in part, on available plug start and termination locations; ranking, by the system, each of the possible cabling routes based, at least in part, on the prioritized list of optimization criteria and the set of cable characteristics; generating, by the system, a suggested cabling configuration for one or more applications based, at least in part, on the set of cable characteristics, the set of user selections, and the ranking, wherein the one or more applications includes one or more of a design application, a manufacturing application, or a service application; and outputting, by the system, the suggested cabling configuration to the user by at least providing a three-dimensional view of the suggested cabling configuration via the GUI; wherein the set of user selections are received by the system in response to receiving a dragging and dropping input from the user, wherein the dragging and dropping input includes arranging hardware components or cables within the GUI, wherein the outputting of the cabling configuration includes displaying a holographic visual aide.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the one or more applications includes the design application, wherein the set of cable characteristics includes one or more of a configuration density, a thermal performance, a cable length, or distance between longest and shortest signal cable, wherein the generating of the suggested cabling configuration includes generating a set of suggested design alterations, wherein the set of suggested design alterations includes a change in a connector location of the hardware configuration.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the set of suggested design alterations further includes a set of suggested assembly configuration alterations, wherein the set of suggested assembly configuration alterations includes a location of a drawer and locations of card plugs within the drawer.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the one or more applications includes the manufacturing application, wherein the set of cable characteristics includes one or more of unique part numbers, cabling/un-cabling times, ergonomic metrics, risk of assembly induced damage, cabling configurations that are available based on limited part availability, wherein the risk of assembly induced damages includes metrics relating to an amount of fragility of previously installed cables.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the one or more applications includes the service application, wherein the set of cable characteristics includes one or more of cabling/un-cabling times, complexity of likely field upgrades, ease of service related to servicing or updating of hardware components when substituting or adding hardware of a multi-frame system.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the generating of the suggested cabling configuration includes generating a set of suggested assembly alterations, wherein the set of suggested assembly alterations are based, at least in part, on maximizing at least one metric of the set of cabling characteristics or maximizing a combination of metrics of the set of cabling characteristics.
</claims>
</document>
