<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/64,G01N33/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF TSUKUBA
</assignee>

<inventors>
NOMURA NOBUHIKO
YAWATA, Yutaka
KIYOKAWA, Tatsunori
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62627799
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA CREATION METHOD AND DATA USE METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A data creation method includes: an autofluorescence data generation step of placing a focus of light having a predetermined wavelength at one set of coordinates on a predetermined focal plane, irradiating a sample positioned at the set of coordinates with excitation light containing the light to obtain autofluorescence emitted from the sample, and generating autofluorescence data including intensity data and/or spectrum data of the autofluorescence; a reflected light data generation step of irradiating the set of coordinates on the predetermined focal plane with illumination light to obtain reflected light scattered by the sample, and generating intensity data of the reflected light; and a correspondence data creation step of creating correspondence data associating the autofluorescence data and the reflected light data on the set of coordinates on the predetermined focal plane.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data creation method comprising: an autofluorescence data generation step of placing a focus of excitation light having a predetermined wavelength at one set of coordinates on a predetermined focal plane, irradiating a sample positioned at the set of coordinates with the excitation light to obtain autofluorescence emitted from the sample, and generating autofluorescence data including intensity data and/or spectrum data of the autofluorescence; a reflected light data generation step of irradiating the set of coordinates on the predetermined focal plane with illumination light to obtain reflected light scattered by the sample, and generating intensity data of the reflected light; and a correspondence data creation step of creating correspondence data associating the autofluorescence data and the intensity data of the reflected light on the set of coordinates on the predetermined focal plane.
2. The data creation method according to claim 1, wherein the data creation method is performed on a plurality of different sets of coordinates on the predetermined focal plane.
3. The data creation method according to claim 1, wherein the data creation method is performed on a plurality of different focal planes.
4. The data creation method according to claim 1, wherein the autofluorescence data generation step includes outputting a plurality of rays of excitation light having different wavelengths and creating the autofluorescence data including spectrum profile data containing a plurality of pieces of the spectrum data of the autofluorescence obtained by the respective rays of excitation light.
5. The data creation method according to claim 4, wherein the reflected light data generation step includes obtaining the reflected light using any one of the rays of excitation light having different wavelengths.
6. The data creation method according to claim 4, wherein the reflected light data generation step includes obtaining the reflected light using all the rays of excitation light having different wavelengths.
7. The data creation method according to claim 1, wherein the autofluorescence data generation step is performed only on a set of coordinates from which the reflected light having an intensity equal to or higher than a predetermined intensity is obtained at the reflected light data generation step.
8. The data creation method according to claim 1, wherein the autofluorescence data generation step is performed on a plurality of sets of coordinates from which the reflected light having an intensity equal to or higher than a predetermined intensity is obtained at the reflected light data generation step and on one or a plurality of sets of coordinates positioned in a region that is surrounded by the sets of coordinates and that corresponds to an inside of the sample.
9. The data creation method according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the excitation light and the illumination light is laser light.
10. A data use method comprising generating the correspondence data by the data creation method according to claim 1 and finding out correlation with a state of a sample by comparing a plurality of pieces of the autofluorescence data of the sample.
11. The data use method according to claim 10, wherein the correlation is found out by machine learning.
12. A data use method comprising generating the correspondence data by the data creation method according to claim 1 and identifying or evaluating an unknown sample by comparing the autofluorescence data of a known sample with the autofluorescence data of the unknown sample.
13. The data use method according to claim 12, wherein the known sample is characterized by machine learning.
14. The data use method according to claim 10, wherein the sample is any one of an animal cell, a plant cell, an yeast cell, an eumycetes cell, a microalgae cell, a bacterium, an archaeon, a virus, and a phage and any one of a spore, a sporule, and a membrane vesicle produced by the cells and the organisms.
15. The data use method according to claim 10, wherein the state of the sample relates to a metabolic state or a physiological state of the sample.
16. The data use method according to claim 12, wherein identification of the unknown sample is to identify a biological kingdom, phylum, class, order, family, genus, species, breed, pathotype or serotype.
17. The data use method according to claim 12, wherein identification of the unknown sample is to identify a microbiological strain or sub-strain.
18. The data use method according to claim 12, wherein evaluation of the unknown sample relates to a metabolic state or a physiological state.
19. A data use method comprising: an autofluorescence data generation step of placing a focus of light having a predetermined wavelength at one set of coordinates on a predetermined focal plane, irradiating a sample positioned at the set of coordinates with excitation light containing the light to obtain autofluorescence emitted from the sample, and generating autofluorescence data including intensity data and/or spectrum data of the autofluorescence; a reflected light data generation step of irradiating the set of coordinates on the predetermined focal plane with illumination light to obtain reflected light scattered by the sample, and generating intensity data of the reflected light; a correspondence data creation step of creating correspondence data associating the autofluorescence data and the intensity data of the reflected light on the set of coordinates on the predetermined focal plane; a repetition step of repeating the autofluorescence data generation step, the reflected light data generation step, and the correspondence data creation step on a plurality of different focal planes; and an extraction step of extracting a group having a predetermined property using the correspondence data obtained by the repetition step.
20. The data use method according to claim 12, wherein the sample is any one of an animal cell, a plant cell, an yeast cell, an eumycetes cell, a microalgae cell, a bacterium, an archaeon, a virus, and a phage and any one of a spore, a sporule, and a membrane vesicle produced by the cells and the organisms.
</claims>
</document>
