<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06N20/00,G06Q40/06,G16H10/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHARIFI SEDEH, REZA
SIMHON, ERAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69720999
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHD OF SOCIAL-BEHAVIORAL ROI CALCULATION AND OPTIMIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
A patient selection tool for selecting patients for a social-behavioral determinants of health (SBDoH) program, including: a graphical user interface (GUI) module configured to present a GUI to a user, receive inputs from the user including a SBDoH factor, and to select patient cohort data based upon the inputs received from the user, a machine-learning model configured to predict a key performance indicator (KPI) for each patient based upon the patient cohort data and the SBDoH factor, a success rate module configured to predict the probability of success of the SBDoH program for each patient in the patient cohort; a return on investment (ROI) module configured to determine the cost savings associated with the SBDoH program for each patient in the patient cohort based upon the cost associated with the KPI, the probability of success of the SBDoH program, and a change in the KPI associated with the SBDoH factor, and a patient selection module configured to select patients for the SBDoH program based upon the determined cost saving associated with the SBDoH program for each patient in the patient cohort.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A patient selection tool for selecting patients for a social-behavioral determinants of health (SBDoH) program, comprising: a graphical user interface (GUI) module configured to present a GUI to a user, receive inputs from the user including a SBDoH factor and to select patient cohort data based upon the inputs received from the user, a machine-learning model configured to predict a key performance indicator (KPI) for each patient based upon the patient cohort data and the SBDoH factor, a success rate module configured to predict the probability of success of the SBDoH program for each patient in the patient cohort; a return on investment (ROI) module configured to determine the cost savings associated with the SBDoH program for each patient in the patient cohort based upon the cost associated with the KPI, the probability of success of the SBDoH program, and a change in the KPI associated with the SBDoH factor, and a patient selection module configured to select patients for the SBDoH program based upon the determined cost saving associated with the SBDoH program for each patient in the patient cohort.
2. The patient selection tool of claim 1, wherein the GUI further comprises a cohort pane, an actionable factors pane, and a KPI pane.
3. The patient selection tool of claim 1, wherein the cohort pane includes one of a chronic condition list, geographic location list, provider group list and several lists of social factors such as age, gender and marital status.
4. The patient selection tool of claim 1, wherein the machine learning mode determines the change in the KPI associated with the SBDoH factor by calculating the KPI for the patient with the SBDoH factor and the KPI for the patient without the SBDoH factor and calculating the difference between the KPI for the patient with the SBDoH factor and KPI for the patient without the SBDoH factor.
5. The patient selection tool of claim 1, wherein machine-learning module is further configured to remove patient data variables by a propensity score matching method.
6. The patient selection tool of claim 1, wherein the probability of success of the SBDoH program is determined based upon patient responses to survey questions.
7. The patient selection tool of claim 1, wherein the patient selection module is further configured to select patients for the SBDoH program based upon a set budget for the SBDoH program.
8. The patient selection tool of claim 1, wherein the patient selection module is further configured to select patients for the SBDoH program based upon a ROI threshold.
9. A method of selecting patients for a social-behavioral determinants of health (SBDoH) program, comprising: a presenting a graphical user interface (GUI) module configured to present a GUI to a user, receiving inputs via the GUI from the user including a SBDoH factor, selecting patient cohort data based upon the inputs received from the user, predicting, by a machine-learning model, a key performance indicator (KPI) for each patient based upon the patient cohort data and the SBDoH factor, predicting, by a success rate module, the probability of success of the SBDoH program for each patient in the patient cohort; determining, by a return on investment (ROI) module, the cost savings associated with the SBDoH program for each patient in the patient cohort based upon the cost associated with the KPI, the probability of success of the SBDoH program, and a change in the KPI associated with the SBDoH factor, and selecting, by a patient selection module, patients for the SBDoH program based upon the determined cost saving associated with the SBDoH program for each patient in the patient cohort.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the GUI further comprises a cohort pane, an actionable factors pane, and a KPI pane.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the cohort pane includes one of a chronic condition list, and social factors such as age, gender, provider group, geographic location, and marital status.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the change in the KPI associated with the SBDoH factor further comprises calculating the KPI for the patient with the SBDoH factor and the KPI for the patient without the SBDoH factor and calculating the difference between the KPI for the patient with the SBDoH factor and KPI for the patient without the SBDoH factor.
13. The method of claim 9, further comprises removing patient data variables by a propensity score matching method before predicting the KPI.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the probability of success of the SBDoH program is determined based upon patient responses to survey questions.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein selecting patients for the SBDoH program is based upon a set budget for the SBDoH program.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein selecting patients for the SBDoH program is based upon a ROI threshold.
17. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium encoded with instructions for selecting patients for a social-behavioral determinants of health (SBDoH) program, the non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising: instructions for a presenting a graphical user interface (GUI) module configured to present a GUI to a user, instructions for receiving inputs via the GUI from the user including a SBDoH factor, instructions for selecting patient cohort data based upon the inputs received from the user, instructions for predicting, by a machine-learning model, a key performance indicator (KPI) for each patient based upon the patient cohort data and the SBDoH factor, instructions for predicting, by a success rate module, the probability of success of the SBDoH program for each patient in the patient cohort; instructions for determining, by a return on investment (ROI) module, the cost savings associated with the SBDoH program for each patient in the patient cohort based upon the cost associated with the KPI, the probability of success of the SBDoH program, and a change in the KPI associated with the SBDoH factor; and instructions for selecting, by a patient selection module, patients for the SBDoH program based upon the determined cost saving associated with the SBDoH program for each patient in the patient cohort.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the GUI further comprises a cohort pane, an actionable factors pane, and a KPI pane.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the cohort pane includes one of a chronic condition list, and social factors such as age, gender, provider group, geographic location, and marital status.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein instructions for determining the change in the KPI associated with the SBDoH factor further comprises instructions for calculating the KPI for the patient with the SBDoH factor and the KPI for the patient without the SBDoH factor and instructions for calculating the difference between the KPI for the patient with the SBDoH factor and KPI for the patient without the SBDoH factor.
21. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, further comprises instructions for removing patient data variables by a propensity score matching method before predicting the KPI.
22. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the probability of success of the SBDoH program is determined based upon patient responses to survey questions.
23. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein selecting patients for the SBDoH program is based upon a set budget for the SBDoH program.
24. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein selecting patients for the SBDoH program is based upon a ROI threshold.
</claims>
</document>
