<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/27,G06N5/02,G06Q10/08,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IYER, GANESH
SAMAREV, ROMAN
</assignee>

<inventors>
IYER, GANESH
SAMAREV, ROMAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971043
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Prediction of Business Outcomes by Analyzing Music Interests of Users
</title>

<abstract>
Predicting business outcomes by analyzing music interests of a target user includes generation of predictor models based on test data of tests users. The test data includes historic data of the test users, music samples of interest to the test users, and answers provided by the test users to psychometric questions. The predictor models are then used to predict psychometric features and business outcomes based on target data of the target user. The target data includes music samples that are of interest to the target user, historic data of the target user, and answers provided by the target user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for predicting business outcomes for a target user, the method comprising: retrieving, by a server, historic data of at least one test user, a first set of music samples associated with music interest of the test user, and a first set of answers provided by the test user to a set of psychometric questions; analyzing, by the server, the first set of answers and the first set of music samples, wherein the first set of answers is analyzed for deriving one or more psychometric features of the test user, and wherein the first set of music samples is analyzed for extracting a first set of feature values corresponding to a set of music features from the first set of music samples; generating, by the server, one or more predictor models based on the historic data of the test user, the first set of feature values, and the one or more psychometric features of the test user; and predicting, by the server, one or more business outcomes for the target user based on the one or more predictor models and a second set of music samples associated with music interest of the target user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more business outcomes include at least one of employment affinity, color affinity, product purchase affinity, purchase behavior, music suggestions, or employment suggestions.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the historic data includes at least one of educational qualification, job profile, purchase history, travel history, likes, or dislikes of the test user.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of music features include at least one of rhythm, energy, harmonics, spectral components, or temporal components.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising storing, by the server, the one or more predictor models in a database associated with the server.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: mapping, by the server, each music feature of the set of music features to each psychometric feature of the test user based on the first set of feature values for generating a link therebetween; and assigning, by the server, a weight to the link between each music feature of the set of music features and each psychometric feature of the test user for generating the one or more predictor models.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: rendering, by the server on a user device of the target user, a user interface to present the one or more business outcomes to the target user; and receiving, by the server, a feedback from the target user on the one or more business outcomes, wherein the feedback is provided by way of the user interface.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising updating, by the server, the weight of the link between each music feature of the set of music features and each psychometric feature of the test user based on the feedback.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising analyzing, by the server, the second set of music samples for extracting a second set of feature values for the set of music features from the second set of music samples, wherein the second set of feature values is used as input to the one or more predictor models for predicting the one or more business outcomes.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising predicting, by the server, one or more psychometric features of the target user based on the second set of feature values, wherein the predicted one or more psychometric features of the target user are further used as input to the one or more predictor models for predicting the one or more business outcomes.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising analyzing, by the server, a second set of answers provided by the target user to the set of psychometric questions to derive one or more psychometric features of the target user, wherein the derived one or more psychometric features of the target user are further used as input to the one or more predictor models for predicting the one or more business outcomes.
12. A system for predicting business outcomes for a target user, the system comprising: a server that is configured to: retrieve historic data of at least one test user, a first set of music samples associated with music interest of the test user, and a first set of answers provided by the test user to a set of psychometric questions; analyze the first set of answers and the first set of music samples, wherein the first set of answers is analyzed for deriving one or more psychometric features of the test user, and wherein the first set of music samples is analyzed for extracting a first set of feature values corresponding to a set of music features from the first set of music samples; generate one or more predictor models based on the historic data of the test user, the first set of feature values, and the one or more psychometric features of the test user; and predict one or more business outcomes for the target user based on the one or more predictor models and a second set of music samples associated with music interest of the target user.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the historic data includes at least one of educational qualification, job profile, purchase history, travel history, likes, or dislikes of the test user, and wherein the one or more business outcomes include at least one of employment affinity, color affinity, product purchase affinity, purchase behavior, music suggestions, or employment suggestions.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the server is further configured to: map each music feature of the set of music features to each psychometric feature of the test user based on the first set of feature values for generating a link therebetween, and assign a weight to the link between each music feature of the set of music features and each psychometric feature of the test user for generating the one or more predictor models.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the server is further configured to: render, on a user device of the target user, a user interface to present the one or more business outcomes to the target user; and receive a feedback from the target user on the one or more business outcomes, wherein the feedback is provided by way of the user interface.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the server is further configured to: update the weight of the link between each music feature of the set of music features and each psychometric feature of the test user based on the feedback.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein the server is further configured to: analyze the second set of music samples for extracting a second set of feature values for the set of music features from the second set of music samples, wherein the second set of feature values is used as input to the one or more predictor models for predicting the one or more business outcomes.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the server is further configured to: predict one or more psychometric features of the target user based on the second set of feature values, wherein the predicted one or more psychometric features of the target user are further used as input to the one or more predictor models for predicting the one or more business outcomes.
19. The system of claim 12, wherein the server is further configured to: analyze a second set of answers provided by the target user to the set of psychometric questions to derive one or more psychometric features of the target user, wherein the derived one or more psychometric features of the target user are used as input to the one or more predictor models for predicting the one or more business outcomes.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon, computer executable instruction, which when executed by a computer, cause the computer to execute operations, the operations comprising: retrieving, by a server, historic data of at least one test user, a first set of music samples associated with music interest of the test user, and a first set of answers provided by the test user to a set of psychometric questions; analyzing, by the server, the first set of answers and the first set of music samples, wherein the first set of answers is analyzed for deriving one or more psychometric features of the test user, and wherein the first set of music samples is analyzed for extracting a first set of feature values corresponding to a set of music features from the first set of music samples; generating, by the server, one or more predictor models based on the historic data of the test user, the first set of feature values, and the one or more psychometric features of the test user; and predicting, by the server, one or more business outcomes for the target user based on the one or more predictor models and a second set of music samples associated with music interest of the target user.
</claims>
</document>
