<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/792,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FORMATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOLDOBIN, STAS
MCKINLAY, CHRIS
PFEIL, GREG
SELCHAU-HANSEN, CHRISTIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72042603
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and System for Customizing End User Gaming Experience
</title>

<abstract>
A system for customizing an end user gaming experience is disclosed herein. The system includes a processor. The processor is configured to create a campaign by receiving a campaign creation request from an end user device, the campaign creation request comprising one or more parameters of a campaign associated with the campaign request, creating the campaign based on the one or more parameters associated with the campaign request, and personalizing one or more offers for an end user, each of the one or more offers comprising a game having one or more hurdles, wherein completion of each of the one or more hurdles leads to a reward. The processor is further configured to map a subset of the one or more personalized offers to the end user. The processor is further configured to monitor progress of the campaign.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for customizing an end user gaming experience, comprising: a processor in communication with a client computing system and one or more end user devices, the processor configured to create a campaign by: receiving a campaign creation request from an end user device, the campaign creation request comprising one or more parameters of a campaign associated with the campaign request; creating the campaign based on the one or more parameters associated with the campaign request; personalizing one or more offers for an end user, each of the one or more offers comprising a game having one or more hurdles, wherein completion of each of the one or more hurdles leads to a reward; and mapping a subset of the one or more personalized offers to the end user; and monitor progress of the campaign, by: pushing the one or more personalized offers to each respective end user device; monitoring each end user's progression in a respective game; and updating each user's progression in the respective game.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters comprise a campaign objective.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the campaign requests further comprises end user descriptive attributes.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein mapping one or more offers to an end user, comprises: mapping each of the one or more offers to an end user based on end user descriptive attributes using a machine learning algorithm.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein personalizing each of the one or more offers based on the end user to which each of the one or more offers was mapped, comprises: personalizing each of the one or more offers based on end user descriptive attributes.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein monitoring each end user's progression in a respective game, comprises: receiving, by the orchestration engine, one or more streams of end user transaction data, wherein end user transaction data comprises transactions occurring at a facility or organization associated with client computing system; for each end user transaction in the one or more streams of end user transaction data, identifying whether each transaction satisfies a hurdle in the game.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the policy module is further configured to generate one or more new offers based on each end user's progression in a respective game using a machine learning model.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the policy module is further configured to: identify a subset of the one or more offers that exceed a threshold engagement level; and assigning the one or more offers that exceed the threshold to additional end users.
9. A method of customizing end user gaming experience, comprising: initiating, by an organization computing system, a campaign comprising one or more offers, each offer corresponding to a personalized game to be played by each end user device, wherein upon completion of one or more hurdles in the personalized game, each end user device receives a reward; receiving, by the organization computing system from a client computing system, one or more streams of end user transaction data comprising one or more transactions at a facility or organization associated with the client computing system; analyzing, by the organization computing system, each of the one or more transactions to identify which transactions triggered completion of a hurdle for each end user device; monitoring, by the organization computing system, each end user's progress in the personalized game; based on the monitoring, generating, by the organization computing system, one or more new versions of machine learning models, the one or more new versions of machine learning models configured to assign one or more offers to one or more end users and personalize each of the one or more offers for each end user.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein initiating, by the organization computing system, the campaign comprising one or more offers, comprises: mapping the one or more offers to an end user computing device, each of the one or more offers.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: personalizing each of the one or more offers based on the end user computing device to which each of the one or more offers was mapped.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein each personalized game is personalized based on end user attribute information associated with each respective end user computing device.
13. The method of claim 9, further comprising: based on the monitoring, pausing, by the organization computing system, user of previous machine learning models.
14. A non-transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon, which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a method of customizing end user gaming experience, comprising: receiving a campaign creation request from a client computing system, the campaign creation request comprising one or more parameters of a campaign associated with the campaign request; creating the campaign based on the one or more parameters associated with the campaign request; personalizing one or more offers for an end user of one or more end users, each of the one or more offers comprising a game having one or more hurdles, wherein completion of each of the one or more hurdles leads to a reward; mapping a subset of the one or more personalized offers to each end user; pushing the one or more personalized offers to each respective end user device; monitoring each end user's progression in a respective game; and updating each user's progression.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the one or more parameters comprises a campaign objective.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the campaign requests further comprises end user attribute information.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein mapping one or more offers to an end user, comprises: mapping each of the one or more offers to an end user based on end user attribute information using a machine learning algorithm.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein personalizing each of the one or more offers, comprises: personalizing each of the one or more offers based on end user attribute information.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein monitoring each end user's progression in a respective offer, comprises: receiving one or more streams of end user transaction data, wherein end user transaction data comprises transactions occurring at a facility or organization associated with client computing system; for each end user transaction in the one or more streams of end user transaction data, identifying whether each transaction satisfies a hurdle in the game.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the operation further comprising: generating one or more new offers based on each end user's progression in a respective game using a machine learning model by: identifying a subset of the one or more offers that exceed a threshold engagement level; and creating one or more new offers based on variants of the one or more offers that exceed the threshold engagement level.
</claims>
</document>
