<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F30/17
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
SIEMENS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROSSIGNAC, JAROSLAW
DALLORO, LIVIO
ALLEN, GEORGE
MUSUVATHY, Suraj Ravi
GUPTA, Ashish
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63788003
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
QUADOR: QUADRIC-OF-REVOLUTION BEAMS FOR LATTICES
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for constructing structures using beams bounded by quadric surfaces of revolution includes generating a quador beam within a computer-aided design (CAD) tool. The quador beam comprises two spheres at opposing endpoints, and the beam is bounded by a quadric surface of revolution around an axis of symmetry joining the center of the two spheres. The quadric surface of revolution abuts with tangent continuity with the surface of each of the spheres. Once generated, the quador beam can be visualized in the CAD tool or another display medium.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for constructing structures using beams bounded by quadric surfaces of revolution, the method comprising: generating a quador beam within a computer-aided design (CAD) tool, wherein (i) the quador beam comprises two spheres at opposing endpoints, (ii) the quador beam is bounded by a quadric surface of revolution around an axis of symmetry joining the center of the two spheres, and (iii) the quadric surface of revolution abuts with tangent continuity with the surface of each of the spheres; and displaying a visualization of the quador beam.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the quadric surface of revolution is defined by a profile curve and an axis of revolution passing through the center of the spheres.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the profile curve is a straight line or conic curve having an axis of symmetry coincident with the axis of symmetry of the quador beam.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the shape of the quador beam is controlled by the radius of a third sphere placed between the two spheres and the quadric surface of revolution is tangent to the third sphere.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the shape of each quador beam is controlled by a waist thickness parameter defined as the maximum or minimum diameter of the cross-section of the quador beam across the length of the quador beam.
6. A computer-implemented method for constructing structures using beams bounded by quadric surfaces of revolution, the method comprising: generating a plurality of quador beams within a computer-aided design (CAD) tool, wherein (i) each quador beam comprises two spheres at opposing endpoints, (ii) each quador beam is bounded by a quadric surface of revolution around an axis of symmetry joining the center of the two spheres, and (iii) the quadric surface of revolution of each quador beam abuts with tangent continuity with the surface of each of the spheres; constructing a lattice from a set of balls and the plurality of quador beams, wherein each quador beam connects an arbitrary pair of the balls; and displaying a visualization of the lattice.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein, to construct the lattice, each quador beam of the lattice is split into to two stumps by a splitting plane normal to the axis of symmetry of the quador beam.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the splitting plane passes through a point on the axis of symmetry of the quador beam which is at an equal distance from the surface of the two spheres of the quador beam.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the splitting plane passes through a point on the axis of symmetry of the quador beam where the quador beam has a minimum or maximum thickness.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the lattice comprises a plurality of hubs and each hub comprises a union of a ball included in the set of balls and one or more stumps.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the lattice is constructed in a manner that allows an exact computation of a boundary representation of each hub comprising faces, edges, and vertices bounding the hub.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the faces of the boundary representation are defined as the intersection of a portion of a quador beam with a trimming polyhedron specified as the intersection of a specific set of linear half-spaces.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein (a) each stump of the hub comprises a quador surface defined as a portion of the quadric surface of revolution remaining on the stump after splitting the quador beam and (b) the edges of the boundary representation are defined as the intersection of the spherical surface of a ball of the hub or the quador surface of a stump of the hub by a plane.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein (a) each stump of the hub comprises a quador surface defined as a portion of the quadric surface of revolution remaining on the stump after splitting the quador beam and (b) the vertices of the boundary representation are defined as intersection of a line with the spherical surface of the ball or the quador surface of a stump of the hub.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the lattice is represented as an assembly of its hubs.
16. A computer-implemented method for constructing structures using beams bounded by a series of quadric surfaces of revolution, the method comprising: generating a multi-quador beam within a computer-aided design (CAD) tool, wherein (i) the multi-quador beam comprises two spheres at opposing endpoints, (ii) the multi-quador beam is bounded by a plurality of quadric surfaces of revolution around an axis of symmetry joining the center of the two spheres, (iii) the surface of the first sphere abuts with tangent continuity with the first surface in the series of quador surfaces and the second sphere abuts with tangent continuity with the last surface in the series of quador surfaces and (iv) the plurality of quadric surfaces of revolution are smoothly connected with tangent continuity within each multi-quador beam; and displaying a visualization of the multi-quador beam.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein each of the quadric surfaces of revolution are defined by a profile curve and an axis of revolution passing through the center of the two spheres.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the profile curve is a straight line or conic curve having an axis of symmetry coincident with the axis of symmetry of the multi-quador beam.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein a series of intermediate balls are introduced between the two spheres at opposing endpoints, such that the two quador surfaces, one on either side an intermediate ball connects tangentially to each other and to the intermediate ball in a single contact plane.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the shape of a multi-quador beam is controlled by the radius, the position of center on beam's axis, and the position of contact-plane, of any of the intermediate balls of the beam.
21. 21-30. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
