<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/106,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BLUEOWL
</assignee>

<inventors>
OKSENDAHL, HANS
SCHWABACHER, CHARLES O.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72046088
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DECLARATIVE INTERFACE FOR INTERACTION DESIGN
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and Methods of the current disclosure may provide customized webpages. A client device of the system may retrieve a profile corresponding to a user. The client device may further receive a deck including a set of packs, with each pack including a set of cards. As defined herein, a deck corresponds to a workflow (i.e., a series of webpages), while each pack includes context specific user-interface elements which make up a webpage. Further, a card may correspond to one or more elements of the webpage. The client device renders and displays webpages locally by selecting elements to be displayed on the webpage based on a details corresponding to a user of the client device. In other words, the client device creates webpages by selecting one or more cards for each pack of the deck based on details indicated in the profile.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A computer-implemented method for rendering customized webpages, the method comprising: retrieving a deck corresponding to a series of webpages, the deck comprising a set of packs, wherein: each pack of the set of packs corresponds to a single webpage in the series of webpages; each pack of the set of packs includes a set of cards corresponding to one or more elements to be rendered in the single webpage; and each card of the set of cards includes a linkage indication corresponding to an amount of linkages between each card of the set of cards to one or more other cards of a plurality of cards in the deck; assigning a weight to each card of the set of cards based at least in part upon their linkage indication such that a larger weight corresponds to a greater amount of linkages and a lower weight corresponds to a lesser amount of linkages; selecting, for a first pack of the set of packs, one or more cards from the respective set of cards based at least in part upon the weight of each card; rendering a first webpage corresponding to the first pack based on the corresponding selected one or more cards for the first pack; and displaying, via a user-interface of a client device, the first webpage.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, via the user-interface of the client device, one or more user inputs; and selecting one or more cards from the set of cards corresponding to a second pack from the deck based on the profile and the one or more user inputs.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each card of the set of cards includes an indication of a reference to one or more other cards of the set of cards.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each card of the set of cards is a function including a configuration section.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each card of the set of cards includes an indication of one of a graphic display, a text input field, a selectable icon, a selectable link, a font, a color, and a layout.
26. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting, via a computer network, an indication of each card of the one or more selected cards for the pack of the deck from a server to the client device.
27. The computer-implemented method of claim 26, further comprising: storing, at a database communicatively coupled to the server, the indication of each card of the selected one or more cards; and altering, the weight assigned to each card of the selected one or more cards.
28. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the selecting one or more cards includes: selecting, for the first pack of the set of packs, one or more cards from the respective set of cards based at least in part upon the weight of each card and a user profile.
29. A system for rendering customized webpages, the system comprising: a client device; and a server including one or more processors and one or more memories including instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, causes the server to perform: retrieving a deck corresponding to a series of webpages, the deck comprising a set of packs, wherein: each pack of the set of packs corresponds to a single webpage in the series of webpages; each pack of the set of packs includes a set of cards corresponding to one or more elements to be rendered in the single webpage; and each card of the set of cards includes a linkage indication corresponding to an amount of linkages between each card of the set of cards to one or more other cards of a plurality of cards in the deck; assigning a weight to each card of the set of cards based at least in part upon their linkage indication such that a larger weight corresponds to a greater amount of linkages and a lower weight corresponds to a lesser amount of linkages; selecting, for a first pack of the set of packs, one or more cards from the respective set of cards based at least in part upon the weight of each card; rendering a first webpage corresponding to the first pack based on the corresponding selected one or more cards for the first pack; and displaying, via a user-interface of a client device, the first webpage.
30. The system of claim 29, wherein the one or more memories, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the server to perform: receiving, via the user-interface of the client device, one or more user inputs; and selecting one or more cards from the set of cards corresponding to a second pack from the deck based on the profile and the one or more user inputs.
31. The system of claim 29, wherein each card of the set of cards includes an indication of a reference to one or more other cards of the set of cards.
32. The system of claim 29, wherein each card of the set of cards is a function including a configuration section.
33. The system of claim 29, wherein each card of the set of cards includes an indication of one of a graphic display, a text input field, a selectable icon, a selectable link, a font, a color, and a layout.
34. The system of claim 29, wherein the one or more memories, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the server to perform: transmitting, to the client device via a computer network, an indication of each card of the one or more selected cards for the pack of the deck from a server to the client device.
35. The system of claim 34, wherein the one or more memories, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the server to perform: storing, at a database communicatively coupled to the server, the indication of each card of the selected one or more cards; and altering, the weight assigned to each card of the selected one or more cards.
36. The system of claim 34, wherein the selecting one or more cards includes: selecting, for the first pack of the set of packs, one or more cards from the respective set of cards based at least in part upon the weight of each card and a user profile.
37. A tangible computer-readable medium including non-transitory computer readable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to perform: retrieving a deck corresponding to a series of webpages, the deck comprising a set of packs, wherein: each pack of the set of packs corresponds to a single webpage in the series of webpages; each pack of the set of packs includes a set of cards corresponding to one or more elements to be rendered in the single webpage; and each card of the set of cards includes a linkage indication corresponding to an amount of linkages between each card of the set of cards to one or more other cards of a plurality of cards in the deck; assigning a weight to each card of the set of cards based at least in part upon their linkage indication such that a larger weight corresponds to a greater amount of linkages and a lower weight corresponds to a lesser amount of linkages; selecting, for a first pack of the set of packs, one or more cards from the respective set of cards based at least in part upon the weight of each card; rendering a first webpage corresponding to the first pack based on the corresponding selected one or more cards for the first pack; and displaying, via a user-interface of a client device, the first webpage.
38. The tangible computer-readable medium, when executed by one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to perform: receiving, via the user-interface of the client device, one or more user inputs; and selecting one or more cards from the set of cards corresponding to a second pack from the deck based on the profile and the one or more user inputs.
39. The tangible computer-readable medium of claim 37, wherein a card of the set of cards includes an indication of a reference to one or more other cards of the set of cards.
40. The tangible computer-readable medium of claim 37, wherein each card of the set of cards is a function including a configuration section.
</claims>
</document>
