<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G16Y40/10,H04L29/06,H04W4/021,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Dean, R. Thomas
</assignee>

<inventors>
Dean, R. Thomas
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74065898
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SECURITY MODEL USING INTEGRATED TECHNOLOGY
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods and computer-readable storage media utilized for institution security based on a security model in a computer network environment. One method includes receiving, by one or more processing circuits, data from one or more IoT devices associated with an institution. The method further includes determining, by the one or more processing circuits, a total count of people within an area. The method further includes determining, by the one or more processing circuits, a location for each people within the area. The method further includes identifying, by the one or more processing circuits, each people within the area and generating, by the one or more processing circuits, a security report.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for providing security services, comprising: at least one computing device operably coupled to at least one memory configured to: receive data from one or more IoT devices associated with an institution; determine a total count of people within an area; determine a location for each people within the area; identify each people within the area; and generate a security report.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computing device operably coupled to the at least one memory is further configured to: identify each people within the area based analyzing profiles from a database.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computing device operably coupled to the at least one memory is further configured to: register, by a user device, a first user at the institution; send, by the user device, biometric information of the first user; receive, via a universal credential management system, a plurality of roles and an authorization code; provide, by the user device, the authorization code to the institution; and receive, via the universal credential management system, a confirmation that access was granted to the institution.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the security report includes the total count of people, the location of each people, and an identification of each people within the area.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computing device operably coupled to the at least one memory is further configured to: receive, by a user device, certification information associated with a second user; authorize the received certification information; and in response to authorizing the certification information, send the certification information to a plurality of institutions comprising at least the institution.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computing device operably coupled to the at least one memory is further configured to: determine whether there is suspicious people within the area using the total count of people and identification of each people.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computing device operably coupled to the at least one memory is further configured to: determine an event location of an event associated with the area.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computing device operably coupled to the at least one memory is further configured to: receive first permission information and a first plurality of roles associated with the institution; receive second permission information and a second plurality of roles associated with a second institution; determine an assignment of a customized plurality of roles to a user, wherein the user is associated with the institution and the second institution; and generate an authorization code for the user, wherein the authorization code provides access to the institution and the second institution.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computing device operably coupled to the at least one memory is further configured to: receiving, via a user device, a user identity; and determine a time for the user identity and storing the location, the time and the user identity.
10. A method of institution security based on a security model in a computer network environment, the method comprising: receiving, by one or more processing circuits, data from one or more IoT devices associated with an institution; determining, by the one or more processing circuits, a total count of people within an area; determining, by the one or more processing circuits, a location for each people within the area; identifying, by the one or more processing circuits, each people within the area; and generating, by the one or more processing circuits, a security report.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising, identifying, by the one or more processing circuits, each people within the area based analyzing profiles from a database.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising: registering, by the one or more processing circuits, a first user at the institution; sending, by the one or more processing circuits, biometric information of the first user; receiving, by the one or more processing circuits via a universal credential management system, a plurality of roles and an authorization code; providing, by the one or more processing circuits to a user device of the first user, the authorization code to the institution; and receiving, by the one or more processing circuits via the universal credential management system, a confirmation that access was granted to the institution.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the security report includes the total count of people, the location of each people, and an identification of each people within the area.
14. The method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving, by the one or more processing circuits via a user device, certification information associated with a second user; authorizing, by the one or more processing circuits, the received certification information; and in response to authorizing the certification information, sending, by the one or more processing circuits, the certification information to a plurality of institutions comprising at least the institution.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising: determining, by the one or more processing circuits, whether there is suspicious people within the area using the total count of people and identification of each people.
16. The method of claim 10, further comprising: determining, by the one or more processing circuits, an event location of an event associated with the area.
17. The method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving, by the one or more processing circuits, first permission information and a first plurality of roles associated with the institution; receiving, by the one or more processing circuits, second permission information and a second plurality of roles associated with a second institution; determining, by the one or more processing circuits, an assignment of a customized plurality of roles to a user, wherein the user is associated with the institution and the second institution; and generating, by the one or more processing circuits, an authorization code for the user, wherein the authorization code provides access to the institution and the second institution.
18. The method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving, by the one or more processing circuits via a user device, a user identity; and determining, by the one or more processing circuits, a time for the user identity and storing the location, the time and the user identity.
19. One or more computer-readable storage media having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: receiving data from one or more IoT devices associated with an institution; determining a total count of people within an area; determining a location for each people within the area; identifying each people within the area; and generating a security report.
20. The one or more computer-readable storage media of claim 19, the operations further comprising: registering a first user at the institution; sending biometric information of the first user; receiving, via a universal credential management system, a plurality of roles and an authorization code; providing, to a user device of the first user, the authorization code to the institution; and receiving, via the universal credential management system, a confirmation that access was granted to the institution.
</claims>
</document>
