<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NURO
</assignee>

<inventors>
GAND, FRANCOIS
KUMAR, ABHINAV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64658725
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NEURAL OPERATING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Methods of and systems for human interactions with a computer operating system using neurological signals from a human brain are described. In one embodiment, the system comprises a modified computer operating system and a method of capturing, reading and interpreting live human brain-based signals to navigate throughout, interact with and operate the computer operating system without the need of a traditional computer keyboard, computer mouse or other past or current computer operating system natively-supported input methods, and also without the need for any electronic hardware device calibration per end-user or software calibration per end-user and without the need for any preliminary brain state recording or any neurological signal training within the computer operating system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-2. (canceled)
3. A method to use human brain-based neurological signals to control a computer operating system.
4. 4-6. (canceled)
7. The method of claim 3, further comprising: processing, filtering and classifying neural commands from a human brain into active computer commands for the neurologically-based functioning of a computer operating system.
8. 8-9. (canceled)
10. The method of claim 3, wherein an end-user uses human brain-based neurological signals to perform at least one of: downloading external computer data, and/or downloading or digitally streaming and subsequently playing a music or video data file into the computer operating system, a computer hardware application or a computer software application.
11. 11-13. (canceled)
14. The method of claim 3, wherein the computer operating system is configured to receive human brain-based neurological signals and broadcast and communicate, via the use of the computer operating system, the user's state of at least one of physical health, mental health, cognitive alertness, mental stress, fear, and/or physiological description of one or more sudden injuries to another user or another computer operating system, computer hardware and/or computer software application.
15. 15-19. (canceled)
20. The method of claim 3, wherein the operating system is configured to receive human brain-based neurological signals to alert another user or another computer operating system of an algorithmically-predicted variable state of potential to immediate danger.
21. The method of claim 3, wherein the operating system is configured to receive human brain-based neurological signals to communicate with another user utilizing at least one of a neurologically-controlled embedded live video-conferencing software application, and embedded pre-recorded audio-visual messages.
22. (canceled)
23. The method of claim 3, wherein an end-user is capable of using human brain-based neurological signals to control and operate the computer operating system by locating pre-programmed computer code and targeting and launching the technical execution of said code via the use of an embedded neurologically-controlled digital radar computer code-locating interface.
24. The method of claim 3 wherein an end-user is capable of using human brain-based neurological signals via the use of the computer operating system to communicate with another user by utilizing a virtual keyboard to type a text message with a non-assisted, non-archived, non-predictive, non-P300 Event-Related Potential Brain-to-Computer Interface system for slower conventional character spelling method, said virtual keyboard being f neurologically-controlled by an embedded digital radar letter-locating interface.
25. The method of claim 3, wherein an end-user is capable of using human brain-based neurological signals via the use of the computer operating system to communicate with another user by utilizing a virtual keyboard to type a digitally-assisted predictive text-based message with a non-P300 Brain-to-Computer Interface system for character spelling method, said keyboard being neurologically-controlled by an embedded digital radar letter-locating and word-locating interface.
26. The method of claim 3, wherein the computer operating system is controlled by human brain-based neurological signals to locate, select, prioritize, schedule, organize, store and display independently in the computer user interface via machine-learning algorithms external content in a digital form to an end-user based on at least one of end-user demographic data, pattern recognitions by the computer operating system navigation by the end-user, pattern recognitions by the computer operating system usage trends by the end-user, frequency and repetition levels of historically-identical or similarly-accessed content by the end-user, physical health of the end-user at the time of interaction between the end-user and the computer operating system, mental health of the end-user at the time of interaction between the end-user and the computer operating system, and/or end-user preferences and end-user demographic data.
27. 27-36. (canceled)
37. The method of claim 3, wherein the computer operating system is controlled by human brain-based neurological signals to allow an end-user to communicate with another user remotely located to receive at least one of technical support or expert professional advice, emergency medical assistance, emergency medical transportation assistance, emergency police assistance, and/or emergency firefighting assistance.
38. 38-41. (canceled)
42. The method of claim 3, wherein the computer operating system controlled by human brain-based neurological signals allows an end-user to at least one of: log in to an online social media messaging platform to interact with other users; log in to an online live videoconferencing platform; access video and/or audio content; access of control software gaming applications; access or control an internet web browser application; access or control home-based automations; and/or access financial records and/or initiate financial transactions.
43. 43-50. (canceled)
51. The method of claim 3, whereby the computer operating system controlled by human brain-based neurological signals has a graphic computer interface controlled by the interactive positioning and the interactive execution of computer code represented by a graphic or set of graphics linearly or radially moving or translating within a graphical grid-like representation of the computer operating system's graphic user interface or parts thereof.
52. The method of claim 3, whereby a computer operating system controlled by human brain-based neurological signals has a graphical grid-like representation of the computer operating system's graphic user interface or parts thereof acting as a two-dimensional receptor of a computer code execution.
53. The method of claim 3, whereby the computer operating system controlled by human brain-based neurological signals has a two-dimensional receptor of a code execution in the graphical form of a grid whereas each cell of the grid is an independent physical area able to be activated by the original code execution and subsequently generate an automatic secondary subroutine nested code execution, itself capable of launching and executing further subroutine nested code executions either processed locally by the computer operating system or the computer operating system's graphic user interface or processed externally by other third-party independent electronic systems upon receipt.
54. The method of claim 3, whereby the computer operating system controlled by human brain-based neurological signals has the ability to discern or prioritize a code execution initiated by an interaction between two or more graphical elements by calculating the mathematical difference and/or the physical distance between each of the geometrical centers of the graphical elements within the computer operating system's graphical user interface.
55. The method of claim 3, wherein the computer operating system is configured to determine over time specific trends via machine learning techniques, including filtering neurological data via at least one of artificial neural networks, mathematical or waveform algorithmic analysis, or specific signature extraction, wherein the neurological data includes at least one of electroencephalography data and/or electrooculography data.
56. The method of claim 3, wherein the computer operating system is configured to modify its functionality over time based on a determination of specific trends via machine learning techniques, said machine learning techniques including filtering neurological data via at least one of artificial neural networks, mathematical or waveform algorithmic analysis, or specific signature extraction, wherein the neurological data includes at least one of electroencephalography data and/or electrooculography data.
57. A computing device comprising: a processor; and a memory having stored thereon computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to use human brain-based neurological signals to control a computer operating system.
58. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon processor-executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to use human brain-based neurological signals to control a computer operating system.
</claims>
</document>
