<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06F16/903,G06N20/00,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CORREIA VILLA REAL, LUCAS
FONTOURA DE GUSMAO CERQUEIRA, RENATO
DE MELLO BRANDAO, RAFAEL ROSSI
FERREIRA MORENO, MARCIO
SALLES CIVITARESE, DANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72042175
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING ENGINEERING THROUGH HYBRID KNOWLEDGE REPRESENTATION
</title>

<abstract>
A hybrid knowledge representation is searched for a machine learning component corresponding to a search query. The hybrid knowledge representation may be structured as nodes representing machine learning workflow components and edges (e.g., links) connecting the nodes based on relationships between the nodes. Responsive to finding the machine learning component in the hybrid knowledge representation, the machine learning component is returned. Responsive to not finding the machine learning component in the hybrid knowledge representation, the hybrid knowledge representation is searched for machine learning model fragments associated with building the machine learning component, generating a new machine learning component by combining the machine learning model fragments and returning the new machine learning component.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving a specification; parsing the specification and identifying from the specification a machine learning task; searching a hybrid knowledge representation stored in a memory device for a machine learning model that performs the machine learning task, the hybrid knowledge representation structured as nodes representing machine learning workflow components and edges connecting the nodes based on relationships between the nodes; responsive to not finding the machine learning model in the hybrid knowledge representation, searching the hybrid knowledge representation for machine learning model fragments associated with the machine learning task, and generating a new machine learning model to perform the machine learning task by combining the machine learning model fragments.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: responsive to not finding the machine learning model in the hybrid knowledge representation, automatically generating a dataset for the new machine learning model.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein responsive to finding the machine learning model in the hybrid knowledge representation, outputting the machine learning model.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: automatically generating metrics associated with executing the new machine learning model.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the new machine learning model further comprises generating a semantic specification associated with the new machine learning model, the semantic specification comprising metadata annotating semantics of the new machine learning model.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising outputting the machine learning model's workflow indicated by the hybrid knowledge representation's nodes and connecting edges associated with the machine learning model, responsive to finding the machine learning model in the hybrid knowledge representation.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising outputting the new machine learning model's workflow indicated by the hybrid knowledge representation's nodes and connecting edges associated with the new machine learning model, responsive to not finding the machine learning model in the hybrid knowledge representation and responsive to generating the new machine learning model.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising building the hybrid knowledge representation by structuring the machine learning workflow components into a database and creating metadata associated with the machine learning workflow components.
9. A system, comprising: a hardware processor; a memory device operatively coupled with the hardware processor, the memory device storing hybrid knowledge representation structured as nodes representing machine learning workflow components and edges connecting the nodes based on relationships between the nodes; the hardware processor configured to at least: receive a specification; parse the specification and identify from the specification a machine learning task; search the hybrid knowledge representation for a machine learning model that performs the machine learning task; responsive to finding the machine learning model in the hybrid knowledge representation return the machine learning model; responsive to not finding the machine learning model in the hybrid knowledge representation, search the hybrid knowledge representation for machine learning model fragments associated with the machine learning task, and generate a new machine learning model to perform the machine learning task by combining the machine learning model fragments.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the machine learning workflow components comprise machine learning network topology fragments representing an input layer fragment, an output layer fragment, a data transformation fragment, and a task-purpose fragment.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the machine learning workflow components further comprise a data pre-processing component that generates at least one of a training dataset, a test dataset, and a validation dataset.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to: responsive to not finding the machine learning model in the hybrid knowledge representation, automatically generate a dataset for the new machine learning model based on the hybrid knowledge representation.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the machine learning workflow components further comprise a metrics generation component that generates metrics associated with results produced by running at least one of: the machine learning model and the new machine learning model.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to: automatically generate metrics associated with executing one of the machine learning model and the new machine learning model based on the metrics generation component.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the hardware processor is configured to generate a semantic specification associated with the new machine learning model responsive to generating the new machine learning model, the semantic specification indicating metadata annotating semantics of the new machine learning model.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to output the machine learning model's workflow indicated by the hybrid knowledge representation's nodes and connected edges associated with the machine learning model, responsive to finding the machine learning model in the hybrid knowledge representation.
17. The system of claim 9, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to output the new machine learning model's workflow indicated by the hybrid knowledge representation's nodes and connected edges associated with the new machine learning model, responsive to not finding the machine learning model in the hybrid knowledge representation and responsive to generating the new machine learning model.
18. The system of claim 9, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to build the hybrid knowledge representation by structuring the machine learning workflow components into a database and creating metadata associated with the machine learning workflow components.
19. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a device to cause the device to: receive, by the device, a search query; search, by the device, a hybrid knowledge representation stored on a memory device for a machine learning component corresponding to the search query, the hybrid knowledge representation structured as nodes representing machine learning workflow components and links connecting the nodes based on relationships between the nodes; responsive to finding the machine learning component in the hybrid knowledge representation, return, by the device, the machine learning component; responsive to not finding the machine learning component in the hybrid knowledge representation, search, by the device, the hybrid knowledge representation for machine learning model fragments associated with building the machine learning component, generate, by the device, a new machine learning component by combining the machine learning model fragments and return the new machine learning component.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the machine learning component comprises at least one of: a dataset, a machine learning model, and metrics; and wherein machine learning model fragments comprise at least one of: a subset of a dataset and a sub-part of a machine learning model.
</claims>
</document>
