<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/23,G06F16/27,G06F9/54,G06N20/00,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/00,G06Q30/02,G06Q40/02,G06Q40/08,G06Q50/18,G06Q50/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRONG FORCE TX PORTFOLIO 2018
</assignee>

<inventors>
CELLA, CHARLES HOWARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971459
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTOMATIC CLASSIFICATION OF LOAN REFINANCING INTERACTIONS AND OUTCOMES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for automatic classification of loan refinancing interactions and outcomes are disclosed. An example system may include a data collection circuit to collect a training set of loan interactions between entities, wherein the training set of loan interactions comprises a set of loan refinancing activities and a set of loan refinancing outcomes; an artificial intelligence circuit to classify the set of loan refinancing activities, wherein the artificial intelligence circuit is trained on the training set of loan interactions; and a robotic process automation circuit to perform a second loan refinancing activity on behalf of a party to a second loan, wherein the robotic process automation circuit is trained on the set of loan refinancing activities and the set of loan refinancing outcomes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a data collection circuit structured to collect a training set of loan interactions between entities, wherein the training set of loan interactions comprises a set of loan refinancing activities and a set of loan refinancing outcomes; an artificial intelligence circuit structured to classify the set of loan refinancing activities, wherein the artificial intelligence circuit is trained on the training set of loan interactions; and a robotic process automation circuit structured to perform a second loan refinancing activity on behalf of a party to a second loan, wherein the robotic process automation circuit is trained on the set of loan refinancing activities and the set of loan refinancing outcomes.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one loan refinancing activity of the set of loan refinancing activities is selected from a group consisting of: initiating an offer to refinance, initiating a request to refinance, configuring a refinancing interest rate, configuring a refinancing payment schedule, configuring a refinancing balance, configuring collateral for a refinancing, managing use of proceeds of a refinancing, removing or placing a lien associated with a refinancing, verifying title for a refinancing, managing an inspection process, populating an application, negotiating terms and conditions for a refinancing, or closing a refinancing.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the data collection circuit comprises at least one system selected from systems consisting of: Internet of Things systems that monitor the entities, a set of cameras that monitor the entities, a set of software services that pull information related to the entities from publicly available information sites, a set of mobile devices that report on information related to the entities, a set of wearable devices worn by human entities, a set of user interfaces by which entities provide information about the entities and a set of crowdsourcing services configured to solicit and report information related to the entities.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one entity of the entities is a party to at least one loan refinancing activity of the set of loan refinancing activities.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the party is at least one party selected from a group consisting of: a primary lender, a secondary lender, a lending syndicate, a corporate lender, a government lender, a bank lender, a secured lender, bond issuer, a bond purchaser, an unsecured lender, a guarantor, a provider of security, a borrower, a debtor, an underwriter, an inspector, an assessor, an auditor, a valuation professional, a government official, or an accountant.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the artificial intelligence circuit comprises at least one system selected from systems consisting of: a machine learning system, a model-based system, a rule-based system, a deep learning system, a hybrid system, a neural network, a convolutional neural network, a feed forward neural network, a feedback neural network, a self-organizing map, a fuzzy logic system, a random walk system, a random forest system, a probabilistic system, a Bayesian system, or a simulation system.
7. The system of claim 1, further comprising an interface circuit structured to receive interactions from at least one of the entities and wherein the robotic process automation circuit is further trained on the interactions.
8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a smart contract circuit structured to determine completion of the second loan refinancing activity, and to modify a smart refinance contract based on an outcome of the second loan refinancing activity.
9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a distributed ledger circuit structured to determine an event associated with the second loan refinancing activity, and to record, in a distributed ledger associated with the second loan, the event associated with the second loan refinancing activity.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the second loan comprises at least one loan selected from a group consisting of: an auto loan, an inventory loan, a capital equipment loan, a bond for performance, a capital improvement loan, a building loan, a loan backed by an account receivable, an invoice finance arrangement, a factoring arrangement, a pay day loan, a refund anticipation loan, a student loan, a syndicated loan, a title loan, a home loan, a venture debt loan, a loan of intellectual property, a loan of a contractual claim, a working capital loan, a small business loan, a farm loan, a municipal bond, or a subsidized loan.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the artificial intelligence circuit includes at least one system from systems consisting of: a machine learning system, a model-based system, a rule-based system, a deep learning system, a hybrid system, a neural network, a convolutional neural network, a feed forward neural network, a feedback neural network, a self-organizing map, a fuzzy logic system, a random walk system, a random forest system, a probabilistic system, a Bayesian system, and a simulation system.
12. A method, comprising: collecting a training set of loan interactions between entities, wherein the training set of loan interactions comprises a set of loan refinancing activities and a set of loan refinancing outcomes; classifying the set of loan refinancing activities based at least in part on the training set of loan interactions; and specifying a second loan refinancing activity on behalf of a party to a second loan based at least in part on the set of loan refinancing activities and the set of loan refinancing outcomes.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein at least one loan refinancing activity of the set of loan refinancing activities is selected from a list of loan refinancing activities consisting of: initiating an offer to refinance, initiating a request to refinance, configuring a refinancing interest rate, configuring a refinancing payment schedule, configuring a refinancing balance, configuring collateral for a refinancing, managing use of proceeds of a refinancing, removing or placing a lien associated with a refinancing, verifying title for a refinancing, managing an inspection process, populating an application, and negotiating terms and conditions for a refinancing.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein at least one entity of the entities is a party to at least one loan refinancing activity of the set of loan refinancing activities.
15. The method of claim 12, further comprising receiving interactions from at least one of the entities, and wherein the classifying is further trained on the interactions.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the party is at least one party selected from a group consisting of: a primary lender, a secondary lender, a lending syndicate, a corporate lender, a government lender, a bank lender, a secured lender, bond issuer, a bond purchaser, an unsecured lender, a guarantor, a provider of security, a borrower, a debtor, an underwriter, an inspector, an assessor, an auditor, a valuation professional, a government official, or an accountant.
17. The method of claim 12, further comprising performing the specified second loan refinancing activity.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining completion of the second loan refinancing activity; and modifying a smart refinance contract based on an outcome of the second loan refinancing activity.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising recording, in a distributed ledger associated with the second loan, one of the modified smart refinance contract or a reference to the modified smart refinance contract.
20. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining an event associated with the second loan refinancing activity; and recording, in a distributed ledger associated with the second loan, the event associated with the second loan refinancing activity.
</claims>
</document>
