<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/18,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAE, JONG HOON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66847310
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR RECOGNIZING A VOICE
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are a speech recognition method and a speech recognition device, in which speech recognition is performed by executing an artificial intelligence (AI) algorithm and/or a machine learning algorithm provided therein. According to one embodiment, the speech recognition method includes buffering a spoken utterance, extracting a standby wake-up word corresponding to a preset wake-up word from the spoken utterance by comparing the buffered spoken utterance to the preset wake-up word, analyzing the role of the standby wake-up word in the spoken utterance, determining the speech intent in uttering the standby wake-up word by using results of analyzing the role of the standby wake-up word, and determining whether to execute a spoken sentence as a voice command in the spoken utterance and processing the spoken sentence accordingly.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A speech recognition method by a speech recognition device, the speech recognition method comprising: buffering a spoken utterance; extracting a standby wake-up word from the buffered spoken utterance by comparing the buffered spoken utterance to a preset wake-up word, the standby wake-up word corresponding to the preset wake-up word; analyzing a role of the standby wake-up word in the spoken utterance; determining a speech intent in uttering the standby wake-up word by using results of analyzing the role of the standby wake-up word; and determining whether to execute a spoken sentence as a voice command in the spoken utterance, according to results of determining the speech intent in uttering the standby wake-up word, and processing the spoken sentence accordingly.
2. The speech recognition method of claim 1, wherein the buffering includes buffering the spoken utterance containing a pause between the standby wake-up word and the spoken sentence, the pause being shorter than a preset duration.
3. The speech recognition method of claim 1, wherein the buffering further includes buffering the spoken utterance by varying a buffering volume or time in accordance with a condition under which the spoken utterance is inputted.
4. The speech recognition method of claim 1, wherein the analyzing includes analyzing the role of the standby wake-up word, based on named-entity recognition or natural-language processing of the spoken utterance, the natural-language processing including one or more selected from among morphological segmentation, part-of-speech tagging, sentence breaking, and parsing.
5. The speech recognition method of claim 1, wherein the determining includes determining, by using the results of analyzing the role of the standby wake-up word, whether the standby wake-up word is uttered as a deliberate wake-up word or as an inadvertent wake-up word in the spoken utterance.
6. The speech recognition method of claim 5, wherein the processing includes activating a speech recognition function, and processing and executing the spoken sentence if the standby wake-up word is uttered as the deliberate wake-up word.
7. The speech recognition method of claim 5, wherein the processing includes causing a speech recognition function to remain inactive if the standby wake-up word is uttered as the inadvertent wake-up word.
8. The speech recognition method of claim 1, further comprising, if the results of determining the speech intent in uttering the standby wake-up word indicate that the standby wake-up word is uttered as a deliberate wake-up word, isolating the spoken sentence without the deliberate wake-up word from the spoken utterance
9. The speech recognition method of claim 8, wherein the isolating includes at least one selected from: isolating, from the spoken utterance, the spoken sentence preceding the deliberate wake-up word; isolating, from the spoken utterance, the spoken sentence following the deliberate wake-up word; isolating, from the spoken utterance, first and second spoken segments without the deliberate wake-up word positioned within the spoken sentence, the first spoken segment preceding the deliberate wake-up word and the second spoken segment following the deliberate wake-up word; and isolating, from the spoken utterance containing two or more spoken sentences, the two or more spoken sentences without the deliberate wake-up word positioned between the two or more spoken sentences.
10. A computer program, stored in a recording medium readable by a computer for permitting the speech recognition method of claim 1 to be executed by the computer.
11. A speech recognition device configured to recognize an inputted spoken utterance, the speech recognition device comprising: a buffer configured to buffer the spoken utterance; an extractor configured to extract, from the spoken utterance, a standby wake-up word corresponding to a preset wake-up word by comparing the buffered spoken utterance to the preset wake-up word; an analyzer configured to analyze a role of the standby wake-up word within the spoken utterance; a determiner configured to determine a speech intent in uttering the standby wake-up word by using results of analyzing the role of the standby wake-up word; and a controller configured to determine, by using results of determining the speech intent in uttering the standby wake-up word, whether to execute a spoken sentence as a voice command in the spoken utterance, and configured to control processing of the spoken sentence.
12. The speech recognition device of claim 11, wherein the buffer is configured to buffer the spoken utterance containing a pause between the standby wake-up word and the spoken sentence, the pause being shorter than a preset duration.
13. The speech recognition device of claim 11, further comprising a variator configured to vary a buffering volume or time of the buffer in accordance with a condition under which the spoken utterance is inputted.
14. The speech recognition device of claim 11, wherein the analyzer is configured to analyze the role of the standby wake-up word, based on named-entity recognition or natural language processing of the spoken utterance, wherein the natural language processing performs one or more selected from among morphological segmentation, part-of-speech tagging, sentence breaking, and parsing.
15. The speech recognition device of claim 11, wherein the determiner is configured to determine, by using the results of analyzing the role of the standby wake-up word, whether the standby wake-up word is uttered as a deliberate wake-up word or as an inadvertent wake-up word within the spoken utterance.
16. The speech recognition device of claim 15, wherein the controller is configured to activate a speech recognition function and control processing and execution of the spoken sentence if the standby wake-up word is uttered as the deliberate wake-up word.
17. The speech recognition device of claim 15, wherein the controller is configured to control such that a speech recognition function remains inactive, if the standby wake-up word is uttered as the inadvertent wake-up word.
18. The speech recognition device of claim 11, further comprising an isolator, wherein, when the results of determining the speech intent in uttering the standby wake-up word indicate that the standby wake-up word is uttered as a deliberate wake-up word, the isolator is configured to isolate, from the spoken utterance, the spoken sentence without the deliberate wake-up word.
19. The speech recognition device of claim 18, wherein the isolator performs at least one selected from: isolating, from the spoken utterance, the spoken sentence preceding the deliberate wake-up word; isolating, from the spoken utterance, the spoken sentence following the deliberate wake-up word; isolating, from the spoken utterance, first and second spoken segments without the deliberate wake-up word, the first spoken segment preceding the deliberate wake-up word, the second spoken segment following the deliberate wake-up word, and the deliberate wake-up word being positioned between the first spoken segment and the second spoken segment; and from the spoken utterance including two or more spoken sentences, isolating the two or more spoken sentences without the deliberate wake-up word positioned between the two or more spoken sentences.
</claims>
</document>
