<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T11/20,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAHESHWARI, ARVIND KUMAR
PODURI, KUSUMAHARANADH
RAVICHANDRAN, RAGHAV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61620471
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SELECTING AN ANOMALY FOR PRESENTATION AT A USER INTERFACE BASED ON A CONTEXT
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for selecting an anomaly based on a context are disclosed. A set of metrics corresponding to communications with nodes of a computer system are identified. A set of insights are generated based on the set of metrics. A context for determining a primary anomaly is determined. A subset of metrics associated with the context are identified. A subset of insights that are generated based on the subset of metrics are identified. An insight is selected from the subset of insights as the primary anomaly. A visualization associated with the primary anomaly is presented at a user interface. One or more secondary anomalies may be concurrently presented with the visualization. Additionally, the primary anomaly, the selected visualization, and/or the secondary anomaly is used to determine a new context for selecting another primary anomaly. Hence, a series of primary anomalies may be selected, each primary anomaly being related to each other.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. One or more non-transitory machine-readable media storing instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause: identifying a set of entries, in a set of one or more tables, associated with a plurality of metrics and a plurality of attribute values; determining a plurality of insights based on the set of entries, wherein determining the plurality of insights comprises: identifying a first subset of the set of entries that are associated with a first attribute value of the plurality of attribute values; applying a first insight algorithm to the first subset of entries, with respect to a first metric of the plurality of metrics, in order to determine a first insight of the plurality of insights; identifying a second subset of the set of entries that are associated with a second attribute value of the plurality of attribute values; applying a second insight algorithm to the second subset of entries, with respect to a second metric of the plurality of metrics, in order to determine a second insight of the plurality of insights; determining a context for determining a particular insight to be presented on a user interface, wherein the context comprises at least one of the first metric and the first attribute value, and does not comprise the second metric or the second attribute value; identifying relevant insights, from the plurality of insights, that are associated with the context, wherein the relevant insights include the first insight and do not include the second insight; presenting, on the user interface, at least one of the relevant insights that are associated with the context, without presenting any insight not within the relevant insights.
2. The one or more media of claim 1, wherein determining the context comprises: determining historical user interactions with insights associated with the at least one of the first metric and the first attribute value; determining that the context comprises the at least one of the first metric and the first attribute value based on the historical user interactions.
3. The one or more media of claim 1, wherein determining the context comprises: determining a user preference for viewing insights associated with the at least one of the first metric and the first attribute value; determining that the context comprises the at least one of the first metric and the first attribute value based on the user preference.
4. The one or more media of claim 1, wherein determining the context comprises: determining that the context comprises the at least one of the first metric and the first attribute value based on at least one of a job title of a user, a department of the user, and an industry associated with the user.
5. The one or more media of claim 1, wherein determining the context comprises: receiving a user selection of information representing the at least one of the first metric and the first attribute value, wherein the information was presented on the user interface as part of presentation of another insight; determining that the context comprises the at least one of the first metric and the first attribute value based on the user selection.
6. The one or more media of claim 1, wherein determining the plurality of insights further comprises: identifying a third subset of the set of entries that are associated with the first attribute value of the plurality of attribute values; applying a third insight algorithm to the third subset of entries, with respect to a third metric of the plurality of metrics, in order to determine a third insight of the plurality of insights; wherein the context comprises the first metric and the first attribute value; wherein the relevant insights include the first sight and do not include the third insight.
7. The one or more media of claim 1, further storing instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause: determining a second context for determining another insight to be presented on a second user interface, wherein the second context comprises at least one of the second metric and the second attribute value, and does not comprise the first metric or the first attribute value; identifying a second set of relevant insights, from the plurality of insights, that are associated with the second context, wherein the second set of relevant insights include the second insight and do not include the first insight; presenting, on the second user interface, at least one of the second set of relevant insights that are associated with the second context.
8. The one or more media of claim 1, wherein the first insight algorithm comprises at least one of: an aggregation algorithm; an outlier algorithm.
9. The one or more media of claim 1, wherein the first insight algorithm analyzes a change or trend in the first metric, associated with the first subset of the set of entries, over a particular time period.
10. The one or more media of claim 1, further storing instructions which cause: determining a ranking of the relevant insights; selecting the at least one of the relevant insights for presenting on the user interface based on the ranking of the relevant insights.
11. The one or more media of claim 1, wherein: a first subset of the set of tables includes the first metric as a field; the first subset of the set of entries are within the first subset of the set of tables.
12. One or more non-transitory machine-readable media storing instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause: identifying a set of entries, in a set of one or more tables, associated with a plurality of metrics and a plurality of attributes, wherein each of the plurality of attributes is associated with a respective set of attribute values; determining a plurality of insights based on the set of entries, wherein determining the plurality of insights comprises: identifying a first subset of the set of entries that are associated with a first attribute value for a first attribute of the plurality of attributes; applying a first insight algorithm to the first subset of entries, with respect to a first metric of the plurality of metrics, in order to determine a first insight of the plurality of insights; identifying a second subset of the set of entries that are associated with a second attribute value for a second attribute of the plurality of attributes, wherein the second subset of the set of entries are not associated with any attribute value for the first attribute; applying a second insight algorithm to the second subset of entries, with respect to a second metric of the plurality of metrics, in order to determine a second insight of the plurality of insights; determining a context for determining a particular insight to be presented on a user interface, wherein the context comprises the first attribute and does not comprise the second attribute; identifying relevant insights, from the plurality of insights, that are associated with the context, wherein the relevant insights include the first insight and do not include the second insight; presenting, on the user interface, at least one of the relevant insights that are associated with the context, without presenting any insight not within the relevant insights.
13. The one or more media of claim 12, wherein determining the plurality of insights further comprises: identifying a third subset of the set of entries that are associated with a third attribute value for the first attribute; applying a third insight algorithm to the third subset of entries, with respect to a third metric of the plurality of metrics, in order to determine a third insight of the plurality of insights; determining that the third insight is associated with the context comprising the first attribute; wherein the relevant insights further include the third insight.
14. The one or more media of claim 12, wherein determining the context comprises: determining historical user interactions with insights associated with the first attribute; determining that the context comprises the first attribute based on the historical user interactions.
15. The one or more media of claim 12, wherein determining the context comprises: determining a user preference for viewing insights associated with the first attribute; determining that the context comprises the first attribute based on the user preference.
16. The one or more media of claim 12, wherein determining the context comprises: determining that the context comprises the first attribute based on at least one of a job title of a user, a department of the user, and an industry associated with the user.
17. The one or more media of claim 12, wherein determining the context comprises: receiving a user selection of information representing the first attribute, wherein the information was presented on the user interface as part of presentation of another insight; determining that the context comprises the first attribute based on the user selection.
18. The one or more media of claim 12, wherein the first insight algorithm comprises at least one of: an aggregation algorithm; an outlier algorithm; an algorithm configured to analyze a change or trend in the first metric, associated with the first subset of the set of entries, over a particular time period.
19. The one or more media of claim 12, wherein: a first subset of the set of tables includes the first metric as a first field; a second subset of the set of tables includes the first attribute as a second field; the first subset of the set of entries are: (a) within the first subset of the set of tables; and (b) index into a second subset of the set of entries, within the second subset of the set of tables, that are associated with the first attribute value for the first attribute.
20. A method, comprising: identifying a set of entries, in a set of one or more tables, associated with a plurality of metrics and a plurality of attribute values; determining a plurality of insights based on the set of entries, wherein determining the plurality of insights comprises: identifying a first subset of the set of entries that are associated with a first attribute value of the plurality of attribute values; applying a first insight algorithm to the first subset of entries, with respect to a first metric of the plurality of metrics, in order to determine a first insight of the plurality of insights; identifying a second subset of the set of entries that are associated with a second attribute value of the plurality of attribute values; applying a second insight algorithm to the second subset of entries, with respect to a second metric of the plurality of metrics, in order to determine a second insight of the plurality of insights; determining a context for determining a particular insight to be presented on a user interface, wherein the context comprises at least one of the first metric and the first attribute value, and does not comprise the second metric or the second attribute value; identifying relevant insights, from the plurality of insights, that are associated with the context, wherein the relevant insights include the first insight and do not include the second insight; presenting, on the user interface, at least one of the relevant insights that are associated with the context, without presenting any insight not within the relevant insights; wherein the method is performed by one or more devices, each including one or more hardware processors.
</claims>
</document>
