<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-08-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHL US
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALEXANDER, AMAN CHERIAN
AMINZADEH, ARYA RYAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54066212
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CUSTOMIZABLE MACHINE LEARNING MODELS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for customizable machine learning models. In some implementations, data is received, including (i) example data sets and (ii) data specifying one or more criteria to be assessed. A set of multiple models is trained, where each model in the set of models is trained using a training data set comprising a different subset of the example data sets. Output of the models is obtained for various example data sets, and a combination of n-grams is selected based on the outputs. The example data sets are used to train a classifier to evaluate input data with respect to the specified one or more criteria based on whether the input data includes the n-grams in the selected combination of n-grams.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A method comprising: accessing, by a computing system comprising one or more computers, (i) example data sets that each include information about a different individual and (ii) data specifying one or more criteria to be assessed; for each of multiple features identified the example data sets, determining, by the computing system, one or more measures of association between the feature and the one or more criteria being assessed; selecting, by the computing system, a first set of features based on the measures of association; evaluating, by the computing system, a plurality of different models that are each trained to generate a prediction based on a subset of features from among the first set of features, wherein at least some of the plurality of different models are trained to generate predictions based on different subsets of the first features; obtaining, by the computing system, data indicating a second set of features selected based on the evaluating the plurality of different models; and providing, by the computing system, a model that is configured to generate a prediction with respect to the one or more criteria based on data for the second set of features selected based on the evaluating the plurality of different models.
22. The method of claim 21, comprising using the provided model to generate a classification result with respect to the one or more criteria based on whether input data include features in the second set of features.
23. The method of claim 21, comprising using, by the computing system, the example data sets to train a classifier to evaluate input data with respect to the one or more criteria based on whether the input data includes the features in the second set of features.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein the first set of features includes one or more features representing the occurrence of different n-grams in text and one or more features that do not represent the occurrence of n-grams in text.
25. The method of claim 21, comprising generating, as the plurality of different models, multiple models for each of multiple different combinations of the first features.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein the selecting the second set of features is performed based on (i) efficacy measures indicating predictive ability of the plurality of different models and (ii) consistency measures indicating variability of the predictive ability of the plurality of different models when applied to different data sets.
27. The method of claim 21, wherein data for at least some of the example data sets comprise at least one of resume data, curriculum vitae data, job application data, job performance data, education data, or work history data.
28. The method of claim 21, further comprising: for each of the first features, determining, by the computing system, a correlation measure indicative of a frequency that the first feature occurs in example data sets determined to satisfy the specified one or more criteria; and selecting, by the computing system, a group of the first features based on the correlation measures, wherein the different subsets of the first features that occur in the example data sets are different combinations of first features from the group of the first features selected based on the correlation measures.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein selecting the group of the first features based on the correlation measures comprises: generating a rank ordered list of the first features according to associated correlation measures; and selecting a number of the top-ranked first features as the group of the first features.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the rank ordered list of first features is generated using a binary logistic regression.
31. The method of claim 28, wherein the models in each set of multiple models are configured to classify input data by: obtaining, with a machine learning model, weights associated with each first feature in the combination of first features using a training data set.
32. The method of claim 28, comprising determining, based on the data specifying one or more criteria to be assessed, a cost function that is used to define a top performance tier; wherein the plurality of different models comprise a set of multiple models for each of multiple different combinations of the first features; wherein evaluating the plurality of different models comprises determining, for each model in each of the sets of models corresponding to different combinations of the first features, an efficacy for each model based on (i) a performance metric of example data sets ranked within the top performance tier by the model and (ii) an average performance metric of the example data sets within a test data set; and wherein the method comprises selecting, as the second features, the features in one of the combinations of first features based on the efficacy determined for the model that corresponds to the one of the combinations of first features.
33. The method of claim 32, wherein the performance metric of example data sets ranked within the top performance tier by the model is an average of performance metrics of example data sets ranked within the top performance tier by the model.
34. A system comprising: one or more computers; and one or more computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: accessing, by the one or more computers, (i) example data sets that each include information about a different individual and (ii) data specifying one or more criteria to be assessed; for each of multiple features identified the example data sets, determining, by the computing system, one or more measures of association between the feature and the one or more criteria being assessed; selecting, by the one or more computers, a first set of features based on the measures of association; evaluating, by the one or more computers, a plurality of different models that are each trained to generate a prediction based on a subset of features from among the first set of features, wherein at least some of the plurality of different models are trained to generate predictions based on different subsets of the first features; obtaining, by the one or more computers, data indicating a second set of features selected based on the evaluating the plurality of different models; and providing, by the one or more computers, a model that is configured to generate a prediction with respect to the one or more criteria based on data for the second set of features selected based on the evaluating the plurality of different models.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein the operations comprise using the provided model to generate a classification result with respect to the one or more criteria based on whether input data include features in the second set of features.
36. The system of claim 34, wherein the operations comprise using, by the computing system, the example data sets to train a classifier to evaluate input data with respect to the one or more criteria based on whether the input data includes the features in the second set of features.
37. The system of claim 34, wherein the first set of features includes one or more features representing the occurrence of different n-grams in text and one or more features that do not represent the occurrence of n-grams in text.
38. The system of claim 34, wherein the operations comprise generating, as the plurality of different models, multiple models for each of multiple different combinations of the first features.
39. The system of claim 34, wherein the selecting the second set of features is performed based on (i) efficacy measures indicating predictive ability of the plurality of different models and (ii) consistency measures indicating variability of the predictive ability of the plurality of different models when applied to different example data sets.
40. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: accessing, by the one or more computers, (i) example data sets that each include information about a different individual and (ii) data specifying one or more criteria to be assessed; for each of multiple features identified the example data sets, determining, by the computing system, one or more measures of association between the feature and the one or more criteria being assessed; selecting, by the one or more computers, a first set of features based on the measures of association; evaluating, by the one or more computers, a plurality of different models that are each trained to generate a prediction based on a subset of features from among the first set of features, wherein at least some of the plurality of different models are trained to generate predictions based on different subsets of the first features; obtaining, by the one or more computers, data indicating a second set of features selected based on the evaluating the plurality of different models; and providing, by the one or more computers, a model that is configured to generate a prediction with respect to the one or more criteria based on data for the second set of features selected based on the evaluating the plurality of different models.
</claims>
</document>
