<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H20/00,G16H70/00,G16H80/00,H04L12/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDICAL PHARMA SERVICES, S.R.O.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Denisova, Natalia
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66999546
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VIRTUAL ADVISORY BOARD
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for providing a virtual advisory board includes receiving data related to the virtual advisory board, inviting potential participants, confirming actual participants, and tracking usage data for the actual participants. In further embodiments, the system and method may include setting a compensation amount for the actual participants. Related systems and methods for generating a report of a virtual advisory board are also included.
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. A method of providing a virtual advisory board, the method comprising: receiving, by a processor of a computing system, data related to the virtual advisory board, wherein the data includes at least one of an agenda, an objective, and medical literature; inviting, by the processor, a plurality of potential participants to join the virtual advisory board; confirming, by the processor, attendance of actual participants who have joined the virtual advisory board; presenting, by the processor, at least one vote or survey to the actual participants, and recording, by the processor, responses from the actual participants; tracking, by the processor, usage data for the actual participants, wherein the usage data includes at least one of login times, login durations, cookies, and interactions with the data; setting, by the processor, a compensation amount for each actual participant of the actual participants, wherein the compensation amount is based at least in part on the tracked usage data for the respective actual participant.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the data further includes information regarding at least one of a pharmaceutical product, a medical device, a medical condition, a medical procedure, a treatment method, and a diagnostic method.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising, determining, by the processor, participant information for each actual participant, wherein the participant information includes at least one of a name, position, title, location, educational credential, work experience, type of practice, prior medical advisory board participation, and salary.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the compensation amount is also based at least in part on the participant information.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: preparing, by the processor, an advisory board resolution, where in the advisory board resolution includes at least the recorded responses to the at least one vote or survey.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the actual participants are able to comment on the data.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the comments are included in the usage data.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing, by the processor, an editable document, configured to track changes by the actual participants.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein changes are included in the usage data.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: preparing, by the processor, a final report including at least the data, the responses, and the usage data.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the processor, additional data from the actual participants, wherein the further data includes at least one of further medical literature, a document, and research data.
12. A computing system, comprising: a processor; a memory device coupled to the processor; and a computer readable storage device coupled to the processor, wherein the storage device contains program code executable by the processor via the memory device to implement a method for providing a virtual advisory board, the method comprising: storing, by a processor of a computing system, data related to the virtual advisory board, wherein the data includes at least one of an agenda, an objective, and medical literature; inviting, by the processor, a plurality of potential participants to join the virtual advisory board; confirming, by the processor, attendance of actual participants who have joined the virtual advisory board; presenting, by the processor, at least one vote or survey to the actual participants, and recording, by the processor, responses from the actual participants; tracking, by the processor, usage data for the actual participants, wherein the usage data includes at least one of login times, login durations, cookies, and interactions with the data; setting, by the processor, a compensation amount for each actual participant of the actual participants, wherein the compensation amount is based at least in part on the tracked usage data for the respective actual participant.
13. The computing system of claim 12, wherein the method further comprises: determining, by the processor, participant information for each actual participant, wherein the participant information includes at least one of a name, position, title, location, educational credential, work experience, type of practice, prior medical advisory board participation, and salary.
14. The computing system of claim 12, wherein the method further comprises: preparing, by the processor, an advisory board resolution, where in the advisory board resolution includes at least the recorded responses to the at least one vote or survey.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising, providing, by the processor, an editable document, configured to track changes by the actual participants.
16. The computing system of claim 12, wherein the method further comprises: preparing a final report including at least the data, the responses, and the usage data.
17. The computing system of claim 12, wherein the method further comprises: receiving, by the processor, additional data from the actual participants, wherein the further data includes at least one of further medical literature, a document, and research data.
18. A method of generating a report for a virtual advisory board, comprising: receiving, by a processor of a computing system, data, wherein the data includes at least one of an agenda, an objective, and medical literature; inviting, by the processor, a plurality of potential participants to join the virtual advisory board; confirming, by the processor, attendance of actual participants who have joined the virtual advisory board; providing, by the processor, actual participants with access to the data such that the actual participants are permitted to interact with the data, wherein interaction with the data includes at least one of commenting on, adding to, or editing the data; tracking, by the processor, usage data for the actual participants, wherein the usage data includes at least one of login times, login durations, cookies, and interaction with the data; presenting, by the processor, at least one vote or survey related to the data to the actual participants, and recording, by the processor, responses from the actual participants; and generating, by the processor, the final report for the virtual advisory board, wherein the final report includes at least the data, a list of the actual participants, the usage data, and the recorded responses.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: setting, by the processor, a compensation amount for each actual participant of the actual participants, wherein the compensation amount is based at least in part on the tracked usage data for the respective actual participant.
</claims>
</document>
