<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/284,G06F40/30,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FOUND INTELLIGENCE TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LONG, ZHIXIONG
PENG, QIANPING
DAI, XIAOSHENG
XU, LIANG
ZHAO, YIWEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64660054
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CONDUCTING MULTI-TASK ORIENTED DIALOGUES
</title>

<abstract>
A mufti-task oriented dialogue system may include a storage device storing a set of instructions and a processor in communication with the storage device. When the processor executes the set of instructions, the processor may be configured to cause the system to obtain input information from a user and determine a dialogue state based on the input information. The processor may also be configured to cause the system to obtain a dialogue model for generating one or more actions. The processor may further be configured to cause the system to generate one or more actions based on the dialogue state and the obtained dialogue model. The processor may also be configured to cause the system to execute the generated one or more actions and transmit output information to the user based on an execution result of the one or more actions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A multi-task oriented dialogue system, the system comprising: at least one storage device storing a set of instructions; and at least one processor in communication with the at least one storage device, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the at least one processor is configured to cause the system to: obtain input information from a user; determine a dialogue state based on the input information; obtain a dialogue model for generating one or more actions; generate one or more actions based on the dialogue state and the obtained dialogue model; execute the generated one or more actions, wherein the one or more actions include a sentence-generating action or an API-calling action; and transmit output information to the user based on an execution result of the one or more actions.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein to determine the state of the input information, the at least one processor is configured to cause the system to: segment the input information into a plurality of tokens; and determine the dialogue state based on the plurality of tokens.
3. (canceled)
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more actions each includes a name.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the one or more actions each further includes at least one slot-pair.
6. (canceled)
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the dialogue model for generating one or more actions is generated by a process of training a model, the process comprising: obtaining a preliminary model; obtaining training data from a dialogue corpus; generating actions based on the training data; generating a dialogue model by training the preliminary model based on the actions; generating simulated dialogues based on the dialogue model; valuating the generated simulated dialogues; and updating the dialogue model based on a result of the valuation.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to cause the system to update the dialogue model after a dialogue between the multi-task oriented dialogue system and the user is finished.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein to update the dialogue model after the dialogue between the multi-task oriented dialogue system and the user is finished, the at least one processor is further configured to cause the system to: obtain the finished dialogue between the multi-task oriented dialogue system and the user; perform a first valuation on completeness of one or more tasks in the finished dialogue; perform a second valuation on performance of the one or more tasks in the finished dialogue; perform a third valuation on a probability of the finished dialogue being a human dialogue; determine a valuation result based on the first valuation, the second valuation, and the third valuation; and update the dialogue model based on the valuation result.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein to execute the generated one or more actions, the at least one processor is configured to cause the system to: execute the generated one or more actions in a sequence, the one or more actions including a first action and a second action, wherein: the first action is executed before the second action, and the second action is executed based on an execution result of the first action.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the output information includes a request for obtaining new input information in a new turn.
12. A method performed by a multi-task oriented dialogue system for conducting a multi-task oriented dialogue, the method comprising: obtaining input information from a user; determining a dialogue state based on the input information; obtaining a dialogue model for generating one or more actions; generating one or more actions based on the dialogue state and the obtained dialogue model; executing the generated one or more actions, wherein the one or more actions include a sentence-generating action or an API-calling action; and transmitting output information to the user based on an execution result of the one or more actions.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the determining the state of the input information comprises: segmenting the input information into a plurality of tokens; and determining the dialogue state based on the plurality of tokens.
14. 14-17. (canceled)
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the dialogue model for generating one or more actions is generated by a process of training a model, the process comprising: obtaining a preliminary model; obtaining training data from a dialogue corpus; generating actions based on the training data; generating a dialogue model by training the preliminary model based on the actions; generating simulated dialogues based on the dialogue model; valuating the generated simulated dialogues; and updating the dialogue model based on a result of the valuation.
19. The method of claim 12, further comprising updating the dialogue model after a dialogue between the multi-task oriented dialogue system and the user is finished.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the updating the dialogue model after the dialogue between the multi-task oriented dialogue system and the user is finished comprises: obtaining the finished dialogue between the multi-task oriented dialogue system and the user; performing a first valuation on completeness of one or more tasks in the finished dialogue; performing a second valuation on performance of the one or more tasks in the finished dialogue; performing a third valuation on a probability of the finished dialogue being a human dialogue; determining a valuation result based on the first valuation, the second valuation, and the third valuation; and updating the dialogue model based on the valuation result.
21. The method of claim 12, wherein the executing the generated one or more actions comprises: executing the generated one or more actions in a sequence, the one or more actions including a first action and a second action, wherein: the first action is executed before the second action, and the second action is executed based on an execution result of the first action.
22. (canceled)
23. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising executable instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to effectuate a method, the method comprising: obtaining input information from a user; determining a dialogue state based on the input information; obtaining a dialogue model for generating one or more actions; generating one or more actions based on the dialogue state and the obtained dialogue model; executing the generated one or more actions, wherein the one or more actions include a sentence-generating action or an API-calling action; and transmitting output information to the user based on an execution result of the one or more actions.
24. The system of claim 7, wherein the generating the simulated dialogues based on the dialogue model comprises: obtaining a human dialogue; deleting part of the human dialogue; and complete the human dialogue based on the dialogue model to generate the simulated dialogue.
25. The system of claim 7, wherein the valuation of the generated simulated dialogue is implemented by a value model, wherein the dialogue model and the value model are combined into a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) model.
26. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to cause the system to: determine whether two successive release turn actions are generated in a turn of a dialogue between the multi-task oriented dialogue system and the user; and in response to a determination that two successive release turn actions are generated in a turn of a dialogue between the multi-task oriented dialogue system and the user, determine that the dialogue ends, and terminate the dialogue.
27. The system of claim 1, wherein the dialogue state relates to an intention or an emotion of the user.
</claims>
</document>
