<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/863,H04L12/867,H04L12/869,H04L12/875
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COX COMMUNICATIONS
FINKELSTEIN, JEFFREY
</assignee>

<inventors>
FINKELSTEIN, JEFFREY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70459184
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR NETWORK SCHEDULING AND RE-TRANSMISSION BUFFERING
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein include systems, methods, and apparatuses for the scheduling of data over a network (e.g., a wired or wireless network). A scheduler may be configured to receive a portion of packets at a receiving buffer and classify the packets into real time packets or non-real time packets using associated first and second queues. Further, a first re-transmission component may receive the real time packets from the first queue, and a second re-transmission component may receive the non-real time packets from the second queue. The real time packets may be received, by a transmission component, from the first re-transmission component; the transmission component may also receive non-real time packets from the second re-transmission component. The scheduler may then transmit at least one real time packet or non-real time packet to another device over a network using any suitable scheduling algorithm.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device including a scheduler component, the scheduler component including computer-executable instructions that can be executed by a processor operably coupled to memory, the scheduler comprising: a first queue configured to receive real-time packets and a second queue configured to receive non real-time packets; a first re-transmission queue that receives the real time packets from the first queue and a second re-transmission queue that receives the non real-time packets from the second queue; and a transmission component that receives the real time packets from the first re-transmission queue and the non real-time packets from the second re-transmission queue, and transmits at least one real time packet or non-real time packet.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the first re-transmission queue receives the real time packets from the first queue and the second re-transmission queue receives the non-real time packets from the second queue based on a first priority and a second priority associated with the real time packets and the non-real time packets, respectively.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein a combining component interleaves at least one non-real time packet from the second re-transmission queue with one or more real-time packets from the first re-transmission queue based on a rule.
4. The device of claim 3, wherein the rule indicates a ratio of non-real time packets to real-time packets to be transmitted per cycle.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein a receiving buffer transmits packets to the first queue and second queue using a first-in first-out process.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the transmission component transmits the at least one real time packet or non-real time packet using a round-robin protocol.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the scheduler component is configured to operate on one or more intermediate devices between a source transmitting node and a destination node.
8. The device of claim 7, wherein the source transmitting node includes a cable modem termination system and the destination node includes a user device.
9. A computer-implemented method, comprising: separating, by a processor, at least a portion of packets received at a receiving buffer into real time packets or non-real time packets, and transmitting the real time packets into a first queue and the non-real time packets into a second queue; receiving, by a first re-transmission queue, the real time packets from the first queue, and receiving, by a second re-transmission queue, the non-real time packets from the second queue; receiving, by a transmission component, the real time packets from the first re-transmission queue and the non-real time packets from the second re-transmission queue; and causing to transmit at least one real time packet or non-real time packet.
10. The computer implemented method of claim 9, wherein the first re-transmission queue receives the real time packets from the first queue and the second re-transmission queue receives the non-real time packets from the second queue based on a first priority and a second priority associated with real time packets and the non-real time packets, respectively.
11. The computer implemented method of claim 9, wherein a combining component interleaves at least one non-real time packet from the second re-transmission queue with one or more real-time packets from the first re-transmission queue based on a rule.
12. The computer implemented method of claim 11, wherein the rule indicates a ratio of non-real time packets to real-time packets to be transmitted per cycle.
13. The computer implemented method of claim 9, wherein the receiving buffer transmits packets to the first queue and second queue using a first-in first-out process.
14. The computer implemented method of claim 9, wherein the transmission component transmits the at least one real time packet or non-real time packet using a round-robin protocol.
15. A computer-readable non-transitory storage medium for scheduling packets in a network, the computer-readable non-transitory storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to: separate at least a portion of packets received at a receiving buffer into real time packets or non-real time packets, and transmitting the real time packets into a first queue and the non-real time packets into a second queue; receive at a first re-transmission queue, the real time packets from the first queue, and receive by a second re-transmission queue, the non-real time packets from the second queue; receive at a transmission component, the real time packets from the first re-transmission queue and the non-real time packets from the second re-transmission queue; and cause to transmit at least one real time packet or non-real time packet.
16. The computer-readable non-transitory storage medium of claim 15, the program instructions executable by a processor to further cause the processor to determine, by the first re-transmission queue, real time packets received from the first queue and determine, by the second re-transmission queue, the non-real time packets received from the second queue based on a first priority and a second priority associated with real time packets and the non-real time packets, respectively.
17. The computer-readable non-transitory storage medium of claim 15, the program instructions executable by a processor to further cause the processor to interleave, by the combining component, at least one non-real time packet from the second re-transmission queue with one or more real-time packets from the first re-transmission queue based on a rule.
18. The computer-readable non-transitory storage medium of claim 17, wherein the rule indicates a ratio of non-real time packets to real-time packets to be transmitted per cycle.
19. The computer-readable non-transitory storage medium of claim 15, the program instructions executable by a processor to further cause the processor to transmits packets to the first queue and second queue using a first-in first-out process.
20. The computer-readable non-transitory storage medium of claim 15, the program instructions executable by a processor to further cause the processor to cause to transmit, by the transmission component, the at least one real time packet or non-real time packet using a round-robin protocol.
</claims>
</document>
