<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-08-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F1/18,A63F3/00,G06Q50/34,G07F17/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ANGEL PLAYING CARDS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHIGETA, YASUSHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57943118
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GAME MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A game management system manages a casino game performed in a plurality of tables in casino facilities. The game management system includes: a camera obtaining an image by capturing bet gaming tokens; a control device specifying a betting amount on the basis of the type and the number of gaming tokens in the image by specifying a betting target on the basis of a position of the gaming token in the image; a card distribution device determining a game result of the casino game; an arithmetic device calculating a profit of a casino manager for each table and each game of the plurality of tables, on the basis of the betting target, the betting amount, and the game result; and a recording apparatus recording the profit.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-22. (canceled)
23. A game management system comprising at least one processor, wherein the at least one processor is configured to: determine betting contents including a betting target and a betting amount of a casino game played in a casino; determine a game result of the casino game; and calculate a profit of a casino manager with respect to a plurality of tables in the casino based on the determined betting contents and game result; and the game management system further comprises: a camera configured to capture the casino game to obtain an image, the at least one processor being configured to determine the betting contents based on the image; or a sensor, the at least one processor being configured to determine the betting contents based on a reading, by the sensor, of IDs embedded in chips.
24. The game management system according to claim 23, wherein the at least one processor is configured to calculate a total bet amount in addition to the profit based on the betting content and the game result.
25. The game management system according to claim 23, wherein the at least one processor is configured to calculate the profit for each position of a player at the plurality of tables.
26. The game management system according to claim 23, wherein the at least one processor is configured to identify, with an identity number, a player at a player position of the plurality of tables.
27. The game management system according to claim 26, wherein the at least one processor is configured to calculate for each of a plurality of players, a respective total bet amount and a respective profit obtained from the respective player.
28. The game management system according to claim 26, wherein the at least one processor is configured to identify when the identified player leaves one of the plurality of tables and arrives at another of the plurality of tables.
29. The game management system according to claim 23, wherein the at least one processor is configured to compare respective profits calculated by the at least one processor for respective ones of the plurality of tables.
30. The game management system according to claim 23, wherein the at least one processor is configured to extract a strange situation by comparing the profit with statistical data.
31. The game management system according to claim 23, wherein the at least one processor is configured to calculate the profit by adding-up profits for each set of a predetermined number of instances of the game or over a predetermined amount of time.
32. The game management system according to claim 23, wherein the at least one processor is configured to calculate a relationship between the profit and time.
33. The game management system according to claim 23, wherein the at least one processor is configured to calculate the profit respectively for each of a plurality of pits of the casino, each pit including a respective subset of the plurality of tables.
34. The game management system according to claim 23, wherein the at least one processor is configured to detect a total amount of chips of a dealer, and calculate the profit further based on the detected total amount.
35. The game management system according to claim 34, wherein the at least one processor is configured to, for each of the plurality of tables, output a total amount of substitute currency for gaming of a dealer of the respective table.
36. The game management system according to claim 34, wherein the system includes the sensor, the sensor being an RF reader configured to read out from an RF tag information specifying a chip value.
37. The game management system according to claim 23, wherein the at least one processor is configured to detect the betting contents and the game result respectively for each of a plurality of instances of the casino game, and is configured to calculate the profit respectively for each of the instances of the game based on the respective betting contents and respective game result of the respective instance of the game.
38. The game management system according to claim 37, wherein the at least one processor is configured to create a table indicating the respective profit for each of the instances of the game respectively.
39. The game management system according to claim 23, wherein: the at least one processor includes: respective processors respective ones of the plurality of tables, each of the processor being configured to determine the betting contents and game result respectively for the respective one of the plurality of tables for which the respective processor is provided; and the at least one processor is configured to calculate the profit respectively for each of the plurality of tables based on the betting contents and game result determined for the respective one of the plurality of tables.
40. The game management system according to claim 39, wherein the at least one processor is configured to create a table indicating the profit respectively for each of the plurality of tables.
41. The game management system according to claim 23, wherein the at least one processor is configured to: calculate a total bet amount in addition to the profit based on the betting content and the game result; and calculate a profit rate based on the profit and the total bet amount.
42. The game management system according to claim 41, further comprising an alarm, wherein the alarm is configured to output an alarm signal in response to the calculated profit being less than a predetermined threshold value or is configured to output the alarm signal in response to the calculated profit no greater than the predetermined threshold value.
43. The game management system according to claim 41, further comprising an alarm, wherein the alarm is configured to output an alarm signal in response to the calculated profit being greater than a predetermined threshold value or is configured to output the alarm signal in response to the calculated profit being at least equal to the predetermined threshold value.
44. The game management system according to claim 23, wherein the at least one processor includes a processor of an electronic shoe that is part of the game management system, the electronic shoe including: a container configured to contain playing cards used for playing the casino game and from which the playing cards are extractable one at a time via an opening of the container; and a sensor configured to detect contents of the playing cards extracted via the opening, wherein the processor of the electronic shoe is configured to determine the game result of the casino game according to at least one rule of the casino game and based on the contents of the playing cards detected by the sensor of the electronic shoe.
</claims>
</document>
