<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06Q10/06,G06Q30/00,G10L15/16,G10L15/22,H04M3/523
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHOU XIN
CHEN HAO
MA, JIE
KNOERTZER, MANON
GUAN, RAN
DAVIS, CHRISTOPHER J.
MOHAMMED, RACHEL
KANCHARLA, SHARATH
SHU, ZHONGZHENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69883767
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LIVE AGENT RECOMMENDATION FOR A HUMAN-ROBOT SYMBIOSIS CONVERSATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method is presented for selecting a preferred live agent from a plurality of live agents. The method includes constructing, via the processor, a human expertise matrix pertaining to each of the plurality of live agents by determining an average net promoter score (NPS) for each of the plurality of live agents for each category of a plurality of categories, and in response to a voice call by a user, determining, via the processor, a predicted human expertise on average by collectively assessing the human expertise matrix, a predicted NPS derived from a first deep neural network, and a predicted category derived from a second deep neural network. The method further includes, based on the predicted human expertise on average determined, triggering communication via the live agent communication network between the user and the preferred live agent to initiate a conversation between the user and the preferred live agent.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method executed on a processor for selecting a preferred live agent from a plurality of live agents linked within a live agent communication network, the computer-implemented method comprising: constructing, via the processor, a human expertise matrix pertaining to each of the plurality of live agents by determining an average net promoter score (NPS) for each of the plurality of live agents for each category of a plurality of categories; in response to a voice call by a user, determining, via the processor, a predicted human expertise on average by collectively assessing the human expertise matrix, a predicted NPS derived from a first deep neural network, and a predicted category derived from a second deep neural network; and based on the predicted human expertise on average determined, triggering communication via the live agent communication network between the user and the preferred live agent to initiate a conversation between the user and the preferred live agent.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising inputting a current user query and current conversations before the current user query to the first and second deep neural networks.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first deep neural network is employed to compute the NPS and the second deep neural network is employed to compute the category.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising computing a loss function for each of the first and second deep neural networks.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising updating a neuron weight of each of the first and second deep neural networks.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second deep neural networks are employed to create a conversation categorization model.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein a stochastic prediction of each category for each of the plurality of agents is determined based on the conversation categorization model.
8. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising a computer-readable program executed on a processor in a data processing system for selecting a preferred live agent from a plurality of live agents, wherein the computer-readable program when executed on the processor causes a computer to perform the steps of: constructing, via the processor, a human expertise matrix pertaining to each of the plurality of live agents by determining an average net promoter score (NPS) for each of the plurality of live agents for each category of a plurality of categories; in response to a voice call by a user, determining, via the processor, a predicted human expertise on average by collectively assessing the human expertise matrix, a predicted NPS derived from a first deep neural network, and a predicted category derived from a second deep neural network; and based on the predicted human expertise on average determined, triggering communication via the live agent communication network between the user and the preferred live agent to initiate a conversation between the user and the preferred live agent.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein a current user query and current conversations before the current user query are inputted into the first and second deep neural networks.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the first deep neural network is employed to compute the NPS and the second deep neural network is employed to compute the category.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein a loss function is computed for each of the first and second deep neural networks.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein a neuron weight is updated for each of the first and second deep neural networks.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the first and second deep neural networks are employed to create a conversation categorization model.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein a stochastic prediction of each category for each of the plurality of agents is determined based on the conversation categorization model.
15. A system for selecting a preferred live agent from a plurality of live agents, the system comprising: a memory; and one or more processors in communication with the memory configured to: construct, via the processor, a human expertise matrix pertaining to each of the plurality of live agents by determining an average net promoter score (NPS) for each of the plurality of live agents for each category of a plurality of categories; in response to a voice call by a user, determine, via the processor, a predicted human expertise on average by collectively assessing the human expertise matrix, a predicted NPS derived from a first deep neural network, and a predicted category derived from a second deep neural network; and based on the predicted human expertise on average determined, trigger communication via the live agent communication network between the user and the preferred live agent to initiate a conversation between the user and the preferred live agent.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein a current user query and current conversations before the current user query are inputted into the first and second deep neural networks.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the first deep neural network is employed to compute the NPS and the second deep neural network is employed to compute the category.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein a loss function is computed for each of the first and second deep neural networks.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein a neuron weight is updated for each of the first and second deep neural networks.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the first and second deep neural networks are employed to create a conversation categorization model.
</claims>
</document>
