<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/04,A61B5/048,A61B5/0482,A61B5/0484,A61B5/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
X DEVELOPMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEVINE, GABRIELLA
LASZLO, SARAH ANN
EVANGELOPOULOS, GEORGIOS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123734
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ASSESSMENT OF RISK FOR MAJOR DEPRESSIVE DISORDER FROM HUMAN ELECTROENCEPHALOGRAPHY USING MACHINE LEARNED MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for presenting a human participant with information known to stimulate a person's neural reward system. Receiving an EEG signal from a sensor coupled to the human participant in response to presenting the participant with the information, the EEG signal being associated with the participant's neural reward system. Contemporaneously with receiving the EEG signal, receiving contextual information related to the information presented to the human participant. Processing the EEG signal and the contextual information in real time using a machine learning model trained to associate depression in the person with EEG signals associated with the person's neural reward system and the presented information. Diagnosing whether the participant is experiencing depression based on an output of the machine learning model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for analyzing electroencephalogram (EEG) signals, comprising: presenting a human participant with information known to stimulate a person's neural reward system; receiving an EEG signal from a sensor coupled to the human participant in response to presenting the participant with the information, the EEG signal being associated with the participant's neural reward system; contemporaneously with receiving the EEG signal, receiving contextual information related to the information presented to the human participant; processing the EEG signal and the contextual information in real time using a machine learning model trained to associate depression in the person with EEG signals associated with the person's neural reward system and the presented information; and diagnosing whether the participant is experiencing depression based on an output of the machine learning model.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the information known to stimulate the person's neural reward system is associated with a reward task.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the reward task comprises two outcomes, a first outcome that corresponds to a win for the participant and a second outcome that corresponds to a loss for the participant; and wherein the contextual information comprises information about the outcome of the reward task.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the information known to stimulate a person's neural reward system comprises presenting to the participant a graphical image of two objects, each object concealing an outcome that comprises either a winning outcome or a losing outcome.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: prompting the participant to select one of the two objects, wherein the contextual information comprises the outcome concealed by the selected one of the objects.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the EEG signals comprises extracting one or more parameters characteristic of the EEG signals for inputting into the machine learning model.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein prior to extracting the one or more parameters, processing the EEG signals comprises filtering the EEG signals.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein in order to determine a depression diagnosis, the machine learning model identifies a strong response in a loss theta region of the EEG signals associated with the person's neural reward system.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein generating an output associated with the determination comprises: providing, for display on a participant interface, a graphical representation that depicts the participant's EEG signals with that of a healthy individual and a depressed individual.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the participant interface includes at least one visualization of the participant's EEG signals.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the visualization can be a waveform of the signal, a heat map, or a time frequency representation.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the contextual information includes at least one of: the participant's location, a temperature of the participant's surroundings, an outcome that affects the participant's reward-related positivity, available computing devices, activities occurring on available computing devices, information from wearables, information from cameras, information from smart home devices, a current time, and current weather.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model comprises a neural network or other machine learning architecture.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model has a mapping function that maps a time series or frequency spectrum of values corresponding to EEG signals to a classification based on labeled training data and the contextual information.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model is trained using training data from healthy and depressed individuals and wherein the data is labeled for a depression diagnosis and associated with specific contextual information.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein prior to processing the EEG signals and the contextual information in real time using a machine learning model, pre-processing the EEG signals using bandpass filtering, linear de-trending, and/or another machine learning model.
17. The method of claim 1, further comprising: prior to displaying the output through a participant interface on a device for a medical professional, sending the generated output to the device medical professional using a cloud service.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the training data is labeled using depression diagnosis labels prior to training the model on the data.
19. A depression diagnosis system, comprising: one or more processors; one or more tangible, non-transitory media operably connectable to the one or more processors and storing instructions that, when executed, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: presenting a human participant with information known to stimulate a person's neural reward system; receiving an EEG signal from a sensor coupled to the human participant in response to presenting the participant with the information, the EEG signal being associated with the participant's neural reward system; contemporaneously with receiving the EEG signal, receiving contextual information related to the information presented to the human participant; processing the EEG signal and the contextual information in real time using a machine learning model trained to associate depression in the person with EEG signals associated with the person's neural reward system and the presented information; and diagnosing whether the participant is experiencing depression based on an output of the machine learning model.
20. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: presenting a human participant with information known to stimulate a person's neural reward system; receiving an EEG signal from a sensor coupled to the human participant in response to presenting the participant with the information, the EEG signal being associated with the participant's neural reward system; contemporaneously with receiving the EEG signal, receiving contextual information related to the information presented to the human participant; processing the EEG signal and the contextual information in real time using a machine learning model trained to associate depression in the person with EEG signals associated with the person's neural reward system and the presented information; and diagnosing whether the participant is experiencing depression based on an output of the machine learning model.
</claims>
</document>
