<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61J7/00,A61J7/04,G16H20/13
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DUKE UNIVERSITY
NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, YUAN-SHIN
TUPLER, LARRY A.
Cai, Yi
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58488739
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDICATION ADMINISTRATION AND ADHERENCE SYSTEMS AND RELATED METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
Medication administrations and adherence systems and related methods are disclosed. According to an aspect, a medicine administration system includes a case having a drawer that defines compartments for holding medication. The system also includes a mobile computing device. The mobile computing device includes a housing configured to attach to the case. Further, the mobile computing device includes a user interface. The mobile computing device includes one or more processors and memory configured to determine contents of each of the compartments. Further, the processor(s) and memory is configured to manage adherence to a prescription based on the contents The processor(s) and memory are also configured to control the user interface to present information to a user about adhering to the prescription and information about location of prescribed medication in the compartments.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-73. (canceled)
74. A medicine administration system comprising: a case having a drawer that defines a plurality of compartments for holding medication; and a mobile computing device comprising: a housing configured to attach to the case; a user interface; and at least one processor and memory configured to: determine contents of each of the compartments; manage adherence to a prescription based on the contents; and control the user interface to present information to a user about adhering to the prescription and information about location of prescribed medication in the compartments.
75. The medicine administration system of claim 74, wherein the mobile computing device is a smartphone.
76. The medicine administration system of claim 74, wherein the mobile computing device comprises a camera configured to capture images of the contents of the compartments, and wherein the at least one processor and memory are configured to determine the contents of the compartments based on the captured images.
77. The medicine administration system of claim 74, wherein the user interface comprises a display, and wherein the at least one processor and memory are configured to control the display to display indicators about the contents of the compartments.
78. The medicine administration system of claim 74, wherein the at least one processor and memory are configured to control the display to display information about adhering to the prescription for the medication held by the compartments.
79. The medicine administration system of claim 74, wherein the at least one processor and memory of the mobile computing device are configured to: receive physiological data of the user; integrate the physiological data with adherence data to enhance medical care; and control the user interface to present the information based on the physiological data and adherence data.
80. The medicine administration system of claim 79, wherein the at least one processor and memory of the mobile computing device are configured to receive the physiological data from a wearable device and integrate the physiological data with the adherence data to enhance medical care.
81. A medicine administration system comprising: a case having a drawer that defines a plurality of compartments for holding medication; a mobile computing device comprising: a housing configured to attach to the case; a user interface; and at least one processor and memory configured to: determine contents of each of the compartments; manage adherence to a prescription based on the contents; communicate, to another computing device, a notification that the medication in accordance with the prescription has been dispensed; verify the identify of the patient intended to receive the medication; and communicate, to the other computing device, a notification that an action has been taken by the verified patient.
82. The medicine administration system of claim 81, wherein the mobile computing device is a smartphone.
83. The medicine administration system of claim 81, wherein the mobile computing device comprises a camera configured to capture images of the contents of the compartments, and wherein the at least one processor and memory are configured to determine the contents of the compartments based on the captured images.
84. The medicine administration system of claim 81, wherein the user interface comprises a display, and wherein the at least one processor and memory are configured to control the display to display indicators about the contents of the compartments.
85. The medicine administration system of claim 81, wherein the at least one processor and memory are configured to control the display to display information about adhering to the prescription for the medication held by the compartments.
86. The medicine administration system of claim 81, wherein the drawer is configured to engage with a medication dispenser for receipt of medication within one or more of the compartments, and wherein the at least one processor and memory are configured to control the display to display information about the medication placed within the one or more of the compartments.
87. The medicine administration system of claim 86, wherein the at least one processor and memory are configured to receive user input indicating acknowledgement of view of the displayed information about the medication.
88. The medicine administration system of claim 86, wherein the at least one processor and memory are configured to control the display to identify a medication contained in one or more of the compartments.
89. The medicine administration system of claim 86, wherein the at least one processor and memory are configured to receive user input indicating adherence to a prescription for medication contained in one or more of the compartments.
90. The medicine administration system of claim 86, wherein the at least one processor and memory are configured to control the display to indicate one or more of the compartments to be filled with medication by the user.
91. The medicine administration system of claim 86, wherein the at least one processor and memory are configured to display prescription adherence information to a user based on a view of contents of the compartments acquired from an image capture device.
92. The medicine administration system of claim 86, wherein the prescription adherence information includes information about refilling one or more compartments.
93. A mobile computing device case comprising: a drawer that defines a plurality of compartments for holding medication; and a housing attached to the drawer and being configured to hold to a mobile computing device.
94. The mobile computing device case of claim 93, wherein the drawer is integrated with the housing and configured to be positioned in a first position or a second position with respect to the housing, wherein in the first position, interior spaces of the compartments are at least substantially closed such that medication located therein fall outside of their respective compartments, and wherein in the second position, interior spaces of the compartments are accessible from outside such that medication located therein are accessible.
95. The mobile computing device case of claim 93, further comprising at least one mirror positioned to reflect images of contents of the compartments towards a camera of a mobile computing device attached to the housing.
96. The mobile computing device case of claim 95, wherein the drawer has a transparent portion such that the contents of the compartments are within view of the camera.
97. The mobile computing device case of claim 93, wherein the drawer is configured to engage with a medication dispenser for receipt of medication within one or more of the compartments.
</claims>
</document>
