<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/09,B60W30/095,B60W50/029,G05D1/00,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAIDU USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU, Xiaodong
QU, Ning
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73746320
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD TO MONITOR CONTROL SYSTEM OF AUTONOMOUS DRIVING VEHICLE WITH MULTIPLE LEVELS OF WARNING AND FAIL OPERATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
According to one embodiment, a motion trajectory boundary is obtained based on a trajectory that has been planned to drive an ADV for a next time period. A safe driving area boundary is determined for the ADV based on perception data perceiving a driving environment surrounding the ADV. The motion trajectory boundary and the safe drivable area boundary are projected onto a map such as an HD map. A relative location of the ADV within the map relative to the motion trajectory and the safe drivable area boundary is determined. A fail-safe action or a fail operational action may be performed based on the relative location of the ADV in view of the motion trajectory boundary and the safe drivable area boundary.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for operating an autonomous driving vehicle, the method comprising: obtaining a motion trajectory boundary based on a trajectory that has been planned to drive an autonomous driving vehicle (ADV) for a next time period; determining a safe drivable area boundary for the ADV based on perception data perceiving a driving environment surrounding the ADV; projecting the motion trajectory boundary and the safe drivable area boundary onto a map; determining a relative location of the ADV within the map relative to the motion trajectory boundary and the safe drivable area boundary; and performing a fail-safe action or a fail operational action based on the relative location of the ADV in view of the motion trajectory boundary and the safe drivable area boundary.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the motion trajectory boundary defines an area within which the ADV is expected to be located for the next time period if the ADV was driven according to the trajectory.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the motion trajectory boundary is determined based on predicted movement of one or more obstacles within a predetermined proximity of the ADV in view of a current location and a current speed of the ADV according to a set of one or more driving rules.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the safe drivable area boundary is determined based on a distance between the ADV and each of one or more obstacles identified based on the perception data according to a set of one or more safety clearance rules.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the safe drivable area boundary is determined further based on a lane configuration of one or more lanes of a road in which the ADV is located, and wherein the lane configuration is obtained based on map data of the map.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining a relative location of the ADV within the map relative to the motion trajectory boundary and the safe drivable area boundary comprises: determining whether the ADV is within a first predetermined proximity of the motion trajectory boundary on the map; and performing at least one of the fail-safe action or the fail operational action, in response to determining that the ADV is within the first predetermined proximity of the motion trajectory boundary.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: determining whether the ADV is within a second predetermined proximity of the safe drivable area boundary, in response to determining that the ADV is within a first predetermined proximity of the motion trajectory boundary; and in response to determining that the ADV is not within the second predetermined proximity, generating a warning signal to a primary autonomous driving system, and transmitting a first signal to a secondary autonomous driving system to initiate at least one of the fail-safe action or the fail operational action.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein transmitting a first signal to a secondary autonomous driving system to initiate at least one of the fail-safe action or the fail operational action comprises: determining whether the ADV is within a low speed zone based on a current location of the ADV and a lane configuration of one or more lanes of a road in which the ADV is located on the map; initialing the fail-safe action if the ADV is determined within the low speed zone; and initiating the fail operational action if the ADV is not within the low speed zone.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein in response to determining that the ADV is within the second predetermined proximity, the method further comprises: determining whether the ADV is within a low speed zone based on a current location of the ADV and a lane configuration of one or more lanes of a road in which the ADV is located on the map; transmitting a second signal to the secondary autonomous driving system to activate the fail-safe action if the ADV is determined within the low speed zone; and transmitting a third signal to the secondary autonomous driving system to activate the fail operational action if the ADV is not within the low speed zone.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the fail-safe action comprises slowing down or stopping the ADV, and wherein the fail operational action comprises controlling the ADV to move according to an alternative trajectory.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the motion trajectory boundary and the safe drivable area boundary are determined by a primary autonomous driving system, and wherein the fail-safe action and the fail operational action are performed by a secondary autonomous driving system serving as a standby system with respect to the primary autonomous driving system.
12. A non-transitory machine-readable medium having instructions stored therein, which when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: obtaining a motion trajectory boundary based on a trajectory that has been planned to drive an autonomous driving vehicle (ADV) for a next time period; determining a safe drivable area boundary for the ADV based on perception data perceiving a driving environment surrounding the ADV; projecting the motion trajectory boundary and the safe drivable area boundary onto a map; determining a relative location of the ADV within the map relative to the motion trajectory boundary and the safe drivable area boundary; and performing a fail-safe action or a fail operational action based on the relative location of the ADV in view of the motion trajectory boundary and the safe drivable area boundary.
13. The machine-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the motion trajectory boundary defines an area within which the ADV is expected to be located for the next time period if the ADV was driven according to the trajectory.
14. The machine-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the motion trajectory boundary is determined based on predicted movement of one or more obstacles within a predetermined proximity of the ADV in view of a current location and a current speed of the ADV according to a set of one or more driving rules.
15. The machine-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the safe drivable area boundary is determined based on a distance between the ADV and each of one or more obstacles identified based on the perception data according to a set of one or more safety clearance rules.
16. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the safe drivable area boundary is determined further based on a lane configuration of one or more lanes of a road in which the ADV is located, and wherein the lane configuration is obtained based on map data of the map.
17. A data processing system, comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor to store instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations including obtaining a motion trajectory boundary based on a trajectory that has been planned to drive an autonomous driving vehicle (ADV) for a next time period, determining a safe drivable area boundary for the ADV based on perception data perceiving a driving environment surrounding the ADV, projecting the motion trajectory boundary and the safe drivable area boundary onto a map, determining a relative location of the ADV within the map relative to the motion trajectory boundary and the safe drivable area boundary, and performing a fail-safe action or a fail operational action based on the relative location of the ADV in view of the motion trajectory boundary and the safe drivable area boundary.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the motion trajectory boundary defines an area within which the ADV is expected to be located for the next time period if the ADV was driven according to the trajectory.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the motion trajectory boundary is determined based on predicted movement of one or more obstacles within a predetermined proximity of the ADV in view of a current location and a current speed of the ADV according to a set of one or more driving rules.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein the safe drivable area boundary is determined based on a distance between the ADV and each of one or more obstacles identified based on the perception data according to a set of one or more safety clearance rules.
</claims>
</document>
