<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06F3/0488,G06F40/20,G06F9/451
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, JAEWON
LEE, Haejun
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72424239
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic apparatus is provided. The electronic apparatus includes a display and a processor configured to control the electronic apparatus to: obtain a text corresponding to an input based on a machine reading comprehension (MRC) model, obtain a plurality of operation information by dividing the text into an operation unit of the electronic apparatus, obtain sequence information of the plurality of operation information based on the plurality of operation information and the obtained text, and control the display to provide a guide user interface (UI) to sequentially perform the plurality of operations based on the sequence information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic apparatus comprising: a display; and a processor configured to control the electronic apparatus to: obtain a text corresponding to an input based on a machine reading comprehension (MRC) model, obtain a plurality of operation information by dividing the text into an operation unit of the electronic apparatus, obtain sequence information of the plurality of operation information based on the plurality of operation information and the obtained text, and control the display to provide a guide user interface (UI) to sequentially perform the plurality of operations based on the sequence information.
2. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the operation unit is based on a context requiring a touch input.
3. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to control the electronic apparatus to: obtain current setting state information on the electronic apparatus, identify at least one operation information, among the plurality of operation information, pre-performed in the electronic apparatus based on the current setting state information, and obtain the sequence information based on remaining operation information other than the identified operation information.
4. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to control the electronic apparatus to: obtain current setting state information of the electronic apparatus, obtain additional operation information required to execute a function corresponding to the obtained text, in addition to the plurality of operation information, based on the current setting state information, and obtain the sequence information based on the plurality of operation information and the additional operation information.
5. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to control the electronic apparatus to: provide a first guide UI based on information related to a touch input required to execute first operation information among the plurality of operation information based on the sequence information, based on a context of the electronic apparatus being changed based on a touch input corresponding to the first guide UI, control the display to provide a second guide UI based on information related to a touch input required to execute second operation information among the plurality of operation information based on the changed context and the sequence information.
6. The electronic apparatus of claim 5, wherein the information related to the touch input comprises at least one of a position or a touch type of the touch input.
7. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the MRC model comprises a question generation (QG) model configured to obtain a question and a question answer (QA) model configured to obtain an answer corresponding to the obtained question by performing natural language processing (NLP) based on a plurality of sentences included in a manual of the electronic apparatus.
8. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a communicator comprising communication circuitry; wherein the processor is further configured to control the electronic apparatus to: control the communicator to transmit the input to a server, and based on receiving a text corresponding to the input from the server, obtain the plurality of operation information and the sequence information based on the received text, and wherein the obtained text is based on the manual and the MRC model of the electronic apparatus.
9. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to control the electronic apparatus to, based on an identification that at least one of the position or the touch type of the touch input not corresponding to the guide UI, provide at least one of a visual feedback or a sound feedback.
10. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to control the electronic apparatus to: provide a UI for selecting any one of a manual mode or an automatic mode, and based on the automatic mode being selected, sequentially perform the plurality of operations by performing a touch input function corresponding to the guide UI.
11. The electronic apparatus of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to control the electronic apparatus to perform a touch input function corresponding to the guide UI and provide a visual feedback indicative of performing the touch input function.
12. A method of controlling an electronic apparatus, the method comprising: obtaining a text corresponding to an input based on a machine reading comprehension (MRC) model; obtaining a plurality of operation information by dividing the text into an operation unit of the electronic apparatus; obtaining sequence information of the plurality of operation information based on the plurality of operation information and the obtained text; and providing a guide user interface (UI) to sequentially perform the plurality of operations based on the sequence information.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the operation unit is based on a context requiring a touch input.
14. The method of claim 12, comprising: obtaining current setting state information on the electronic apparatus, wherein the obtaining the sequence information comprises: identifying at least one operation information, among the plurality of operation information, pre-performed in the electronic apparatus based on the current setting state information; and obtaining the sequence information based on remaining operation information other than the identified operation information.
15. The method of claim 12, comprising: obtaining current setting state information of the electronic apparatus; and obtaining additional operation information required to execute a function corresponding to the obtained text, in addition to the plurality of operation information, based on the current setting state information, wherein the obtaining the sequence information comprises obtaining the sequence information based on the plurality of operation information and the additional operation information.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the providing the guide UI comprises: providing a first guide UI based on information related to a touch input required to execute first operation information among the plurality of operation information based on the sequence information; and based on a context of the electronic apparatus being changed based on a touch input corresponding to the first guide UI, providing a second guide UI based on information related to a touch input required to execute second operation information among the plurality of operation information based on the changed context and the sequence information.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the information related to the touch input comprises at least one of a position or a touch type of the touch input.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the MRC model comprises a question generation (QG) model configured to obtain a question and a question answer (QA) model configured to obtain an answer corresponding to the obtained question by performing natural language processing (NLP) based on a plurality of sentences included in a manual of the electronic apparatus.
19. The method of claim 12, wherein the obtaining the text comprises: transmitting the input to a server, wherein the text is obtained based on a manual and the MRC model of the electronic apparatus.
20. The method of claim 12, comprising: based on an identification that at least one of the position or the touch type of the touch input of the user not corresponding to the guide UI, providing at least one of a visual feedback or a sound feedback.
</claims>
</document>
