<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02,G06Q50/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WILDFIRE SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GLAZIER, JORDAN
MARKHAM, JR., LLOYD DANIEL
MILLER, IAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71732667
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPLICATION USER INTERFACE MONETIZATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
System that enables a user to share a referral link to content obtained from the user interface of an application user is using. When recipient uses the link (for example by purchasing a product), user who shared the link may receive a commission. System may monitor an application user interface, by subscribing to events broadcast by the operating system when the user interface changes. For a web browser, the system may analyze events to extract the URL of the page being browsed, and compare this URL to a database of merchants or services that support referrals. When the URL matches a database entry, the system may present a sharing menu that allows the user to share a referral link via email, text, social media, or other sharing service. The user may also be able to use the referral link directly to receive a credit for his or her own purchase.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An application user interface monetization system comprising: a database comprising one or more listings, each listing of said one or more listings comprising one or more of a product, a service, a brand, a merchant, a name of a merchant, a name of a web site, a name of a product, a name of a service, a location, a review, a rating, a product number, a model number, a description, a picture, an image, a diagram, a barcode, a UPC number, an RF code, an activity, a keyword, a phrase, a product category, an SKU, an instruction, a suggestion, a solution, an information source, a person, an organization, a professional; a computer or server that executes specific instructions to implement a referral matcher coupled to said database, wherein said referral matcher is configured to obtain or accept content from a user interface of an application used by a first user; analyze said content to identify at least one match to said listing; generate a referral link after said selected match is identified, wherein said referral link comprises an embedded referral tracking code, and a link configured to lead to one or more of a site associated with said at least one match, and an intermediate server that redirects to said site; an identifier of said at least one match; and, an identifier of said first user; and, a referral tracker coupled to said referral link, wherein said referral tracker is configured to track usage of said referral link by said one or more second users; attribute to said first user an action taken at said site by said one or more second users associated with said usage of said referral link; and, record a transaction associated with said action.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein said referral matcher is further configured to accept an indication from said first user of which of said at least one match to utilize based on said indication from said first user or a previous preference accepted from said first user to yield a selected match.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein said obtain or accept content from said user interface of said application used by said first user comprises receive events generated by an operating system on which said application executes, wherein said events describe changes in said user interface of said application.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein said application comprises a mobile application installed on a mobile device used by said first user.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein said operating system comprises a mobile device operating system.
6. The system of claim 3, wherein said events are generated by accessibility services of said operating system.
7. The system of claim 3, wherein said analyze said content to identify at least one match to said listing further comprises process said events to obtain one or more view elements of said user interface; and, compare said one or more view elements to said one or more listings.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein said one or more view elements comprise one or more of URL, text, image, icon, logo, code, SKU, product identifier, application identifier, merchant identifier.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein said application comprises a web browser; and, said one or more view elements comprise a URL in an address bar of said web browser.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein said process said events to obtain said one or more view elements comprises determine whether said one or more view elements contain text that matches a pattern for said URL.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein said process said events to obtain one or more view elements further comprises determine whether an identifier of a view element of said one or more view elements matches an identifier of said address bar.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein said referral matcher is further configured to when said analyze said content identifies said at least one match, present a share and earn option to said first user; when said share and earn option is selected by said first user, generate said referral link; present a sharing menu to said first user that comprises one or more sharing methods; when said user selects a sharing method of said one or more sharing methods, insert said referral link into said communication from said first user to said one or more second user, wherein said communication is created using said sharing method.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein said referral matcher is further configured to when said analyze said content identifies said at least one match, present a cash back option to said first user; when said cash back option is selected by said first user, generate said referral link; and, redirect said application to said referral link.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein said communication comprises one or more of a message, a text message, an email message, a voice message, a video message, a website link, a link to a mobile application, a picture message, a transcribed message, a communication via social media, a communication via a shopping site, a communication via a message board, a posting to a product review service, an encrypted message, a digital communication, a comment posted to a digital media service, a communication via a messaging application.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein said usage of said referral link comprises one or more of a tap, click, gesture, response, user interface interaction, verbal command.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein said action taken comprises one or more of a click, view, visit, transaction, purchase, reservation, subscription, sign-up, submission, software installation, download, inquiry, content consumption, survey completion, participation in a digital interaction.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein said site comprises one or more of a website, a software application, an e-commerce service, a merchant shopping cart, a mobile application, a computer application, a store, a redirector, a link-tracking service, an affiliate network, a video player, a coupon or coupon code, a promotion or promotion code, a discount code, a transaction code, a mapping service, a URL.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein said database further comprises one or more of a file, library, catalog, directory, open graph, real-time web search, cached web search result, data feed.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein said intermediate server is configured to identify one or more destinations that match said referral link; select a specific destination from said one or more destinations; redirect said second user to said specific destination.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein said select said specific destination from said one or more destinations that match said referral link comprises compare said one or more destinations on a performance metric; and, select a destination from said one or more destinations with a best performance metric.
</claims>
</document>
