<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01H11/06,G01M15/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOVUS AUSTRALIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCOTT, JOHN
HANNAH, PAUL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62706564
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Machine Monitoring
</title>

<abstract>
A monitoring system for monitoring a machine, the monitoring system including at least one monitoring device and one or more processing systems. The monitoring device includes a housing, a coupling that physically attaches the housing to the machine, a plurality of sensors, the plurality of sensors including a vibration sensor that senses vibration transmitted from the machine to the vibration sensor at least in part via the coupling, a monitoring device processor that acquires sensors signals from the plurality of sensors and generates sensor data at least partially in accordance with signals from the sensors, and a transmitter that transmits the sensor data. The one or more processing systems receive the sensor data, analyse the sensor data to determine a machine status and either store an indication of the machine status as part of machine status data associated with respective machine or cause a status indication indicative of the machine status to be displayed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-61. (canceled)
62. A monitoring system for monitoring a machine, the monitoring system including: a) at least one monitoring device including: i) a housing; ii) a coupling that physically attaches the housing to the machine; iii) a plurality of sensors, the plurality of sensors including a vibration sensor that senses vibration transmitted from the machine to the vibration sensor at least in part via the coupling; iv) a monitoring device processor that: (1) acquires sensors signals from the plurality of sensors; and, (2) generates sensor data at least partially in accordance with signals from the sensors; v) a transmitter that transmits the sensor data; and, b) one or more processing systems that: i) receive the sensor data; ii) analyse the sensor data to determine a machine status; and, iii) at least one of: (1) store an indication of the machine status as part of machine status data associated with the respective machine; and, (2) cause a status indication indicative of the machine status to be displayed.
63. A monitoring system according to claim 62, wherein the vibration sensor includes a microphone acoustically coupled to the machine at least in part via a rigid mechanical coupling member and wherein the microphone is provided adjacent a first end of a cavity and the rigid coupling member includes a projection extending from the housing to a second end of the cavity, to thereby couple vibrations to the microphone via the cavity.
64. A monitoring system according to claim 63, wherein at least one of: a) the cavity is an opening provided in a circuit board, the microphone being mounted on the circuit board; b) the microphone is a microelectromechanical microphone provided in a housing having an opening facing the cavity; and, c) the projection includes: i) an isolation member in abutment with the circuit board to isolate the cavity from external noise; and, ii) a flattened tip extending into the cavity, such that movement of the tip generates pressure fluctuations within the cavity, the pressure fluctuations corresponding to the vibrations.
65. A monitoring system according to claim 62, wherein the coupling includes a magnet fixed to the housing and wherein the coupling includes a cup containing the magnet so that the cup engages the machine to thereby transmit vibrations from the machine to the housing.
66. A monitoring system according to claim 65, wherein the coupling includes at least one of: a) a number of teeth that engage the machine in use to thereby at least one of: i) assist in securing the monitoring device to the machine; and, ii) assist in transmitting vibrations from the machine to the monitoring device housing; and, b) a surface shaped to conform to an outer surface of the machine to thereby at least one of: i) assist in securing the monitoring device to the machine; and, ii) assist in transmitting vibrations from the machine to the monitoring device housing.
67. A monitoring system according to claim 62, wherein the sensor data includes at least one of: a) a monitoring device identifier; b) signals from the sensors; and, c) one or more parameters derived from signals from the sensors.
68. A monitoring system according to claim 62, wherein the monitoring device at least partially processes the sensor signals.
69. A monitoring system according to claim 62, wherein the system: a) uses signals from one or more sensors during a first time period to establish reference behavior for the machine; and, b) uses signals from the one or more sensors and the reference behavior to determine a machine status.
70. A monitoring system according to claim 69, wherein the system: a) uses signals from one or more sensors to generate reference data indicative of the reference behavior, the reference data being indicative of at least one of: i) signals from the one or more sensors; ii) parameters derived from signals from the one or more sensors; iii) patterns derived from signals from the one or more sensors; iv) reference thresholds derived from the signals from the one or more sensors; and, v) reference ranges derived from the signals from the one or more sensors; and, b) determines operational data using signals from the one or more sensors, the operational data being based on at least one of: i) signals from the one or more sensors; ii) parameters derived from signals from the one or more sensors; and, iii) patterns derived from signals from the one or more sensors; and, c) determines a machine status at least in part based on the reference data and signals from the one or more sensors by comparing the operational data to the reference data.
71. A monitoring system according to claim 62, wherein the system assesses the machine status at least in part using machine learning techniques.
72. A monitoring system according to claim 71, wherein the system uses machine learning techniques to: a) identify at least one category of behavior for the machine from the reference behavior; and, b) determine the machine status by analyzing signals from the one or more sensors to categorize a current behavior based on the at least one category.
73. A monitoring system according to claim 62, wherein the system analyses signals from the one or more sensors with respect to reference behavior determined during corresponding time intervals during which the machine is expected to exhibit similar behavior.
74. A monitoring system according to claim 62, wherein the system: a) monitors changes in machine status over time; and, b) at least one of: i) stores an indication of changes in machine status as part of machine status data associated with respective machine; ii) cause a status indication indicative of the change in machine status to be displayed.
75. A monitoring system according to claim 62, wherein the system: a) uses signals from one or more sensors during a calibration time period when the monitoring device is attached to a calibration machine to establish calibration data; and, uses the calibration data to interpret signals from the sensors when the monitoring device is attached to the machine; and, b) analyses signals from the vibration and movement sensors; and uses signals from the movement sensor to dynamically calibrate the vibration sensor.
76. A monitoring system according to claim 62, wherein the system: a) determines a monitoring device integrity by at least one of: i) analysing signals from a humidity sensor to determine changes in humidity within the housing; and, using changes in humidity to determine at least one of: (1) if the housing has been breached; and, (2) if a housing seal has failed; and, ii) analysing signals from a light sensor to determine changes in light levels within the housing; and, using changes in light levels to determine at least one of: (1) if the housing has been breached; and, (2) if a housing seal has failed; and, b) selectively generates an alert depending on results of the determination.
77. A monitoring system according to claim 62, wherein the system determines if the monitoring device has been moved by: a) analysing signals from a movement sensor to determine at least one of: i) movement; and, ii) a change in orientation; b) analysing signals from a microphone to determine a change in noise levels; and, c) determine a wireless network signal strength to determine a change in position of the transmitter relative to a receiver.
78. A monitoring system according to claim 62, wherein the system includes at least one hub that: a) receives sensor data from a plurality of monitoring devices; and, b) transfers the sensor data to the one or more processing devices via a communications network.
79. A monitoring device for use in monitoring a machine, the monitoring device including: a) a housing; b) a coupling that physically attaches the housing to the machine; c) a plurality of sensors, the plurality of sensors including a vibration sensor that senses vibration of the machine transmitted to the vibration sensor at least in part via the coupling; d) monitoring device processor that generates sensor data in accordance with signals from the sensors; and, e) a transmitter that transmits the sensor data, allowing the sensor data to be transferred via a communications network.
80. A method for monitoring a machine, the method including: a) receiving sensor data from a monitoring device attached to the machine, the sensor data being generated at least in part based on signals from a plurality of sensors, the plurality of sensors including a vibration sensor that senses vibration of the machine transmitted to the monitoring device via a coupling; b) analysing the sensor data to determine a machine status; and, c) at least one of: i) store an indication of the machine status; and, ii) cause an indication of a machine status to be displayed.
</claims>
</document>
