<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W50/00,G05D1/00,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GM GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY OPERATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHATTACHARYYA, RAJAN
DAILY, MICHAEL, J.
DE SAPIO, VINCENT
HOLLAND, GAVIN D.
KIM, KYUNG NAM
Ding, Chong
Graber-Tilton, Alexander S.
Martin, Kevin R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72605777
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COGNITIVE PROCESSOR FEEDFORWARD AND FEEDBACK INTEGRATION IN AUTONOMOUS SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
An autonomous vehicle, cognitive system for operating an autonomous vehicle and method of operating an autonomous vehicle. The cognitive system includes one or more hypothesizer modules, a hypothesis resolver, one or more decider modules, and a decision resolver. Data related to an agent is received at the cognitive system. The one or more hypothesizer modules create a plurality of hypotheses for a trajectory of the agent based on the received data. The hypothesis resolver selects a single hypothesis for the trajectory of the agent from the plurality of hypotheses based on a selection criteria. The one or more decider modules create a plurality of decisions for a trajectory of the autonomous vehicle based on the selected hypothesis for the agent. The decision resolver selects a trajectory for the autonomous vehicle from the plurality of decisions. The autonomous vehicle is operated based on the selected trajectory.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of operating an autonomous vehicle, comprising; receiving data related to an agent at a processor of a cognitive system; creating, at one or more hypothesizer modules of the cognitive system, a plurality of hypotheses for a trajectory of the agent based on the received data; selecting, at a hypothesis resolver of the cognitive system, a single hypothesis for the trajectory of the agent from the plurality of hypotheses based on a selection criteria; creating, at one or more decider modules of the cognitive system, a plurality of decisions for a trajectory of the autonomous vehicle based on the selected hypothesis for the agent. selecting, at a decision resolver of the cognitive system, a trajectory for the autonomous vehicle from the plurality of decisions for the trajectory of the autonomous vehicle; operating the autonomous vehicle based on the selected trajectory for the autonomous vehicle.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising projecting, at a virtual controller, a future state of the autonomous vehicle resulting from following the selected trajectory for the autonomous vehicle, the future state being used as a feed-forward prediction at the one or more hypothesizer modules.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more hypothesizer modules, hypothesis resolver, one or more decider modules and decision resolver are modular components of the cognitive system.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the single hypothesis for the trajectory of the agent further comprises fusing at least two of the plurality of hypotheses.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the single trajectory for the autonomous vehicle further comprises fusing at least two of the plurality of decisions.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising using a feedback loop to continuously update at least one of: (i) hypothesis resolution parameters of the hypotheses resolver; and (ii) decision resolution parameters of the decision resolver.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising modulating, at a modulator, an underlying computation for the plurality of hypotheses and the plurality of decisions based on evaluation and feedback.
8. A cognitive system for operating an autonomous vehicle, comprising: one or more hypothesizer modules configured to create a plurality of hypotheses for a trajectory of an agent based on received data; a hypothesis resolver configured to select a single hypothesis for the trajectory of the agent from the plurality of hypotheses based on a selection criteria; one or more decider modules configured to create a plurality of decisions for a trajectory of the autonomous vehicle based on the selected hypothesis for the agent; and a decision resolver configured to select a trajectory for the autonomous vehicle from the plurality of decisions for the trajectory of the autonomous vehicle, wherein the autonomous vehicle is operated based on the selected trajectory.
9. The system of claim 8, further comprising a virtual controller configured to project a future state of the autonomous vehicle based on the selected trajectory for the autonomous vehicle, wherein the one or more hypothesizer modules uses the projected future state as a feed-forward prediction.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein at least one of the one or more hypothesizer modules, hypothesis resolver, one or more decider modules and decision resolver are modular components of the cognitive system.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the hypothesis resolver is further configured to select the single hypothesis for the trajectory of the agent by fusing at least two of the plurality of hypotheses.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the decision resolver is further configured to select the single trajectory for the autonomous vehicle by fusing at least two of the plurality of decisions.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein at least one of: (i) the hypotheses resolver updates hypothesis resolution parameters using a feedback loop; and (ii) the decision resolver updates decision resolution parameters using a feedback loop.
14. The system of claim 8, further comprising a modulator configured to modulate an underlying computation for the plurality of hypotheses and the plurality of decisions based on evaluation and feedback.
15. The system of claim 8, further comprising an evaluator module configured to generate contextual information to the modulator for computing changes to processor parameters.
16. An autonomous vehicle, comprising: a cognitive processor, comprising: one or more hypothesizer modules configured to create a plurality of hypotheses for a trajectory of an agent based on received data; a hypothesis resolver configured to select a single hypothesis for the trajectory of the agent from the plurality of hypotheses based on a selection criteria; one or more decider modules configured to create a plurality of decisions for a trajectory of the autonomous vehicle based on the selected hypothesis for the agent; and a decision resolver configured to select a trajectory for the autonomous vehicle from the plurality of decisions for the trajectory of the autonomous vehicle, wherein the autonomous vehicle is operated based on the selected trajectory.
17. The vehicle of claim 16, wherein the cognitive processor further comprises a virtual controller configured to project a future state of the autonomous vehicle based on the selected trajectory for the autonomous vehicle, wherein the one or more hypothesizer modules uses the projected future state as a feed-forward prediction.
18. The vehicle of claim 16, wherein at least one of the one or more hypothesizer modules, hypothesis resolver, one or more decider modules and decision resolver are modular components of the cognitive system.
19. The vehicle of claim 16, wherein the hypothesis resolver is further configured to select the single hypothesis for the trajectory of the agent by fusing at least two of the plurality of hypotheses.
20. The vehicle of claim 16, wherein the decision resolver is further configured to select the single trajectory for the autonomous vehicle by fusing at least two of the plurality of decisions.
</claims>
</document>
