<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/18,G06F16/182,H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAKSHINYAM, SRINIVASA RAO
NELLURI, GOVINDA RAJULU
BIRUDHARAJU, SHASHANK RAJU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70849449
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISTRIBUTED LEDGER TECHNOLOGY NETWORK PROVISIONER
</title>

<abstract>
A system for intelligently provisioning a distributed ledger technology (DLT) network may be configured to receive requests from authorized users to provision a DLT network based on a plurality of preset parameters. The system may further be configured to generate one or more script, using machine learning or other artificial intelligence algorithms, for provisioning the DLT network according to the preset parameters. One or more nodes in the DLT network can then execute the intelligently generated script to provision the DLT network as requested.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for intelligently provisioning a distributed ledger technology (DLT) network, the system comprising: one or more processor components; one or more memory components operatively coupled to the one or more processor components; computer-readable instructions stored on the one or more memory components and configured to cause the one or more processor components to: receive a request from an authorized user to provision a DLT network, wherein the request comprises a set of parameters associated with the DLT network, wherein the set of parameters comprises at least a first number of permissioned nodes and a second number of non-permissioned nodes; generate one or more scripts to provision the DLT network, wherein the one or more scripts comprise a series of executable instructions based on the set of parameters instructing one or more nodes to provision a DLT network comprising the first number of permissioned nodes and the second number of non-permissioned nodes; transmit, to one or more nodes, the one or more generated scripts to provision the DLT network; and execute the one or more generated scripts to provision the DLT network.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of parameters further comprises at least one of a a network infrastructure, a ledger type, a programming language, or a database.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein generating a script to provision the DLT network further comprises sequencing the series of executable instructions.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein transmitting the one or more generated scripts to provision the DLT network comprises receiving an indication from a node when an executable instruction has been completed by the node and transmitting the next executable instruction in the sequenced series of executable instructions.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein transmitting the one or more generated scripts to one or more nodes comprises communicating over a network with network provisioning adapter located at the one or more nodes.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein the set of parameters associated with the DLT network is a partial set of parameters, and the system is further configured to: compare the partial set of parameters to a set of parameters of a plurality of existing DLT networks, wherein the parameters of a plurality of existing DLT networks are stored in a database communicatively coupled to the system; and determine one or more missing parameters from the partial set of parameters based on the comparison of the partial set of parameters to the parameters of the existing DLT networks.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-readable instructions stored on the one or more memory components are further configured to cause the one or more processor components to store the identified set of parameters in a database communicatively coupled to the system.
8. A computer program product for intelligently provisioning a distributed ledger technology (DLT) network, the computer program product comprising at least one non-transitory computer readable medium comprising computer readable instruction, the instructions comprising instructions for: receiving a request from an authorized user to provision a DLT network, wherein the request comprises a set of parameters associated with the DLT network, wherein the set of parameters comprises at least a first number of permissioned nodes and a second number of non-permissioned nodes; generating one or more scripts to provision the DLT network, wherein the one or more scripts comprise a series of executable instructions based on the set of parameters instructing one or more nodes to provision a DLT network comprising the first number of permissioned nodes and the second number of non-permissioned nodes; transmitting, to one or more nodes, the one or more generated scripts to provision the DLT network; and executing the one or more generated scripts to provision the DLT network.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the set of parameters further comprises at least a network infrastructure, a ledger type, a programming language, or a database.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein generating a script to provision the DLT network further comprises sequencing the series of executable instructions.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein transmitting the one or more generated scripts to provision the DLT network comprises receiving an indication from a node when an executable instruction has been completed by the node and transmitting the next executable instruction in the sequenced series of executable instructions.
12. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein transmitting the one or more generated scripts to one or more nodes comprises communicating over a network with network provisioning adapter located at the one or more nodes.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the set of parameters associated with the DLT network is a partial set of parameters, and the computer program product is further comprises instructions for: comparing the partial set of parameters to a set of parameters of a plurality of existing DLT networks, wherein the parameters of existing DLT networks are stored in a database communicatively coupled to the system; and determining one or more missing parameters from the partial set of parameters based on the comparison of the partial set of parameters to the parameters of the existing DLT networks.
14. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising storing the identified set of parameters in a database communicatively coupled to the system.
15. A method for intelligently provisioning a distributed ledger technology (DLT) network, the method comprising: receiving a request from an authorized user to provision a DLT network, wherein the request comprises a set of parameters associated with the DLT network, wherein the set of parameters comprises at least a first number of permissioned nodes and a second number of non-permissioned nodes; generating one or more scripts to provision the DLT network, wherein the one or more scripts comprise a series of executable instructions based on the set of parameters instructing one or more nodes to provision a DLT network comprising the first number of permissioned nodes and the second number of non-permissioned nodes; transmitting, to one or more nodes, the one or more generated scripts to provision the DLT network; and executing the one or more generated scripts to provision the DLT network.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the set of parameters further comprises at least one of a network infrastructure, a ledger type, a programming language, or a database.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein generating a script to provision the DLT network further comprises sequencing the series of executable instructions.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein transmitting the one or more generated scripts to provision the DLT network comprises receiving an indication from a node when an executable instruction has been completed by the node and transmitting the next executable instruction in the sequenced series of executable instructions.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein transmitting the one or more generated scripts to one or more nodes comprises communicating over a network with network provisioning adapter located at the one or more nodes.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein the set of parameters associated with the DLT network is a partial set of parameters, and the method further comprises: comparing the partial set of parameters to a set of parameters of a plurality of existing DLT networks, wherein the parameters of existing DLT networks are stored in a database communicatively coupled to the system; and determining one or more missing parameters from the partial set of parameters based on the comparison of the partial set of parameters to the parameters of the existing DLT networks.
</claims>
</document>
