<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/197,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAE, JONG HOON
CHOE, SU IL
PARK, ESTHER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67254276
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR RECOGNIZING A VOICE
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are a speech recognition device and a speech recognition method which perform speech recognition by executing an artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms and/or a machine learning algorithm installed thereon, to communicate with other electronic devices and an external server in a 5G communication environment. The speech recognition method according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include converting a series of spoken utterance signals to a text item, extracting a discordant named-entity that is discordant with a parent domain inferred form the text, calculating probabilities of candidate words associated with the discordant named-entity based on calculated distances between a term representing the parent domain and each candidate word associated with the discordant named-entity, and based on the calculated probabilities, modifying the discordant named-entity in the text to one of the candidate words associated with the discordant named-entity.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A speech recognition method by a speech recognition device, comprising: converting a series of spoken utterance signals to a text item; extracting a discordant named-entity discordant with a parent domain inferred from the text item; calculating probabilities for candidate words associated with the discordant named-entity, based on calculation of distances between each candidate word associated with the discordant named-entity and a term representing the parent domain; and modifying, based on the calculated probabilities, the discordant named-entity in the text item to one candidate word among the candidate words associated with the discordant named-entity.
2. The speech recognition method of claim 1, wherein the converting includes: extracting the candidate words by analyzing a pronunciation and a context of a word included in a spoken utterance, using an acoustic model and a language model; calculating probabilities of concordance between each candidate word and the word included in the spoken utterance; and determining a candidate word with the highest probability of concordance and converting the candidate word with the highest probability to the text item.
3. The speech recognition method of claim 1, wherein the extracting includes: inferring the parent domain with respect to the text item by analyzing one or more main named-entities in the text item; and extracting, from the one or more main named-entities, a main named-entity that is at odds with a context of the parent domain, as the discordant named-entity.
4. The speech recognition method of claim 3, wherein the extracting includes comparing the one or more main named-entities to a word in a vocabulary of the parent domain to extract, as the discordant named-entity, a main named-entity that is not included in the vocabulary of the parent domain.
5. The speech recognition method of claim 1, wherein the calculating includes: calculating a distance between the term representing the parent domain and each candidate word associated with the discordant named-entity in a vector space generated by a word embedding method; calculating a weight value of each candidate word associated with the discordant named-entity according to the distance; and applying the weight value of each candidate word associated with the discordant named-entity to a corresponding candidate word to calculate an adjusted probability of each candidate word.
6. The speech recognition method of claim 5, wherein the calculating a weight includes producing a higher weight value for a candidate word associated with the discordant named-entity as the distance between the candidate word associated with the discordant named-entity and the term representing the parent domain decreases.
7. The speech recognition method of claim 5, wherein the modifying includes modifying the discordant named-entity in the text item to a candidate word with the highest adjusted probability selected from the candidate words associated with the discordant named-entity.
8. A computer program stored in a recording medium readable by a computer, for permitting the speech recognition method of claim 1 to be executed by using the computer.
9. A speech recognition device configured to recognize a series of spoken utterance signals, the speech recognition device comprising: a converter configured to convert the series of spoken utterance signals to a text item; a first processor configured to extract a discordant named-entity discordant with a parent domain inferred from the text item; a second processor configured to calculate, based on calculation of a distance between a term representing the parent domain and each candidate word associated with the discordant named-entity, probabilities with respect to each candidate word associated with the discordant named-entity; and a selector configured to modify, based on the calculated probabilities, the discordant named-entity in the text item to one candidate word selected from the candidate words associated with the discordant named-entity.
10. The speech recognition device of claim 9, wherein the converter includes: a first analyzer configured to extract candidate words by analyzing pronunciation and context of a word included in the spoken utterance using an acoustic model and a language model; a first calculator configured to calculate a probability of concordance between each candidate word and the word included in the spoken utterance; and a determiner unit configured to determine a candidate word with the highest probability of concordance from among the candidate words, and to convert the candidate word with the highest probability to the text item.
11. The speech recognition device of claim 9, wherein the first processor includes: a second analyzer configured to analyze one or more main named-entities from the text item to infer the parent domain with respect to the text item; and an extractor configured to extract, as the discordant named-entity, from the one or more main named-entities, a main named-entity that is at odds with a context of the parent domain.
12. The speech recognition device of claim 11, wherein the extractor is configured to compare words in a vocabulary of the parent domain to the one or more main named-entities to extract, as the discordant named-entity, a main named-entity not included in the vocabulary of the parent domain.
13. The speech recognition device of claim 9, wherein the second processor includes: a second calculator configured to calculate a distance between the term representing the parent domain and each candidate word associated with the discordant named-entity in a vector space generated by a word embedding method; a third calculator configured to calculate, based on the distance, a weight value with respect to each candidate word associated with the discordant named-entity; and a fourth calculator configured to apply the weight value to each corresponding candidate word associated with the discordant named-entity to produce an adjusted probability with respect to each candidate word associated with the discordant named-entity.
14. The speech recognition device of claim 13, wherein the third calculator is configured to produce a higher weight value for a candidate word associated with the discordant named-entity as the distance between the candidate word associated with the discordant named-entity and the term representing the parent domain decreases.
15. The speech recognition device of claim 13, wherein the selector is configured to modify the discordant named-entity in the text item to a candidate word associated with the discordant named-entity having the highest adjusted probability.
</claims>
</document>
