<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01K3/10,G01K3/14,G06F17/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMD (ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FARMAHINI-FARAHANI, AMIN
GURUMURTHI, SUDHANVA
Valad Beigi, Majed
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73549716
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TEMPERATURE-BASED ADJUSTMENTS FOR IN-MEMORY MATRIX MULTIPLICATION
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for performing in-memory matrix multiplication, taking into account temperature variations in the memory, are disclosed. In one example, the matrix multiplication memory uses ohmic multiplication and current summing to perform the dot products involved in matrix multiplication. One downside to this analog form of multiplication is that temperature affects the accuracy of the results. Thus techniques are provided herein to compensate for the effects of temperature increases on the accuracy of in-memory matrix multiplications. According to the techniques, portions of input matrices are classified as effective or ineffective. Effective portions are mapped to low temperature regions of the in-memory matrix multiplier and ineffective portions are mapped to high temperature regions of the in-memory matrix multiplier. The matrix multiplication is then performed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for performing an in-memory matrix multiplication, the method comprising: classifying regions of an in-memory processor as at least one low temperature region and at least one high temperature region; classifying a first matrix portion of a matrix as being effective and a second matrix portion of the matrix as being ineffective; assigning the first matrix portion to the low temperature region and assigning the second matrix portion to the high temperature region; and performing a matrix multiplication in the in-memory processor, with the matrix, to receive a product.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein classifying the regions of the in-memory processor comprises: determining a temperature for a subject region; and classifying the subject region as either a low temperature region or a high temperature region based on a comparison of the temperature with a temperature threshold.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein: the subject region comprises a peripheral region having a peripheral temperature sensor and a central temperature sensor; and determining the temperature for the subject region comprises determining the temperature as the highest temperature measured by the peripheral temperature sensor and the central temperature sensor.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein: the in-memory processor includes peripheral regions, each having a peripheral temperature sensor and a central temperature sensor; the in-memory processor includes non-peripheral regions, each including a central temperature sensor; the subject region comprises one of the non-peripheral regions; and determining the temperature for the subject region comprises determining temperature based on temperatures measured for a peripheral region and for the subject region.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein classifying the first matrix portion as effective comprises: determining that the number of non-zero elements of the first matrix portion is above a threshold.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein classifying the second matrix portion as ineffective comprises: determining that the number of non-zero elements of the second matrix portion is below a threshold.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein assigning the first matrix portion to the low temperature region and assigning the second matrix portion to the high temperature region comprises swapping the first matrix portion and the second matrix portion.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the matrix multiplication comprises: applying a set of voltages corresponding to an input vector to a set of wordlines of the in-memory processor.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising swapping elements of an input vector.
10. An in-memory matrix multiplication processing system comprising: a temperature controller; and an in-memory processor, wherein the temperature controller is configured to: classify regions of the in-memory processor as at least one low temperature region and at least one high temperature region, classify a first matrix portion of a matrix as being effective and a second matrix portion of the matrix as being ineffective, assign the first matrix portion to the low temperature region and assign the second matrix portion to the high temperature region, and perform a matrix multiplication in the in-memory processor, with the matrix, to receive a product.
11. The in-memory matrix multiplication processing system of claim 10, wherein classifying the regions of the in-memory processor comprises: determining a temperature for a subject region; and classifying the subject region as either a low temperature region or a high temperature region based on a comparison of the temperature with a temperature threshold.
12. The in-memory matrix multiplication processing system of claim 11, wherein the subject region comprises a peripheral region having a peripheral temperature sensor and a central temperature sensor; and determining the temperature for the subject region comprises determining the temperature as the highest temperature measured by the peripheral temperature sensor and the central temperature sensor.
13. The in-memory matrix multiplication processing system of claim 12, wherein: the in-memory processor includes peripheral regions, each having a peripheral temperature sensor and a central temperature sensor; the in-memory processor includes non-peripheral regions, each including a central temperature sensor; the subject region comprises one of the non-peripheral regions; and determining the temperature for the subject region comprises determining temperature based on temperatures measured for a peripheral region and for the subject region.
14. The in-memory matrix multiplication processing system of claim 10, wherein classifying the first matrix portion as effective comprises: determining that the number of non-zero elements of the first matrix portion is above a threshold.
15. The in-memory matrix multiplication processing system of claim 10, wherein classifying the second matrix portion as ineffective comprises: determining that the number of non-zero elements of the second matrix portion is below a threshold.
16. The in-memory matrix multiplication processing system of claim 10, wherein assigning the first matrix portion to the low temperature region and assigning the second matrix portion to the high temperature region comprises swapping the first matrix portion and the second matrix portion.
17. The in-memory matrix multiplication processing system of claim 10, wherein performing the matrix multiplication comprises: applying a set of voltages corresponding to an input vector to a set of wordlines of the in-memory processor.
18. The in-memory matrix multiplication processing system of claim 10, wherein the temperature controller is further configured to swap element of an input vector.
19. A computing device comprising: a processor; and an in-memory matrix multiplication processing system comprising: a temperature controller; and an in-memory processor, wherein the temperature controller is configured to: classify regions of the in-memory processor as at least one low temperature region and at least one high temperature region, classify a first matrix portion of a matrix as being effective and a second matrix portion of the matrix as being ineffective, assign the first matrix portion to the low temperature region and assign the second matrix portion to the high temperature region, and perform a matrix multiplication in the in-memory processor, with the matrix, to receive a product.
20. The computing device of claim 19, wherein classifying the regions of the in-memory processor comprises: determining a temperature for a subject region; and classifying the subject region as either a low temperature region or a high temperature region based on a comparison of the temperature with a temperature threshold.
</claims>
</document>
