<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAM, JOSEPH
CO, HAU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514412
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COGNITIVE MULTIPLE-LEVEL HIGHLIGHT CONTRASTING FOR ENTITIES
</title>

<abstract>
A computer identifies entity-containing content. The computer analyzes the entity-containing content for entities. The computer identifies a plurality of hierarchy levels for the entities. The computer receives selections of highlights for the entities, wherein the highlights for the entities within each hierarchy level share one or more characteristics. The computer applies entity contrasting. The computer outputs the entity-containing content with applied entity contrasting to a user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for multiple-level highlight contrasting for entities, the method comprising: identifying entity-containing content; analyzing the entity-containing content for entities; identifying a plurality of hierarchy levels for the entities; receiving selections of highlights for the entities, wherein the highlights for the entities within each hierarchy level share one or more characteristics; applying entity contrasting; and outputting the entity-containing content with applied entity contrasting to a user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the entity-containing content for entities comprises using natural language processing to identify text entities.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving user adjustments to an entity selection; and adjusting the selections of highlights for the entities based upon the user adjustments.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving selections of highlights for the entities further comprises: determining a quantity of categories of the entities in each of the plurality of hierarchy levels; receiving a selection of brightness of highlights for at least one of the plurality of hierarchy levels; and providing a plurality of highlight options for at least one of the plurality of hierarchy levels.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the highlights for the entities are patterns which will surround the entities when applied.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the highlights for the entities are colors which will surround the entities when applied.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the selections of highlights for the entities of a first hierarchy level of the plurality of hierarchy levels are light colors and the selections of highlights for the entities of a second hierarchy level of the plurality of hierarchy levels are dark colors.
8. A system for multiple-level highlight contrasting for entities, the system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory communicatively coupled to the one or more processors, wherein the memory comprises instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising: identifying entity-containing content; analyzing the entity-containing content for entities; identifying a plurality of hierarchy levels for the entities; receiving selections of highlights for the entities, wherein the highlights for the entities within each hierarchy level share one or more characteristics; applying entity contrasting; and outputting the entity-containing content with applied entity contrasting to a user.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein analyzing the entity-containing content for entities comprises using natural language processing to identify text entities.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to: receive user adjustments to an entity selection; and adjust the selections of highlights for the entities based upon the user adjustments.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein receiving selections of highlights for the entities further comprises: determining a quantity of categories of the entities in each of the plurality of hierarchy levels; receiving a selection of brightness of highlights for at least one of the plurality of hierarchy levels; and providing a plurality of highlight options for at least one of the plurality of hierarchy levels.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the highlights for the entities are patterns which will surround the entities when applied.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the highlights for the entities are colors which will surround the entities when applied.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the selections of highlights for the entities of a first hierarchy level of the plurality of hierarchy levels are light colors and the selections of highlights for the entities of a second hierarchy level of the plurality of hierarchy levels are dark colors.
15. A computer program product for multiple-level highlight contrasting for entities, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to perform a method comprising: identifying entity-containing content; analyzing the entity-containing content for entities; identifying a plurality of hierarchy levels for the entities; receiving selections of highlights for the entities, wherein the highlights for the entities within each hierarchy level share one or more characteristics; applying entity contrasting; and outputting the entity-containing content with applied entity contrasting to a user.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein analyzing the entity-containing content for entities comprises using natural language processing to identify text entities.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the program instructions are further configured to cause the computer to: receive user adjustments to an entity selection; and adjust the selections of highlights for the entities based upon the user adjustments.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein receiving selections of highlights for the entities further comprises: determining a quantity of categories of the entities in each of the plurality of hierarchy levels; receiving a selection of brightness of highlights for at least one of the plurality of hierarchy levels; and providing a plurality of highlight options for at least one of the plurality of hierarchy levels.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the highlights for the entities are colors which will surround the entities when applied.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the selections of highlights for the entities of a first hierarchy level of the plurality of hierarchy levels are light colors and the selections of highlights for the entities of a second hierarchy level of the plurality of hierarchy levels are dark colors.
</claims>
</document>
