<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/274,G06F9/30,G06N20/00,G06N3/063,G06N3/08,G06T11/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHANGHAI CAMBRICON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HU, SHUAI
CHEN, TIANSHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69374132
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SIGNAL PROCESSING DEVICE, SIGNAL PROCESSING METHOD AND RELATED PRODUCTS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides a signal processing device that includes: a signal collector configured to obtain an image to be processed, a signal collector configured to collect an input signal, an instruction converter configured to convert the signal into an image processing instruction according to a target signal instruction conversion model, an image processor configured to edit the image to be processed according to the image processing instruction and a target image processing model to obtain a result image. Examples taught in the present disclosure implements a user command to process images, which saves users' time spent in learning image processing software prior to image processing and improves user experience.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A signal processing device, comprising: a signal collector configured to obtain an image to be processed and collect an input signal; a memory for storing the image to be processed; an instruction converter configured to convert the signal into an image processing instruction according to a target signal instruction conversion model; and an image processor configured to edit the image to be processed according to the image processing instruction and a target image processing model to obtain a result image.
2. The signal processing device of claim 1, wherein the image processing instruction includes at least one of the following: an image editing area, an image editing method, and an image editing mode, wherein the image editing mode is a real-time editing mode, or a single image editing mode, or a multi-image editing mode.
3. The signal processing device of claim 1, wherein the image to be processed comprises content that is captured in real time by an image collecting device, or comprises at least one frame of an image or a video stored in the memory.
4. The signal processing device of claim 2, wherein the instruction converter includes: a first signal recognizer configured to convert the signal into text information through a signal recognition technology, wherein the signal recognition technology is at least one of the following: a voice recognition technology, a semantic understanding technology, an image recognition technology, and a natural language processing technology, a signal text converter configured to convert the text information into an image processing method through the natural language processing technology and the target signal instruction conversion model, and a first image recognizer configured to divide the image to be processed into areas according to a granularity of a semantic area in the image processing instruction and the image recognition technology to obtain an image editing area.
5. The signal processing device of claim 2, wherein the instruction converter includes: a second signal recognizer configured to convert the signal into the image editing method according to the signal recognition technology and the target signal instruction conversion model, and a second image recognizer configured to divide the image to be processed into areas according to a granularity of the semantic area in the image processing instruction and the image recognition technology to obtain the image editing area.
6. The signal processing device of claim 3, wherein the image processor includes: an instruction fetching module configured to obtain an image processing instruction in a preset time window, and a processing module configured to process the image editing area according to the image processing instruction and the target image processing model.
7. The signal processing device of claim 1, wherein the signal includes at least one of the following: a voice signal, an image signal, a text signal, and a sensor signal.
8. The signal processing device of claim 1, wherein the target signal instruction conversion model is obtained by implementing adaptive training on a signal instruction conversion model, and wherein the target image processing model is obtained by implementing adaptive training on an image processing model.
9. The signal processing device of claim 8, wherein the instruction converter is configured to: convert the signal into a prediction instruction according to the signal instruction conversion model, determine a correlation coefficient between the prediction instruction and a corresponding instruction set of the prediction instruction, and optimize the signal instruction conversion model according to the correlation coefficient between the prediction instruction and the corresponding instruction set of the prediction instruction to obtain the target signal instruction conversion model.
10. The signal processing device of claim 1, further comprising a trainer configured to: convert the signal into the prediction instruction according to the instruction conversion model, determine the correlation coefficient between the prediction instruction and the corresponding instruction set of the prediction instruction, optimize the signal instruction conversion model according to the correlation coefficient between the prediction instruction and the corresponding instruction set of the prediction instruction to obtain the target signal instruction conversion model; process the image to be processed according to the image processing model to obtain a predicted image, determine a correlation coefficient between the predicted image and a corresponding target image of the predicted image, and optimize the image processing model according to the correlation coefficient between the predicted image and the corresponding target image of the predicted image to obtain the target image processing model.
11. (canceled)
12. The signal processing device of claim 8, wherein the image processor is further configured to: process the image to be processed according to the image processing model to obtain a predicted image, determine a correlation coefficient between the predicted image and a corresponding target image of the predicted image, and optimize the image processing model according to the correlation coefficient between the predicted image and the corresponding target image of the predicted image to obtain the target image processing model.
13. (canceled)
14. (canceled)
15. The signal processing device of claim 8, wherein the signal processing device is configured to: convert the voice signal into the prediction instruction according to the signal instruction conversion model, determine the correlation coefficient between the prediction instruction and the corresponding instruction set of the prediction instruction, and optimize the signal instruction conversion model according to the correlation coefficient between the prediction instruction and the corresponding instruction set of the prediction instruction to obtain the target signal instruction conversion model.
16. (canceled)
17. The signal processing device of claim 8, wherein the signal processing device is configured to: process the image to be processed according to the image processing model to obtain a predicted image, determine the correlation coefficient between the predicted image and the corresponding target image of the predicted image, and optimize the image processing model according to the correlation coefficient between the predicted image and the corresponding target image to obtain the target image processing model.
18. A machine learning operation device, comprising one or more signal processing devices of claim 1, wherein the machine learning operation device is configured to obtain data to be processed and control information from other processing devices, perform specified machine learning computations, and send execution results to peripheral devices through I/O interfaces; if the machine learning operation device includes multiple signal processing devices, the multiple signal processing devices transfer data between each other; wherein the data is transferred among the multiple signal processing devices via a PCIE bus, so as to support larger scale machine learning computations; the multiple signal processing devices share one control system or have separate control systems.
19. 19.-20. (canceled)
21. A neural network chip, comprising the machine learning operation device of claim 18.
22. 22.-23. (canceled)
24. A signal processing method, comprising obtaining an image to be processed; collecting an input signal; converting the signal into an image processing instruction according to a target signal instruction conversion model; and editing the image to be processed according to the image processing instruction and a target image processing model to obtain a result image.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the image processing instruction includes at least one of the following: an image editing area, an image editing method, and an image editing mode, wherein the image editing mode is a real-time editing mode, or a single-image editing mode, or a multiple-image editing mode.
26. The method of claim 24, wherein the image to be processed comprises content that is captured in real time by an image obtaining device, or comprises at least one frame of an image or a video stored from a memory or a cache.
27. The method of claim 24, wherein the converting the signal into an image processing instruction according to the target signal instruction conversion model includes: converting the signal into text information through a signal recognition technology, wherein the signal recognition technology is at least one of the following: a voice recognition technology, a semantic understanding technology, an image recognition technology, and a natural language processing technology, converting the text information into the image editing method through the natural language processing technology and the target signal instruction conversion model, and dividing the image to be processed into areas according to a granularity of the semantic area in the image processing instruction and the image recognition technology to obtain an image editing area.
28. The method of claim 25, wherein the converting the signal into an image processing instruction according to the target signal instruction conversion model includes: converting, by a second signal recognizer, the signal into the image editing method according to the signal recognition technology and the target signal instruction conversion model, and dividing, by a second image recognizer, the image to be processed into areas according to a granularity of the semantic area of the image to be processed and the image processing instruction to obtain the image editing area.
29. The method of claim 26, wherein the editing the image to be processed according to the image processing instruction and the target image processing model to obtain a result image includes: obtaining an image processing instruction in a preset time window, and processing the image editing area according to the image processing instructions and the target image processing model.
30. The method of claim 24, wherein the signal includes at least one of the following: a voice signal, an image signal, a text signal, and a sensor signal.
</claims>
</document>
