<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0205,A61B5/05,A61B5/11,H04B5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CORNELL UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAN, EDWIN, C.
HUI, XIAONAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64659394
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR ELECTROMAGNETIC NEAR-FIELD COHERENT SENSING
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure may be embodied as methods and/or systems for non-contact measuring of an on-body and/or inside-body motion of an individual. A sensing signal is provided within a near-field coupling range of a motion to be measured. In this way, a measurement signal may be generated as the sensing signal modulated by the motion. The sensing signal may be an ID-modulated signal. In some embodiments, the sensing signal is a backscattered RFID link provided a wireless tag. A downlink signal may be provided to power the wireless tag. The sensing signal may be a harmonic of the downlink signal. The measurement signal is detected. The motion is measured based on the measurement signal. The measurement signal may be detected as far-field radiation after transmission through a source of the motion. The measurement signal may be detected as reflected from a source of the motion as antenna reflection.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for non-contact measuring of an on-body and/or inside-body motion of an individual using a near-field coherent sensing system (NCS), comprising: disposing a first tag comprising a first near-field antenna within a first near-field coupling range of a first motion to be measured; outputting, via the NCS, a first sensing signal within the near-field coupling range of the first motion to be measured to generate a first measurement signal that is modulated by the first motion; detecting the first measurement signal; and measuring the first motion based on the first measurement signal, wherein the first near-field coupling range is less than about one wavelength of the first near-field antenna.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first sensing signal is an ID-modulated signal or is an active radio link or a backscattered RFID link.
3. (canceled)
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first sensing signal is provided by a wireless tag, and the method includes providing a downlink signal to power the wireless tag and, optionally, wherein the first sensing signal is a harmonic of the downlink signal.
5. (canceled)
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first measurement signal is detected far-field radiation after transmission through a source of the first motion or is detected as reflected from a source of the first motion as antenna reflection.
7. (canceled)
8. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring the first motion further comprises filtering the first measurement signal to obtain a first motion signal through timing and waveforms.
9. The method of claim 2, further comprising: disposing a second tag comprising a second near-field antenna within a second near-field coupling range of a second motion to be measured; outputting, via the NCS, a second RF sensing signal within the second near-field coupling range of the second motion to be measured to generate a second measurement signal that is modulated by the second motion; detecting the second measurement signal; and measuring the second motion based on the second measurement signal, wherein the second near-field coupling range is less than about one wavelength of the second near-field antenna.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising measuring a derivative value based on the synchronized measured first motion and second motion.
11. A near-field coherent sensing system for measuring motion of an individual, comprising: a first tag comprising a first signal source for generating a first sensing signal and a first antenna in electrical communication with the first signal source and wherein the first antenna is configured to be disposed within a first near-field coupling range of a first motion to be measured to generate a first measurement signal as the first sensing signal modulated by the first motion; and a first receiver for detecting the first measurement signal, wherein the first near-field coupling range is less than about one wavelength of the first near-field antenna.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the first antenna is configured to be disposed within a coupling range of a heart motion, a pulse, a respiration motion, a bowel motion, or an eye motion.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the first sensing signal is an ID-modulated wave, an active radio link or a backscattering RFID link.
14. 14-15. (canceled)
16. The system of claim 11, where the first receiver is a part of the first tag.
17. (canceled)
18. The system of claim 11, wherein a frequency of the first sensing signal is a harmonic of a frequency of a downlink signal to the first tag.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the first tag modulates a received downlink signal with an orthogonal ID, such that the first sensing signal is a CDMA signal.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the first receiver is configured to detect the first measurement signal as a transmitted signal or as a reflected signal.
21. (canceled)
22. The system of claim 11, further comprising a filter in communication with the first receiver, wherein the filter is configured to demodulate and filter the first measurement signal to obtain a first motion signal.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the filter is a processor programmed to sample, demodulate, and filter the first measurement signal to derive motion.
24. The system of claim 11, further comprising: a second tag comprising a second signal source for generating a second sensing signal and a second antenna in electrical communication with the second signal source and wherein the second antenna is configured to be disposed within a second near-field coupling range of a second motion to be measured to generate a second measurement signal as the second sensing signal modulated by the second motion; and wherein the receiver is further configured to detect the second measurement signal, wherein the second near-field coupling range is less than about one wavelength of the second near-field antenna.
25. The system of claim 24, further comprising a processor for measuring a derivative value based on the detected coupled signal and second coupled signal.
26. The method of claim 1, wherein the first sensing signal and the first measurement signal are propagated far field a distance greater than about one wavelength of the first near-field antenna.
27. A method for non-contact measuring of an on-body and/or inside-body motion of an individual, comprising: disposing a first tag comprising a first near-field antenna within a first near-field coupling range of a first motion to be measured; outputting a first radiofrequency ("RF") signal comprising a directly radiated signal to a first far-field and a first sensing signal within the near-field coupling range of the first motion to be measured; generating a first backscattered signal from the first sensing signal modulated by the first motion; propagating an interference signal comprising the directly radiated signal and the backscattered signal to the far-field as a first measurement signal; detecting the first measurement signal; isolating a differential mode and a common mode from the first measurement signal, and measuring the first motion based on the differential mode or the common mode of the measurement signal, wherein the first near-field coupling range is less than about one wavelength of the first near-field antenna, and wherein the first far-field range is greater than about one wavelength of the first near-field antenna.
</claims>
</document>
