<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N3/04,G16H10/60,G16H50/20,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BUSSA, NAGARAJU
JAIN, ANSHUL
PALANISAMY, KRISHNAMOORTHY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57208087
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS, METHODS, AND APPARATUS FOR LINKING FAMILY ELECTRONIC MEDICAL RECORDS AND PREDICTION OF MEDICAL CONDITIONS AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
The embodiments set forth herein relate to systems, methods, and apparatus for using electronic medical records (EMRs) (118, 124, 130, 306, 402, 502) to predict and treat medical conditions. A database (102, 202) of EMR data can be used to compile family trees for different patients. Patterns of medical conditions affecting relatives can be identified and used to predict medical conditions for other relatives. Furthermore, similarities between patients of different family trees (104, 204) can be identified in order to predict and treat medical conditions. In order to accurately predict and treat medical conditions, patient data can be coded to consolidate the amount of patient data available for comparison. Furthermore, coded patient data can be weighted to emphasize data that may be more useful for predicting certain medical conditions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for providing notifications based on changes to electronic medical records (EMRs), the method comprising steps that include: by a computing device: receiving event data that identifies a medical event associated with a first patient that is related to a second patient; receiving measurement data associated with the second patient; identifying a code for classifying the measurement data, wherein the code represents measured medical data that falls within a range of values represented by the code; determining, at least partially based on the code, a probability of the medical event occurring for the second patient; and sending, to a network device associated with the second patient, a notification that relates to the medical event, wherein the steps further include: receiving relationship data that indicates a familial linkage between the first patient and the second patient; and wherein determining the probability of the medical event occurring for the second patient is further based on the familial linkage between the first patient and the second patient.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the probability of the medical event occurring for the second patient includes determining a first weighted score for the relationship data and a second weighted score for the code that classifies the measurement data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps further include: modifying a first electronic medical record (EMR) associated with the first patient to include an event identifier corresponding to the medical event; and modifying a second EMR associated with the second patient to include the event identifier and the probability of the medical event occurring for the second patient.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps further include: receiving, from a remote storage device, research data that provides a correspondence between the measurement data and the medical event, wherein determining the probability of the medical event occurring for the second patient is further based on the research data.
5. A non-transitory computer-readable medium configured to store instructions that when executed by one or more processors of a computing device, cause the computing device to perform steps that include: identifying first relationship data corresponding to a first group of persons, wherein the first group of persons is identified in electronic medical records (EMRs) accessible to the computing device; identifying second relationship data corresponding to a second group of persons, wherein the second group of persons is identified in EMRs accessible to the computing device, and wherein the second group of persons are non-relatives of the first group of persons; identifying, using the first relationship data and the second relationship data, a common familial linkage between at least two persons in each of the first group of persons and the second group of persons; identifying, in a first electronic medical record (EMR) of the first group of persons, a medical event that is at least partially influenced by the identified common familial linkage; and modifying a second EMR of the second group of persons to include an identifier for the medical event.
6. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 5, wherein the step further include: determining, based on one or more data points associated with the first group of persons and the second group of persons, a similarity measure between the first group of persons and the second group of persons, and wherein identifying the common familial linkage between at least two persons in each of the first group of persons and the second group of persons is in response to a determination that the similarity measure satisfies one or more criteria.
7. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 5, wherein identifying the medical event that is at least partially influenced by the identified familial linkage includes determining whether the medical event is associated with a hereditary disease.
8. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 5, wherein identifying the medical event that is at least partially influenced by the identified familial linkage includes identifying the medical event in at least two EMRs of the first group of persons.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 5, wherein the steps further include: modifying a third EMR of the second group of persons to include the identifier for the medical event, wherein the second EMR and the third EMR identify the at least two persons of the second group of persons.
10. A computing device, comprising: one or more processors; and a memory configured to store instructions that when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform steps that include: modifying a first electronic medical record (EMR) of a first patient to include treatment data, the treatment data corresponding to a treatment received by a first patient having a condition; identifying, using familial linkage data accessible to the processor, a second EMR of a second patient that is a relative of the first patient, determining, using the familial linkage data, that the second patient has, or is at risk for having, the condition.
11. The computing device of claim 10, wherein the familial linkage data identifies a first degree of separation in ancestral lineage of the first patient and the second patient; and wherein determining that the second patient has, or is at risk for having, the condition includes identifying, in a database accessible to the one or more processors, other patients that are non-relatives of the first patient and the second patient and have the condition, and comparing the first degree of separation to a second degree of separation in ancestral lineage of the other patients; and modifying a second EMR associated with the second patient to include prospective treatment data that identifies the treatment received by the first patient.
12. The computing device of claim 10, wherein determining that the second patient has, or is at risk for having, the condition includes using the familial linkage data to determine a probability that the second patient has, or will have, the condition.
13. The computing device of claim 10, wherein the steps further include: identifying common medical data in the first EMR and the second EMR; and determining, using a data table accessible to the processor, a weight of the common medical data as an indicator of the condition.
14. The computing device of claim 13, wherein the common medical data is a code that is identified in both the first EMR and the second EMR, and the code represents measured medical data that falls within a range of values represented by the code.
15. The computing device of claim 10, wherein identifying other patients that are non-relatives of the first patient and the second patient includes analyzing a plurality of family trees stored in the database using a deep neural network or Hidden Markov Model.
</claims>
</document>
