<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G06T19/00,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
McCasland, Austin
Nattinger, Elena
Raphael, Seth
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72917233
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MANAGING CONTENT IN AUGMENTED REALITY
</title>

<abstract>
According to an aspect, a method for managing augmented reality (AR) content in an AR environment includes obtaining image data associated with a scene of an AR environment, where the AR environment includes AR content positioned in a coordinate space of the AR environment. The method includes detecting a physical object from the image data, associating the physical object with the AR content, and storing coordinates of the AR content and information indicating that the physical object is associated with the AR content in an AR scene storage for future AR localization.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for managing augmented reality (AR) content in an AR environment, the method comprising: storing a scene of an AR environment captured by a first computing device during an AR session, including: obtaining first image data from a camera associated with the first computing device; receiving an indication that AR content has been added by a user; marking a location of the AR content in a coordinate space of the AR environment; detecting a physical object from the first image data that is referenced by or located proximate to the AR content; and linking the physical object with the AR content in the coordinate space; and attempting to localize the AR environment on a second computing device during a subsequent AR session, including: obtaining second image data from a camera associated with the second computing device; determining that the second image data corresponds to a physical space associated with the first image data; detecting that the physical object is not present or has moved to a new location in the second image data; and initiating an action to manage the AR content associated with the physical object.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting includes detecting a classification of the physical object using an object classification algorithm, wherein the classification is stored with the location of the AR content in the coordinate space.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the object classification algorithm is configured to assign a semantic label to the physical object that corresponds to the detected classification, wherein the AR content is linked to the semantic label.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the initiating the action includes causing the AR content to not be rendered on the second computing device during the subsequent AR session in response to the physical object not being detected in the second image data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the initiating the action includes moving the AR content from the marked location to a location that corresponds to the new location of the physical object in the second image data during the subsequent AR session.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the initiating the action includes transmitting, via an application programming interface (API), a notification to a user that added the AR content, the notification indicating that the physical object linked to the AR content is no longer present or has moved to a new location in the physical space.
7. (canceled)
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting includes: analyzing text of the AR content; determining that the text is associated with a classification of the physical object; and linking the classification of the physical object with the AR content.
9. An augmented reality (AR) system for managing AR content in an AR environment, the AR system comprising: an AR collaborative service executable by at least one server; and a client AR application executable by a first computing device or a second computing device, the client AR application configured to communicate with the AR collaborative service via one or more application programming interfaces (APIs), the AR collaborative service or the client AR application configured to store a scene of an AR environment during an AR session, including: obtain first image data from a camera associated with the first computing device; receiving an indication that AR content has been added by a user; marking a location of the AR content in a coordinate space of the AR environment; detect a physical object from the first image data that is referenced by or located proximate to the AR content; and link the physical object with the AR content in the coordinate space, the AR collaborative service or the client AR application configured to attempt to localize the AR environment on the second computing device during a subsequent AR session, including: obtain second image data from a camera associated with the second computing device; determine that the second image data corresponds to a physical space associated with the first image data; detect that the physical object is not present or has moved to a new location in the second image data; and initiate an action to manage the AR content associated with the physical object.
10. The AR system of claim 9, wherein the AR collaborative service or the client AR application is configured to detect a classification of the physical object using an object classification algorithm, wherein the classification is stored with the location of the AR content in the coordinate space.
11. The AR system of claim 10, wherein the object classification algorithm is configured to assign a semantic label to the physical object that corresponds to the detected classification, where the AR content is linked to the semantic label.
12. The AR system of claim 9, wherein the client AR application is configured to cause the AR content not to be rendered on the second computing device during the subsequent AR session in response to the physical object not being detected in the second image data.
13. The AR system of claim 9, wherein the AR collaborative service or the client AR application is configured to move the AR content from the marked location to a location that corresponds to the new position of the physical object in the second image data during the subsequent AR session.
14. The AR system of claim 9, wherein the AR collaborative service or the client AR application is configured to transmit, via an API, a notification to a user that added the AR content, the notification indicating that the physical object linked to the AR content is no longer present or has moved to a new location in the physical space.
15. The AR system of claim 9, wherein the AR collaborative service or the client AR application is configured to analyze text of the AR content, and determine that the text is associated with a classification of the physical object, wherein the classification is linked with the AR content.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor are configured to manage augmented reality (AR) content in an AR environment, the executable instructions including instructions that cause the at least one processor to: store a scene of an AR environment captured by a first computing device during an AR session, including: obtain first image data from a camera associated with the first computing device; receiving an indication that AR content has been added by a user; marking a location of the AR content in a coordinate space of the AR environment; detect a physical object that is referenced by or located proximate to the AR content from the first image data; and store the location of the AR content with a link to a classification of the physical object in an AR scene storage; and attempt to localize the AR environment on a second computing device during a subsequent AR session, including: obtain second image data from a camera associated with the second computing device; determine that the second image data corresponds to a physical space associated with the first image data; detect that the physical object is not present or has moved to a new location in the second image data; and initiate an action to manage the AR content associated with the physical object.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the initiate the action includes instructions to not render the AR content on the second computing device during the subsequent AR session in response to the physical object not being detected in the second image data.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the initiate the action includes instructions to move the AR content from the marked location to a location that corresponds to the new position of the physical object in the second image data during the subsequent AR session.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the initiate the action includes instructions to transmit, via an application programming interface (API), a user that added, the notification indicating that the physical object linked to the AR content is no longer present or has moved to a new location in the physical space.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the classification of the physical object is detected using an object classification algorithm.
</claims>
</document>
