<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/29,G06F16/487,H04L12/58,H04L29/08,H04W4/021,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SNAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, XUEYIN
JAHANGIRI, MEHRDAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65410804
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Visitation tracking system
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to a system to facilitate the identification of geo-cells, and the distribution of media content. A visitation tracking system is configured to retrieve location data from a client device, identify a geo-cell from among a set of geo-cells based on the location data, access a database that comprises media content associated with one or more physical location within the geo-cell, ranking a first media content among the media content, and loading the first media content at the client device based on the ranking, according to certain example embodiments.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: accessing location data at a client device responsive to a request from the client device, the location data identifying one or more physical locations of the client device; identifying a geo-cell from among a plurality of geo-cells based on the location data, the geo-cell associated with a plurality of location identifiers that correspond with a plurality of locations that include location attributes; ranking a location from among the plurality of locations associated with the geo-fence based on the location attributes of the location; selecting the location from among the plurality of locations based on the ranking of the location among the plurality of locations associated with the geo-fence, the location associated with media content; and causing display of a notification that includes the media content at the client device.
2. (canceled)
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the causing display of the notification that includes the media content at the client device further comprises: presenting an ephemeral message that includes a presentation of the media content at the client device.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the location attributes include business hours, and the ranking each location among the plurality of locations based on the location attributes further comprises: determining a current time; and ranking each location among the plurality of locations based on the business hours of each location among the plurality of locations.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the location attributes include a user rating, and the ranking each location among the plurality of locations is based on the user rating.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: receiving an input that selects the media content from the notification at the client device; and generating a message that includes the media content in response to the input.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the causing display of the notification that includes the media content at the client device includes: loading the media content to a memory location of the client device.
8. A system comprising: a memory; and at least one hardware processor coupled to the memory and comprising instructions that causes the system to perform operations comprising: accessing location data at a client device responsive to a request from the client device, the location data identifying one or more physical locations of the client device; identifying a geo-cell from among a plurality of geo-cells based on the location data, the geo-cell associated with a plurality of location identifiers that correspond with a plurality of locations that include location attributes; ranking a location from among the plurality of locations associated with the geo-fence based on the location attributes of the location; selecting the location from among the plurality of locations based on the ranking of the location among the plurality of locations associated with the geo-fence, the location associated with media content; and causing display of a notification that includes the media content at the client device.
9. (canceled)
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the causing display of the notification that includes the media content at the client device further comprises: presenting an ephemeral message that includes a presentation of the media content at the client device.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the location attributes include business hours, and the ranking each location among the plurality of locations based on the location attributes further comprises: determining a current time; and ranking each location among the plurality of locations based on the business hours of each location among the plurality of locations.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the location attributes include a user rating, and the ranking each location among the plurality of locations is based on the user rating.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving an input that selects the media content from the notification at the client device; and generating a message that includes the media content in response to the input.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the causing display of the notification that includes the media content at the client device includes: loading the media content to a memory location of the client device.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a machine, cause the machine to perform operations including: accessing location data at a client device responsive to a request from the client device, the location data identifying one or more physical locations of the client device; identifying a geo-cell from among a plurality of geo-cells based on the location data, the geo-cell associated with a plurality of location identifiers that correspond with a plurality of locations that include location attributes; ranking a location from among the plurality of locations associated with the geo-fence based on the location attributes of the location; selecting the location from among the plurality of locations based on the ranking of the location among the plurality of locations associated with the geo-fence, the location associated with media content; and causing display of a notification that includes the media content at the client device.
16. (canceled)
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the causing display of the notification that includes the media content at the client device further comprises: presenting an ephemeral message that includes a presentation of the media content at the client device.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the location attributes include business hours, and the ranking each location among the plurality of locations based on the location attributes further comprises: determining a current time; and ranking each location among the plurality of locations based on the business hours of each location among the plurality of locations.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the location attributes include a user rating, and the ranking each location among the plurality of locations is based on the user rating.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving an input that selects the media content from the notification at the client device; and generating a message that includes the media content in response to the input.
</claims>
</document>
