<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/36,G06F3/0482,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
Thangam, Sathiyanarayanan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73047186
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING BASED TEST CASE PREDICTION AND AUTOMATION LEVERAGING THE HTML DOCUMENT OBJECT MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described for predicting test scenarios and generating test case documents and/or automation scripts using machine-learning algorithms. For example, input may be received representing a web page, and an HTML Document Object Model (DOM) of the web page may be analyzed. From the DOM, a plurality of HTML elements may be extracted and processed by a machine-learning algorithm. Based on the processed plurality of HTML elements, a plurality of predictions for test case scenarios may be generated, and converted into a set of human-readable instructions, such as a test case document, and/or a set of machine-readable instructions, such as an automation script. In some instances, a user selection of at least one predicted test scenario from a displayed list of one or more predicted test scenarios is received and corresponding human-readable instructions and/or machine-readable instructions are generated for the selected scenario(s).
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving an input representing a web page, the page comprising a plurality of HTML elements; analyzing an HTML Document Object Model (DOM) of the web page; extracting from the DOM the plurality of HTML elements; processing the extracted plurality of HTML elements utilizing a machine learning algorithm; generating, based on the processing the extracted plurality of HTML elements, at least one prediction for at least one test case scenario from the processed HTML elements; and converting the at least one prediction into: a set of human-readable instructions, and a set of machine-readable instructions.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein converting the prediction into a set of human-readable instructions comprises generating at least one test case document.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the generating at least one test case document comprises: generating a list of one or more test case scenarios; receiving user input selecting at least one of the one or more listed test case scenarios; and generating the test case document based on the at least one selected test case scenario
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein converting the prediction into a set of machine-readable instructions comprises generating at least one automation script
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the generating at least one automation script comprises generating an automation script for at least one selected test case scenario generated in a test case document.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the generating at least one automation script comprises: generating a list of one or more test case scenarios; receiving user input selecting at least one of the one or more listed test case scenarios; generating at least one test case document based on the at least one selected test case scenario; and generating the at least one automation script based on the at least one test case document.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of HTML elements comprise a plurality of mechanisms for receiving user input.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein generating the prediction comprises determining one or more user actions that may be taken with the one or more user input mechanisms.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the input comprises a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) or an application name.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: the plurality of HTML elements comprises at least two containers, each of the containers comprising at least one mechanism for receiving user input; and analyzing the HTML DOM comprises: analyzing one or more first-level relationships between HTML elements in a first container and analyzing one or more second-level relationships between the first container and a second container.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the set of human-readable instructions comprises: at least one step corresponding to elements within the first container; and at least one additional step corresponding to elements within the second container.
12. A computing system comprising: one or more memories; one or more processors coupled to the one or more memories; and one or more non-transitory computer readable storage media storing instructions that, when executed, cause the one or more processors to perform operations for predicting test cases for a web page, the operations comprising: receiving an input representing the web page, the page comprising a plurality of HTML elements; analyzing an HTML Document Object Model (DOM) of the web page; extracting from the DOM the plurality of HTML elements; processing the extracted plurality of HTML elements utilizing a machine learning algorithm; generating, based on the processing the extracted plurality of HTML elements, at least one prediction for at least one test case scenario from the processed HTML elements; and converting the at least one prediction into: a set of human-readable instructions, and a set of machine-readable instructions.
13. The computing system of claim 12, wherein the at least one prediction comprises a plurality of test case scenarios.
14. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: generating a list of the plurality of test case scenarios; receiving a user selection of at least one of the plurality of test case scenarios; and responsive to receiving the user selection, converting the selected at least one of the plurality of test case scenarios into at least one set of human-readable instructions, the at least one set of human-readable instructions comprising a test case document.
15. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: generating a list of the plurality of test case scenarios, wherein the list comprises at least one predicted validation step; receiving a user selection of at least one of the plurality of test case scenarios comprising a predicted validation step; responsive to receiving the user selection, converting the selected at least one of the plurality of test case scenarios into at least one set of machine-readable instructions; using the machine-readable instructions, performing validation to test at least one function of the web page, and generating a validation result indicating whether the at least one function of the web page is functioning properly.
16. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the computing system further comprises a display device, and wherein operations further comprise: presenting a display to a user comprising a list of the plurality of test case scenarios; receiving a user selection of at least one of the presented plurality of test case scenarios; and responsive to receiving the user selection, converting the selected at least one test case scenario into a set of human-readable instructions comprising a test case document and a set of machine-readable instructions comprising an automation script.
17. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the display is presented in at least one of: a chatbot window, a web application, a standalone desktop application, or a REST API endpoint.
18. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving an input representing a web page, the page comprising a plurality of HTML elements; analyzing an HTML Document Object Model (DOM) of the web page; extracting from the DOM the plurality of HTML elements; processing the extracted plurality of HTML elements utilizing a machine learning algorithm; generating, based on the processing the extracted plurality of HTML elements, a plurality of predictions for test case scenarios from the processed HTML elements; receiving a user selection of at least one of the plurality of predictions; and converting the at least one selected prediction into: a set of human-readable instructions comprising a test case document, and a set of machine-readable instructions comprising an automation script.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, further comprising: receiving user input specifying a validation point for addition to the at least one selected prediction, and adding the specified validation point to the at least one selected prediction.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, further comprising: presenting to a user a validation point proposed for addition to the at least one selected prediction, wherein the validation point is presented at least in part based on a determination that a similar validation point was previously added by a second user.
</claims>
</document>
