<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0205,A61B5/11,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G07C5/08,G10L25/03,G10L25/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAIDU ON-LINE NETWORK TECHNOLOGY (BEIJING) COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, YOUHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65464687
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method, Apparatus and Device for Identifying Passenger State in Unmanned Vehicle, and Storage Medium
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present application provide a method, an apparatus, and a device for identifying a passenger state in an unmanned vehicle, and a storage medium. The method comprises: obtaining monitoring data of different dimensions in a process where the passenger takes the unmanned vehicle; performing feature extraction on the monitoring data of the different dimensions and forming feature data of different dimensions; and identifying the passenger state according to the feature data of the different dimensions. By obtaining the monitoring data of various dimensions in the process where the passenger takes the unmanned vehicle to identify the passenger state, it is possible to omnidirectionally monitor the personal is safety and property safety of the passengers, and effectively protect the passenger taking the unmanned vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for identifying a passenger state in an unmanned vehicle, comprising: obtaining monitoring data of different dimensions in a process where a passenger takes the unmanned vehicle; performing feature extraction on the monitoring data of different dimensions and forming feature data of different dimensions; and identifying the passenger state according to the feature data of different dimensions.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the obtaining monitoring data of different dimensions in a process where the passenger takes the unmanned vehicle comprises: collecting in real time, by different sensors provided in the unmanned vehicle, monitoring data of corresponding dimensions in the process where the passenger takes the unmanned vehicle.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the sensors comprise at least: an internal camera, a microphone, a vital sign sensor, and a collision sensor.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the collecting in real time, by different sensors provided in the unmanned vehicle, monitoring data of corresponding dimensions in the process where the passenger takes the unmanned vehicle, comprises: collecting, by the internal camera, expression monitoring data and limb movement monitoring data in the process where the passenger takes the unmanned vehicle; collecting, by the microphone, sound monitoring data in the process where the passenger takes the unmanned vehicle; collecting, by the vital sign sensor, vital sign monitoring data in the process where the passenger takes the unmanned vehicle; and collecting, by the collision sensor, collision data of colliding a vehicle body or a seat in the process where the passenger takes the unmanned vehicle.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the performing feature extraction on the monitoring data of different dimensions and forming feature data of different dimensions comprises: performing the feature extraction on the monitoring data of each dimension by means of a corresponding feature extraction algorithm and forming feature data of a corresponding dimension.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the identifying the passenger state according to the feature data of different dimensions comprises: inputting feature data of each dimension into a corresponding first identification is algorithm, and outputting passenger state probability data corresponding to the feature data of each dimension; obtaining a weight value corresponding to the passenger state probability data of each dimension; performing a weighted summation calculation on passenger state probability data of respective dimensions to obtain general passenger state probability data; and determining the passenger state according to the general passenger state probability data and a preset threshold.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the identifying the passenger state according to the feature data of different dimensions comprises: inputting the feature data of different dimensions into a second identification algorithm, and identifying the passenger state by means of the second identification algorithm; and outputting the passenger state.
8. An apparatus for identifying a passenger state in an unmanned vehicle, comprising: a processor and a computer-readable medium for storing program codes, which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: obtain monitoring data of different dimensions in a process where a passenger takes the unmanned vehicle; perform feature extraction on the monitoring data of different dimensions and form feature data of different dimensions; identify the passenger state according to the feature data of different dimensions.
9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the program codes further cause the processor to: collect in real time, by different sensors provided in the unmanned vehicle, monitoring data of corresponding dimensions in the process where the passenger takes the unmanned vehicle. S
10. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the sensors comprise at least: an internal camera, a microphone, a vital sign sensor, a collision sensor.
11. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the program codes further cause the processor to: collect, by the internal camera, expression monitoring data and limb movement monitoring data in the process where the passenger takes the unmanned vehicle; collect, by the microphone, sound monitoring data in the process where the passenger takes the unmanned vehicle; collect, by the vital sign sensor, vital sign monitoring data in the process where the passenger takes the unmanned vehicle; and collect, by the collision sensor, collision data of colliding a vehicle body or a seat in the process where the passenger takes the unmanned vehicle.
12. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the program codes further cause the processor to: perform the feature extraction on the monitoring data of each dimension by means of a corresponding feature extraction algorithm and form feature data of a corresponding dimension.
13. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the program codes further cause the processor to: input feature data of each dimension into a corresponding first identification algorithm, and output passenger state probability data corresponding to the feature data of each dimension; obtain a weight value corresponding to the passenger state probability data of each dimension; perform a weighted summation calculation on passenger state probability data of respective dimensions to obtain general passenger state probability data; and determine the passenger state according to the general passenger state probability data and a preset threshold.
14. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the program codes further cause the processor to: input the feature data of different dimensions into a second identification algorithm, and identify the passenger state by means of the second identification algorithm; and output the passenger state.
15. A terminal device, comprising: one or more processors; a storage apparatus, configured to store one or more programs; a data collecting apparatus, configured to collect monitoring data of different dimensions; wherein the one or more programs, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to implement the method according to claim 1.
16. A computer readable storage medium, having stored thereon a computer program, wherein the program is executed by a processor to implement the steps of: obtaining monitoring data of different dimensions in a process where a passenger takes the unmanned vehicle; performing feature extraction on the monitoring data of different dimensions and forming feature data of different dimensions; and identifying the passenger state according to the feature data of different dimensions.
</claims>
</document>
