<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,G06Q20/32,G06Q30/04,G06Q30/06,H04W4/35,H04W4/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUPTA, AVIRAL
KHANNA, HEMAN
LAISHRAM, ROHAN
MADABHUSHI, GOPI KRISHNA
MADAN, ARJITA
Chiang, Edward
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61157309
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Symmetric Discovery Over Audio
</title>

<abstract>
A first computing device broadcasts a first audio token comprising the first user computing device identifier over two or more audio frequency channels at specified intervals and listens for audio inputs via the two or more audio frequency channels at the specified intervals. The first computing device receives a second audio token generated by a second computing device and communicates the received second audio token to the one or more computing devices. The second computing device receives the first audio token generated by the first computing device and communicates the received first audio token to the one or more computing devices. The one or more computing devices receive the first and second audio tokens and pair the first computing device and the second computing device and facilitate a transfer of data between the first computing device and the second computing device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A computing system configured to pair computing devices using audio communication channels, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory computer readable media that collectively store instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: broadcasting, by a first computing device, a first audio token comprising a first computing device identifier over one or more audio frequency channels at one or more specified intervals, wherein the first computing device simultaneously broadcasts the first audio token while listening for one or more additional tokens; activating, by the first computing device, a first microphone component to listen for audio inputs via the one or more audio frequency channels at the one or more specified intervals; receiving, by the first computing device, a second audio token from a second computing device via the first microphone component; and initiating, by the first computing device, a transfer of data with the second computing device based at least in part on the second audio token.
22. The computing system of claim 21, wherein the operations further comprise: communicating, by the first computing device, the second audio token to one or more additional computing devices, wherein the one or more additional computing devices transfer the data to the second computing device.
23. The computing system of claim 22, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, by the first computing device, a first input requesting to transfer the data; generating, by the first computing device, a data transfer request comprising a request identifier and the data; and transmitting, by the first computing device, the first computing device identifier and the data transfer request to the one or more additional computing devices.
24. The computing system of claim 23, wherein the operations further comprise: identifying, by the one or more additional computing devices, the first computing device, the second computing device, and the request identifier based on the received first and second audio tokens; and transferring, by the one or more additional computing devices, the data in accordance with the data transfer request to the second computing device.
25. The computing system of claim 21, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to receiving the second audio token from the second computing device, broadcasting by the first computing device, the second audio token over multiple available frequencies within multiple available frequency channels.
26. The computing system of claim 21, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to receiving the second audio token from the second computing device, increasing by the first computing device, at least one of the one or more specified intervals for listening for audio inputs.
27. The computing system of claim 21, wherein broadcasting the first audio token over two or more audio frequency channels at specified intervals comprises cycling through the two or more audio frequency channels based on a predetermined audio channel hopping schedule.
28. The computing system of claim 21, wherein broadcasting the first audio token over two or more audio frequency channels at specified intervals comprises cycling through the two or more audio frequency channels at random.
29. The computing system of claim 21, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, by the second computing device, a second input indicating a request to receive the data; broadcasting, by the second computing device, the second audio token comprising a second computing device identifier over at least two audio frequency channels at predetermined intervals; listening, by the second computing device, for audio inputs via the at least two audio frequency channels at the predetermined intervals; receiving, by the second computing device, the first audio token from the first computing device; and communicating, by the second computing device, the first audio token to one or more additional computing devices.
30. The computing system of claim 21, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, by the second computing device, a second input requesting to receive the data; broadcasting, by the second computing device, the second audio token comprising a second computing device identifier over at least two audio frequency channels at predetermined intervals; activating, by the second computing device, a second microphone component to listen for audio inputs via the at least two audio frequency channels at the predetermined intervals; receiving, by the second computing device, the first audio token from the first computing device via the second microphone component; communicating, by the second computing device, the first audio token to one or more additional computing devices; and receiving, by the second computing device, the data from the one or more additional computing devices.
31. The computing system of claim 30, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to receiving the first audio token from the first computing device, decreasing by the second computing device, the predetermined intervals at which the second computing device broadcasts the second audio token.
32. The computing system of claim 30, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to receiving the first audio token from the first computing device, adding by the second computing device, additional audio frequency channels over which the second computing device broadcasts the second audio token while continuing to broadcast the second audio token via the at least two audio frequency channels.
33. The computing system of claim 30, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to receiving the first audio token from the first computing device, deactivating by the second computing device, the second microphone component to cease listening for audio tokens.
34. The computing system of claim 30, wherein at least one of the first audio token and the second audio token is broadcasted via ultrasound.
35. A computer-implemented method to pair computing devices via audio communication channels, comprising: receiving, by one or more processors from a merchant computing device, transaction details; receiving, by the one or more processors from a user computing device, a merchant audio token associated with the merchant computing device, the merchant audio token received by the user computing device from the merchant computing device via one or more audio frequency channels; receiving, by the one or more processors from the merchant computing device subsequent to receiving the transaction details, a user audio token associated with the user computing device, the user audio token received by the merchant computing device from the user computing device via the one or more audio frequency channels; associating, by the one or more processors, the transaction details previously received from the merchant computing device with the user computing device based at least in part on the merchant audio token received from the user computing device; and initiating, by the one or more processors, one or more payment transactions in association with the transaction details.
36. The computer-implemented method of claim 35, further comprising: receiving, by the one or more processors from the user computing device, a data transfer request; identifying, by the one or more processors, the user computing device based at least in part on the user audio token received from the merchant computing device; identifying, by the one or more processors, the merchant computing device based at least in part on the merchant audio token received from the user computing device; transferring, by the one or more processors, data associated with the data transfer request to the merchant computing device.
37. One or more non-transitory computer readable media that collectively store instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: broadcasting, by a first computing device, a first audio token comprising a first computing device identifier over one or more audio frequency channels at one or more specified intervals, wherein the first computing device simultaneously broadcasts the first audio token while listening for one or more additional tokens; activating, by the first computing device, a first microphone component to listen for audio inputs via the one or more audio frequency channels at the one or more specified intervals; receiving, by the first computing device, a second audio token from a second computing device via the first microphone component; and initiating, by the first computing device, a transfer of data with the second computing device based at least in part on the second audio token.
38. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 37, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to receiving the second audio token from the second computing device, broadcasting by the first computing device, the second audio token over multiple available frequencies within multiple available frequency channels.
39. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 37, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to receiving the second audio token from the second computing device, increasing by the first computing device, at least one of the one or more specified intervals for listening for audio inputs.
40. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 37, wherein broadcasting the first audio token over two or more audio frequency channels at specified intervals comprises cycling through the two or more audio frequency channels based on a predetermined audio channel hopping schedule.
</claims>
</document>
