<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/71,G01N21/88,G01N21/95,H01J37/32,H01L21/3065,H01L21/66
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOKYO ELECTRON
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN YAN
TIAN, XINKANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73456137
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Optical Diagnostics of Semiconductor Process Using Hyperspectral Imaging
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are embodiments of an improved apparatus and system, and associated methods for optically diagnosing a semiconductor manufacturing process. A hyperspectral imaging system is used to acquire spectrally-resolved images of emissions from the plasma, in a plasma processing system. Acquired hyperspectral images may be used to determine the chemical composition of the plasma and the plasma process endpoint. Alternatively, a hyperspectral imaging system is used to acquire spectrally-resolved images of a substrate before, during, or after processing, to determine properties of the substrate or layers and features formed on the substrate, including whether a process endpoint has been reached; or before or after processing, for inspecting the substrate condition.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for diagnosing a plasma process step in a plasma processing system, comprising: igniting a plasma in a plasma processing chamber of the plasma processing system; collecting a plasma optical emission signal through a window mounted in a wall of the plasma processing chamber, and through collecting optics; directing the plasma optical emission signal from the collecting optics into a wavelength tunable filter for tunably selecting a wavelength of the collected plasma optical emission signal; detecting the wavelength-filtered plasma optical emission signal using an array detector; and storing and processing images acquired by the array detector in a controller, wherein the controller is configured for controlling at least the wavelength tunable filter and the array detector.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: selectively tuning a passband wavelength of the wavelength tunable filter, across a range or multiple overlapping or non-overlapping ranges of wavelengths in the deep ultraviolet (DUV), ultraviolet (UV), visible (VIS), and infrared (IR) portions of the optical spectrum.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: forming an image cube, the image cube consisted of a set of images detected by the array detector, each image in the set being acquired at a wavelength defined by an instantaneous passband wavelength to which the wavelength tunable filter is tuned.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: determining an endpoint of the plasma process step from a sequence of plasma optical emission spectra formed from a sequence of image cubes acquired during the plasma process step.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising: determining a relative concentration of at least one chemical constituent of the plasma from at least one plasma optical emission spectrum formed from at least one image cube.
6. A method for measuring at least one property of at least one layer or structure formed on a substrate disposed in a semiconductor processing system, comprising: initiating a process step in the semiconductor processing system; illuminating the substrate with an illumination beam, the portion of the illumination beam reflected and diffracted from the substrate forming a diffracted optical signal; collecting the diffracted optical signal through a window mounted in a wall of the semiconductor processing system, and through collecting optics; tunably selecting a wavelength of either the illumination beam or the diffracted optical signal using a wavelength tunable filter disposed in either the illumination beam or the diffracted optical signal, respectively, to form a wavelength-filtered diffracted optical signal; detecting the wavelength-filtered diffracted optical signal using an array detector; and storing and processing images acquired by the array detector in a controller, wherein the controller is configured for controlling at least the wavelength tunable filter and the array detector.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: selectively tuning a passband wavelength of the wavelength tunable filter, across a range or multiple overlapping or non-overlapping ranges of wavelengths in the deep ultraviolet (DUV), ultraviolet (UV), visible (VIS), and infrared (IR) portions of the optical spectrum.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: forming an image cube, the image cube consisted of a set of images detected by the array detector, each image in the set being acquired at a wavelength defined by an instantaneous passband wavelength to which the wavelength tunable filter is tuned.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: determining at least one property of a layer or structure formed on the substrate from at least one diffracted optical spectrum derived from at least one image cube.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the at least one property of a layer or structure on the substrate is a profile top critical dimension (CD), a profile bottom critical dimension (CD), a profile middle critical dimension (CD), a profile sidewall angle, a layer thickness, a layer optical property, or a remaining thickness of a layer being etched.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising: determining an endpoint of the process step from a sequence of diffracted optical spectra derived from a sequence of image cubes acquired during the process step.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising: determining a spatial correspondence of locations on the substrate and pixel locations in images of at least one selected image cube; and deriving at least one diffracted optical spectrum from the at least one selected image cube.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the at least one diffracted optical spectrum is derived from a single selected pixel location across all images or a selected subset of images in the at least one selected image cube.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the at least one diffracted optical spectrum is derived from at least one selected region of pixel locations across all images or a selected subset of images in the at least one selected image cube.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the at least one diffracted optical spectrum is derived from all pixel locations across all images or a selected subset of images in the at least one selected image cube.
16. The method of claim 8, wherein at least two diffracted optical spectra are derived from a single pixel location across all images or a selected subset of images in at least two image cubes, and wherein the single pixel location is selected such that a rate of change of at least one light intensity between two derived diffracted optical spectra exceeds a pre-selected threshold rate of change of light intensity.
17. The method of claim 8, wherein at least two diffracted optical spectra are derived from a region of pixel locations across all images or a selected subset of images in at least two image cubes, and wherein the region of pixel locations is selected such that a rate of change of at least one light intensity between two derived diffracted optical spectra exceeds a pre-selected threshold rate of change of light intensity.
18. A method for inspecting a substrate in a substrate inspection system, comprising: placing the substrate on a stage in the substrate inspection system; illuminating the substrate with an illumination light source; collecting an optical signal caused by illuminating the substrate, through collecting optics; directing the collected optical signal from the collecting optics into a wavelength tunable filter for tunably selecting a wavelength of the collected optical signal; detecting the wavelength-filtered signal using an array detector; and storing and processing images acquired by the array detector in a controller, wherein the controller is configured for controlling at least the wavelength tunable filter and the array detector.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: selectively tuning a passband wavelength of the wavelength tunable filter, across a range or multiple overlapping or non-overlapping ranges of wavelengths in the deep ultraviolet (DUV), ultraviolet (UV), visible (VIS), and infrared (IR) portions of the optical spectrum.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: forming an image cube, the image cube consisted of a set of images detected by the array detector, each image in the set being acquired at a wavelength defined by an instantaneous passband wavelength to which the wavelength tunable filter is tuned.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising: determining at least one property of the substrate, or of a layer or structure formed on the substrate from at least one optical spectrum derived from at least one image cube.
22. The method of claim 20, further comprising: determining a spatial correspondence of locations on the substrate and pixel locations in images of at least one selected image cube; and determining at least one optical spectrum from the at least one selected image cube.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the at least one optical spectrum is derived from a single selected pixel location across all images or a selected subset of images in the at least one selected image cube.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein the at least one optical spectrum is derived from at least one selected region of pixel locations across all images or a selected subset of images in the at least one selected image cube.
25. The method of claim 22, wherein the at least one optical spectrum is derived from all pixel locations across all images or a selected subset of images in the at least one selected image cube.
</claims>
</document>
