<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01H9/00,G01M3/24,G01N29/44,G01N29/46,G01W1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BP EXPLORATION OPERATING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LANGNES, TOMMY
THIRUVENKATANATHAN, PRADYUMNA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63878645
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Detecting Events Using Acoustic Frequency Domain Features
</title>

<abstract>
A system for processing acoustic data to identify an event includes a receiver unit including a processor and a memory. The receiver unit is configured to receive a signal from a sensor disposed along a sensor path or across a sensor area. A processing application is stored in the memory. The processing application, when executed on the processor, configures the processor to: receive the signal from the sensor, where the signal includes an indication of an acoustic signal received at one or more lengths along the sensor path or across a portion of the sensor area and the signal is indicative of the acoustic signal across a frequency spectrum; determine a plurality of frequency domain features of the signal across the frequency spectrum; and generate an output comprising the plurality of frequency domain features.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for processing acoustic data to identify an event, the system comprising: a receiver unit comprising a processor and a memory, wherein the receiver unit is configured to receive a signal from a sensor disposed along a sensor path or across a sensor area, wherein a processing application is stored in the memory, and wherein the processing application, when executed on the processor, configures the processor to: receive the signal from the sensor, wherein the signal comprises an indication of an acoustic signal received at one or more lengths along the sensor path or across a portion of the sensor area, wherein the signal is indicative of the acoustic signal across a frequency spectrum; determine a plurality of frequency domain features of the signal across the frequency spectrum, wherein each frequency domain feature of the plurality of frequency domain features is indicative of the acoustic signal across a frequency spectrum; identify a type and occurrence of an event using the plurality of frequency domain features; and generate an output comprising the plurality of frequency domain features.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the receiver unit is configured to receive the signal from the sensor disposed along the sensor path or the sensor area provided that the sensor path or sensor area does not extend through a wellbore.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising: the sensor, wherein the sensor comprises a fiber optic cable disposed along the sensor path; and an optical generator coupled to the fiber optic cable, wherein the optical generator is configured to generate a light beam and pass the light beam into the fiber optic cable.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral centroid, and wherein the spectral centroid is indicative of a center of mass of the frequency spectrum of the acoustic signal.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral spread, wherein the spectral spread is indicative of an energy distribution of the acoustic signal around a spectral centroid.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral roll-off, wherein the spectral roll-off is indicative of a frequency band comprising a predetermined percentage of a magnitude of signal strengths across the frequency spectrum.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral skewness, wherein the spectral skewness is indicative of a symmetry of a distribution of spectral magnitude values around an arithmetic mean of the spectral magnitude values.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise an RMS band energy, wherein the RMS band energy is a measure of signal energy of the signal in predetermined frequency bands across the frequency spectrum, and wherein the signal energy in each frequency band of the predetermined frequency bands is a normalized energy based on a total RMS energy across the frequency spectrum, and wherein the signal energy in each frequency band of the predetermined frequency bands is a normalized energy based on a total RMS energy across the frequency spectrum.
9. (canceled)
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a total RMS energy, wherein the total RMS energy comprises a root mean square of a waveform of the signal calculated in the time domain.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral flatness, wherein the spectral flatness is a ratio of a geometric mean to an arithmetic mean of an energy spectrum value of the signal.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral slope, wherein the spectral slope comprises a linear approximation of a shape of the spectrum of the signal.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral kurtosis, wherein the spectral kurtosis comprises an indication of a flatness of the spectrum around a mean of the spectrum in the signal.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral flux, wherein the spectral flux is a measure of a change in spectral magnitude summed across at least a portion of frequencies present in the signal between successive determinations of the frequency domain features.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral autocorrelation function, wherein the spectral autocorrelation function is indicative of a lag of the signal that maximizes the correlation between the signal and a shifted signal.
16. (canceled)
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the signal comprises a first data size, wherein the output comprises a second data size, and wherein the first data size is greater than the second data size.
18. A system for detecting an event using acoustic data, the system comprising: a processor unit comprising a processor and a memory, wherein the processor unit is adapted for signal communication with a receiver, and wherein the memory comprises an analysis application, that when executed on the processor, configures the processor to: receive, from the receiver, a signal comprising a plurality of frequency domain features, wherein the frequency domain features are indicative of an acoustic signal, and wherein each frequency domain feature of the plurality of frequency domain features is indicative of the acoustic signal across a frequency spectrum; compare the plurality of frequency domain features with one or more event signatures, wherein the one or more event signatures comprise thresholds or ranges for each of the plurality of frequency domain features; determine that the plurality of frequency domain features match at least one event signature of the one or more event signatures; identify a type of event for the at least one event signature based on the determination that the plurality of frequency domain features match the at least one event signature; determine the occurrence of the at least one event based on the determination that the plurality of frequency domain features match the at least one event signature; and generate an output of the occurrence of the at least one event based on the determination.
19. (canceled)
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the event signatures comprise at least one of a rail car signature, a traffic signature, a security signature, a rotational or vibrational equipment signature, a building signature.
21. The system of claim 18, wherein the acoustic signal is generated by at least one of a mechanical source, a biological source, a fluid turbulence source, a fluid leak source, a weather source, or an object collision.
22. (canceled)
23. (canceled)
24. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing application, when executed on the processor, further configures the processor to: generate an output comprising the plurality of frequency domain features; compare the plurality of frequency domain features with an event signature; identify the type of the event for the at least one event signature based on the determination that the plurality of frequency domain features match the at least one event signature; and determine the presence of the event corresponding to the event signature based on determining that the plurality of frequency domain features match the event signature.
25. (canceled)
26. (canceled)
27. (canceled)
28. A method for detecting an event using acoustic data, the method comprising: receiving a signal comprising a plurality of frequency domain features, wherein the frequency domain features are indicative of an acoustic signal, and wherein each frequency domain feature of the plurality of frequency domain features is indicative of the acoustic signal across a frequency spectrum; comparing the plurality of frequency domain features with one or more event signatures, wherein the one or more event signatures comprise thresholds or ranges for each of the plurality of frequency domain features; determining that the plurality of frequency domain features match at least one event signature of the one or more event signatures; identifying a type of event for the at least one event signature based on the determination that the plurality of frequency domain features match the at least one event signature; determining the occurrence of the at least one event based on the determination that the plurality of frequency domain features match the at least one event signature; and generating an output of the occurrence of the at least one event based on the determination.
29. The method of claim 28, further comprising: obtaining a sample data set, wherein the sample data set is a sample of the acoustic signal originating from an acoustic sensor; and determining the plurality of frequency domain features using the sample data set.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the sample data set is the sample of the acoustic signal originating from the acoustic sensor excluding an acoustic sensor located inside a wellbore.
31. The method of claim 28, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise at least two of: a spectral centroid, a spectral spread, a spectral roll-off, a spectral skewness, an RMS band energy, a total RMS energy, a spectral flatness, a spectral slope, a spectral kurtosis, a spectral flux, or a spectral autocorrelation function.
</claims>
</document>
