<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/30,G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROY SUBHOJIT
EDA, SASIKANTH
JAIN, ABHISHEK
GHUGE, DEEPAK
EDA, MANOJKIRAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71072744
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SELECTIVE IMAGE COMPRESSION OF AN IMAGE STORED ON A DEVICE BASED ON USER PREFERENCES
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method according to one embodiment includes classifying an image stored on a device as a type of image. A user's access pattern of other images also classified as the type of image is analyzed. The method further includes analyzing at least one sharing medium that the user has previously used to share the image and/or other images. The analyzing the at least one medium is at least in part based on the classified type of the image. A previously recorded delete pattern of the user is analyzed. The analyzing the previously recorded delete pattern of the user is at least in part based on the classified type of the image. Based on the classified type of the image and/or based on results of the analyses, the image is categorized to one of a plurality of image compression categories. Each category corresponds to a degree of image compression.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: classifying an image stored on a device as a type of image; analyzing a user's access pattern of other images also classified as the type of image; analyzing at least one sharing medium that the user has previously used to share the image and/or other images, wherein the analyzing the at least one medium is at least in part based on the classified type of the image; analyzing a previously recorded delete pattern of the user, wherein the analyzing the previously recorded delete pattern of the user is at least in part based on the classified type of the image; and based on the classified type of the image and/or based on results of the analyses, categorizing the image to one of a plurality of image compression categories, each category corresponding to a degree of image compression.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the type of the image is selected from the group consisting of: nature, human, generic, and special.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: performing image compression of the image in accordance with the image compression category to which the image was categorized.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the degree of image compression of the image is no image compression in response to the image being categorized to a low image compression category.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the degree of image compression of the image is selective image compression in response to the image being categorized to a medium image compression category, wherein performing image compression of the image in accordance with selective image compression includes: identifying focused and non-focused content within the image; in response to determining that a storage consumption of the device is greater than a first predetermined threshold, selectively compressing content of the image that is both non-focused and that is not of interest; in response to determining that a storage consumption of the device subsequent selectively compressing content of the image that is both non-focused and that is not of interest, is greater than a second predetermined threshold, selectively compressing content of the image that is both focused and that is not of interest; and in response to determining that a storage consumption of the device subsequent selectively compressing content of the image that is both focused and that is not of interest, is greater than the second predetermined threshold, selectively compressing content of the image that is both focused and that is of interest.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the degree of image compression of the image is full image compression in response to the image being categorized to a high image compression category.
7. A computer-implemented method, comprising: analyzing an image stored on a device for predefined differentiating content, contours, and boundaries therein; identifying focused and non-focused content within the image; identifying a restoration quality rate for each of the content of the image; identifying which of the content of the image is of interest based on a predefined user criterion; in response to determining that a storage consumption of the device is greater than a first predetermined threshold, selectively compressing content of the image that is both non-focused and that is not of interest; in response to determining that a storage consumption of the device subsequent selectively compressing content of the image that is both non-focused and that is not of interest, is greater than a second predetermined threshold, selectively compressing content of the image that is both focused and that is not of interest; and in response to determining that a storage consumption of the device subsequent selectively compressing content of the image that is both focused and that is not of interest, is greater than the second predetermined threshold, selectively compressing content of the image that is both focused and that is of interest.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein analyzing the image for differentiating content, contours and boundaries therein includes applying at least one technique from the group consisting of: Bayesian segmentation and analysis, image segmentation and analysis, and boundary tracing algorithms.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein identifying focused and non-focused content within the image is at least in part based on at least one factor from the group consisting of: size, sharpness, color, relative position, and contrast of a portion of the content within the image with respect to one or more other portions of content within the image.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein identifying the restoration quality rate for each of the content of the image is based on machine learning techniques, wherein the machine learning techniques consider peer pixels within the image or another image for the identifying.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein identifying which of the content of the image is of interest is at least in part based on at least one factor from the group consisting of: predetermined social media interests, a predetermined specified degree of importance of the content of the image that is of interest, and a determined frequency of a presence of the content of the image that is of interest existing in other images.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, comprising: in response to determining that the storage consumption of the device is still greater than the second predetermined threshold subsequent selectively compressing content of the image that is both focused and that is not of interest, outputting a request for user input.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, comprising: in response to selectively compressing content of the image, marking metadata of the image with a flag that indicates that the image has been selectively compressed.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, comprising: receiving a read request for the image after selective compression is performed on the image; restoring selectively compressed contents of the image; and unmarking the metadata of the image.
15. A computer program product for selective pixel compression of an image stored on a device based on predefined criteria, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions readable and/or executable by a computer to cause the computer to: classify, by the computer, an image stored on a device to a type of image; analyze, by the computer, a user's access pattern of other images also classified as the type of image; analyze, by the computer, at least one sharing medium that the user has previously used to share the image and/or other images, wherein the analyzing the at least one medium is at least in part based on the classified type of the image; analyze, by the computer, a previously recorded delete pattern of the user, wherein the analyzing the previously recorded delete pattern of the user is at least in part based on the classified type of the image; and based on the classified type of the image and/or based on results of the analyses, categorize, by the computer, the image to one of a plurality of image compression categories, each category corresponding to a degree of image compression.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the type of the image is selected from the group consisting of: nature, human, generic, and special.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, the program instructions readable and/or executable by the computer to cause the computer to: perform, by the computer, image compression of the image in accordance with the image compression category to which the image was categorized.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the degree of image compression of the image is no image compression in response to the image being categorized to a low image compression category.
19. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the degree of image compression of the image is selective image compression in response to the image being categorized to a medium image compression category, wherein performing image compression of the image in accordance with selective image compression includes: identifying focused and non-focused content within the image; in response to determining that a storage consumption of the device is greater than a first predetermined threshold, selectively compressing content of the image that is both non-focused and that is not of interest; in response to determining that a storage consumption of the device subsequent selectively compressing content of the image that is both non-focused and that is not of interest, is greater than a second predetermined threshold, selectively compressing content of the image that is both focused and that is not of interest; and in response to determining that a storage consumption of the device subsequent selectively compressing content of the image that is both focused and that is not of interest, is greater than the second predetermined threshold, selectively compressing content of the image that is both focused and that is of interest.
20. A system, comprising: a processor; and logic integrated with the processor, executable by the processor, or integrated with and executable by the processor, the logic being configured to: perform the method of claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
