<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BLACK HILLS IP HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LUNDBERG, STEVEN, W.
MARLOW, THOMAS G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70160776
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING TECHNIQUES FOR DETECTING DOCKETING DATA ANOMALIES
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for automatically detecting docketing data anomalies are provided. The method includes storing in a docketing system docketing information for a plurality of matters, each of the plurality of matters including a plurality of activities and a plurality of documents. Retrieving a first document from the plurality of documents associated with a first matter of the plurality of matters. Determining a document type of the first document. Extracting one or more features from the first document and the plurality of activities associated with the first matter. Training a machine learning model, based on the extracted features and the document type of the first document, to determine one or more expected docketing activities for a new document determined to match the document type.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for automatically detecting docketing data anomalies, the method comprising: storing in a docketing system docketing information for a plurality of matters, each of the plurality of matters including a plurality of activities and a plurality of documents; retrieving a first document from the plurality of documents associated with a first matter of the plurality of matters; determining a document type of the first document; extracting one or more features from the first document and the plurality of activities associated with the first matter; and training a machine learning model, based on the extracted features and the document type of the first document, to determine one or more expected docketing activities for a new document determined to match the document type.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving the first document; identifying one or more docketing activities, associated with the first matter, that are generated in response to receiving the first document; and extracting as the one or more features the one or more docketing activities and a title of the first document.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising identifying one or more deadlines, associated with the first matter, that are generated in response to receiving the first document, wherein the one or more features include the one or more deadlines.
4. The method of claim 2 further comprising determining a sequence of the one or more activities, wherein the one or more features include the sequence of the one or more activities.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining a status or age of the first matter, wherein the age is determined based on a filing date associated with the first matter, and wherein the one or more features include the status or age of the first matter.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving a second document associated with a second matter of the plurality of matters; obtaining a list of docketing activities generated for the second matter in response to receiving the second document; applying the trained machine learning model to the second document to determine one or more expected docketing activities for the second document; and detecting a docketing anomaly in response to determining that the obtained list of docketing activities does not match the one or more expected docketing activities for the second document.
7. The method of claim 1 further comprising: training the machine learning model, based on the one or more features extracted from the first document, to classify a country associated with the first document.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the classifying the country associated with the first document comprises classifying the first document as a Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) document or other document.
9. The method of claim 7 further comprising: receiving a second document; determining that the second document has been associated with a given country; applying the trained machine learning model to the second document to determine an expected country for the second document; and detecting a docketing anomaly in response to determining that the given country associated with the second document does not match the expected country for the second document.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the first document includes a plurality of checkboxes one of which is checked, and wherein the one or more features include a field for each checkbox, an indication of the field corresponding to the checkbox that is checked, a list of previous activities that predate the first document, and a given expected activity that is associated with the field corresponding to the checkbox that is checked and the list of previous activities.
11. A patent management system comprising: a server, operatively connected to the network, wherein the server includes: a processor; and a memory; and the processor configured to: store in a docketing system docketing information for a plurality of matters, each of the plurality of matters including a plurality of activities and a plurality of documents; retrieve a first document from the plurality of documents associated with a first matter of the plurality of matters; determine a document type of the first document; extract one or more features from the first document and the plurality of activities associated with the first matter; and train a machine learning model, based on the extracted features and the document type of the first document, to determine one or more expected docketing activities for a new document determined to match the document type.
12. The patent management system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive the first document; identify one or more docketing activities, associated with the first matter, that are generated in response to receiving the first document; and extract as the one or more features the one or more docketing activities and a title of the first document.
13. The patent management system of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to identify one or more deadlines, associated with the first matter, that are generated in response to receiving the first document, wherein the one or more features include the one or more deadlines.
14. The patent management system of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a sequence of the one or more activities, wherein the one or more features include the sequence of the one or more activities.
15. The patent management system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a status or age of the first matter, wherein the age is determined based on a filing date associated with the first matter, and wherein the one or more features include the status or age of the first matter.
16. The patent management system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive a second document associated with a second matter of the plurality of matters; obtain a list of docketing activities generated for the second matter in response to receiving the second document; apply the trained machine learning model to the second document to determine one or more expected docketing activities for the second document; and detect a docketing anomaly in response to determining that the obtained list of docketing activities does not match the one or more expected docketing activities for the second document.
17. The patent management system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to train the machine learning model, based on the one or more features extracted from the first document, to classify a country associated with the first document.
18. The patent management system of claim 17, wherein the classifying the country associated with the first document comprises classifying the first document as a Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) document or other document.
19. The patent management system of claim 17, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive a second document; determine that the second document has been associated with a given country; apply the trained machine learning model to the second document to determine an expected country for the second document; and detect a docketing anomaly in response to determining that the given country associated with the second document does not match the expected country for the second document.
20. The patent management system of claim 11, wherein the first document includes a plurality of checkboxes one of which is checked, and wherein the one or more features include a field for each checkbox, an indication of the field corresponding to the checkbox that is checked, a list of previous activities that predate the first document, and a given expected activity that is associated with the field corresponding to the checkbox that is checked and the list of previous activities.
</claims>
</document>
