<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q40/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUTURITY GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAU, CHING
WANG, JOHN
CUMMINGS, MICHAEL
NATHAN, HARI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71121964
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS, METHODS, AND PLATFORMS FOR AUTOMATED QUALITY MANAGEMENT AND IDENTIFICATION OF ERRORS, OMISSIONS AND/OR DEVIATIONS IN COORDINATING SERVICES AND/OR PAYMENTS RESPONSIVE TO REQUESTS FOR COVERAGE UNDER A POLICY
</title>

<abstract>
In an illustrative embodiment, systems and methods for monitoring insurance claims include identifying, based on predetermined monitoring frequency, insurance claims identified for vulnerability detection processing. Vulnerability detection features may be extracted from data files of the claims, which provide an indication of claim handling deficiencies that can cause claim leakage. A trained vulnerability detection data model can be used to detect claim handling vulnerabilities within the extracted vulnerability detection features where each of the vulnerabilities may include a likelihood of the vulnerability resulting in claim leakage. The vulnerability detection data model may be trained with a data set customized to a respective insurance provider for each claim. Vulnerability scores indicating an overall likelihood of claim leakage can be calculated for the claims based on the detected claim handling vulnerabilities. Vulnerability scores for claims assigned to a user may be presented within a user interface screen at a remote computing device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: processing circuitry; a non-transitory database storage region; and a non-transitory computer readable memory coupled to the processing circuitry, the memory storing machine-executable instructions, wherein the machine-executable instructions, when executed on the processing circuitry, cause the processing circuitry to identify, based on a predetermined claim monitoring frequency, at least one insurance claim of a plurality of insurance claims identified for vulnerability detection processing, wherein each identified claim is associated with one of a plurality of insurance providers, for each of the at least one identified insurance claim, extract, from data files associated with the respective insurance claim, vulnerability detection features for the respective insurance claim, wherein the extracted vulnerability detection features provide an indication of claim handling deficiencies that have a likelihood of resulting in claim leakage, detect, using a vulnerability detection data model stored in the non-transitory database storage region, one or more claim handling vulnerabilities within the extracted vulnerability detection features of the respective insurance claim, wherein the vulnerability detection data model is trained with a feature vector customized to a respective insurance provider of the plurality of insurance providers associated with the respective insurance claim, wherein the customized feature vector includes a portion of the extracted vulnerability detection features for claims associated with the respective insurance provider, and wherein each of the one or more detected claim handling vulnerabilities includes a likelihood of the respective claim handling vulnerability resulting in claim leakage, and calculate a respective vulnerability score indicating an overall likelihood of claim leakage based on the one or more detected claim handling vulnerabilities, and present, within a user interface screen at a remote computing device of a user, vulnerability scores for each of a plurality of claims assigned to the user for handling, wherein a portion of the plurality of claims includes a portion of the at least one claim.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the data files associated with each of the at least one claim includes structured and unstructured data files.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the unstructured data files include at least one of notes regarding any calls or interactions with one or more parties to the at least one claim, receipts, police reports, medical records, or automobile inspection reports.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein extracting the vulnerability detection features for the respective insurance claim comprises applying a natural language processing algorithm trained to detect claim vulnerability features within the unstructured data files.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the data files associated with each of the at least one claim include data files from open and closed claims associated with the respective insurance provider for the respective insurance claim.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the machine-executable instructions, when executed on the processing circuitry, cause the processing circuitry to generate, from the data files associated with the respective insurance provider, the customized feature vector for the respective insurance provider, wherein the customized feature vector includes entries representing characteristics of the open and closed claims.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the machine-executable instructions, when executed on the processing circuitry, cause the processing circuitry to identify, using the trained vulnerability detection data model for the respective insurance provider, a plurality of vulnerability metrics for detecting the one or more claim handling vulnerabilities.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein each of the plurality of vulnerability metrics is associated with one of a plurality of vulnerability metric categories, the vulnerability metric categories including two or more of claim assignment metrics, contact metrics, coverage metrics, investigation metrics, evaluation metrics, or litigation management metrics.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the contact metrics category includes at least one of an initial contact attempt, an initial contact date, or subsequent contact dates with one or more of the parties to the respective insurance claim.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein detecting the one or more claim handling vulnerabilities includes determining that one or more of the plurality of vulnerability metrics is not met for the respective claim.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the customized feature vector for the respective insurance provider comprises a target variable associated with a portion of a plurality of features in the customized feature vector, wherein the target variable corresponds to a detectable vulnerability within the respective claim from the portion of the plurality of features.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the machine-executable instructions, when executed on the processing circuitry, cause the processing circuitry to determine, from the extracted vulnerability detection features, that the target variable for the portion of the plurality of features is undetected, and detect, via application of a pattern recognition algorithm to the extracted vulnerability detection features, the target variable for the portion of plurality of features.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the machine-executable instructions, when executed on the processing circuitry, cause the processing circuitry to adjust, based on a number and type of the detected claim handling vulnerabilities, a periodicity of processing the at least one insurance claim for detected vulnerabilities.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the machine-executable instructions, when executed on the processing circuitry, cause the processing circuitry to detect, within the plurality of insurance claims, that one or more documents have been added to a first insurance claim of the plurality of insurance claims, and initiate, responsive to detecting the one or more added documents, processing of the first insurance claim for detected vulnerabilities.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the insurance claim is an automobile insurance claim.
16. A method comprising: training, by processing circuitry of a computing device, a vulnerability detection data model for each of a plurality of insurance providers to detect indications of claim handling deficiencies in claims for the respective insurance provider that have a likelihood of resulting in claim leakage, wherein the vulnerability detection data model for the respective insurance provider is trained with a feature vector customized to the respective insurance provider, and wherein the trained vulnerability detection model is saved in a data storage region; for each of a plurality of claims, each claim of the plurality of claims associated with each insurance provider of the plurality of insurance providers, extracting, by the processing circuitry from data files associated with the respective claim, vulnerability detection features for the respective claim, wherein the extracted vulnerability detection features provide an indication of claim handling deficiencies that have a likelihood of resulting in claim leakage; detecting, by the processing circuitry using the respective trained vulnerability detection data model stored in the data storage region, one or more claim handling vulnerabilities within the extracted vulnerability detection features of the respective claim, wherein each of the one or more detected claim handling vulnerabilities includes a likelihood of the respective claim handling vulnerability resulting in claim leakage; calculating, by the processing circuitry, a respective vulnerability score indicating an overall likelihood of claim leakage based on the one or more detected claim handling vulnerabilities; and outputting, by the processing circuitry via a user interface screen at a remote computing device of a user, vulnerability scores for at least a portion of the plurality of claims associated with the respective insurance provider.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the data files associated with the respective claim include structured and unstructured data files.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein extracting the vulnerability detection features for the respective insurance claim comprises applying a natural language processing algorithm trained to detect claim vulnerability features within the unstructured data files.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the data files associated with each of the at least one claim include data files from open and closed claims associated with the respective insurance provider for the respective insurance claim.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: generating, from the data files associated with the respective insurance provider, the customized feature vector for the respective insurance provider, wherein the customized feature vector includes entries representing characteristics of the open and closed claims.
</claims>
</document>
