<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ISRAEL, MOSHE
ITZHAKI, SHIRA
LIVNY, YOTAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68766830
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROTECTING IOT DEVICES BY BEHAVIOURAL ANALYSIS OF THEIR FILE SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are provided to automatically generate and apply policy rules for IoT devices. Historical data associated with IoT behaviors is obtained, where the historical data describes the file systems and behavior trends for multiple different IoT devices. Groups of the IoT devices are generated by grouping together devices identified as being common with one another based on similarities between their identified behaviors. Policies are then automatically generated for each group, corresponding to the detected behavior trends. Each policy determines how to subsequently monitor any device categorized as belonging to that policy's group and also how to respond when a device is operating abnormally. After a device is characterized as belonging to a group, that device is monitored to determine whether it conforms with the group's policy. Optionally, mitigation operations may be performed when the device is non-conforming.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable hardware storage devices having stored thereon computer-executable instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to cause the computer system to: for each device included within a plurality of devices, obtain historical data describing each corresponding device's file system; use the historical data to identify behavioral trends associated with the plurality of devices; generate groups of devices by grouping together common devices from among the plurality of devices, wherein the common devices are identified as being common with one another based on identified similarities between their corresponding behavioral trends; generate policy for each group of devices, wherein each corresponding policy determines how to subsequently monitor any devices included within the policy's corresponding group, and wherein each corresponding policy is based on the behavioral trends; and for a device included within one of the groups of devices, monitor said device to determine whether a behavior for said device conforms with the policy.
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein each device in the plurality of devices is an Internet of Things (IoT) device that includes at least one processor and a communication interface.
3. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the obtained historical data is obtained for a selected time period during which at least some devices included in the plurality of devices performed operations.
4. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the obtained historical data is obtained from one or more snapshots of each device's corresponding file system.
5. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the obtained historical data is obtained in real-time by collecting file system data each time a particular portion of each device's file system is modified.
6. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the historical data includes data describing how and when files in each device's file system were modified or accessed, and wherein modifications described by the data include access events, creation events, edit events, or deletion events.
7. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the behavioral trends identify normal operations of the plurality of devices and abnormal operations of the plurality of devices.
8. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the policy includes a set of rules defining which file system portions are to be monitored.
9. The computer system of claim 1, wherein execution of the computer-executable instructions further causes the computer system to: generate a set of anticipated behaviors for individual files or folders included within a particular device's file system.
10. The computer system of claim 1, wherein a machine learning model identifies the behavioral trends using the historical data.
11. A method for generating policy rules based on identified device behavior and for applying those policy rules to determine whether a particular device is conforming or not conforming with the policy rules, the method being performed by a computer system and comprising: for each device included within a plurality of devices, obtaining historical data describing each corresponding device's file system; using the historical data to identify behavioral trends associated with the plurality of devices; generating groups of devices by grouping together common devices from among the plurality of devices, wherein the common devices are identified as being common with one another based on identified similarities between their corresponding behavioral trends; generating policy for each group of devices, wherein each corresponding policy determines how to subsequently monitor any devices included within the policy's corresponding group, and wherein each corresponding policy is based on the behavioral trends; and for a device included within one of the groups of devices, monitoring said device to determine whether a behavior for said device conforms with the policy.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein, when a determination is made that said device's behavior does not conform with the policy, the method further includes preventing said device from continuing to behave in a non-conforming manner.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein, when a determination is made that said device's behavior does not conform with the policy, the method further includes issuing an alert to notify a receiving entity regarding a non-conforming behavior of said device.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the obtained historical data includes data describing specific users who are accessing a particular file or folder.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein specific policy generated for the particular file or folder includes a rule indicating that only the specific users are permitted to access the particular file or folder.
16. One or more hardware storage devices having stored thereon computer-executable instructions that are executable by one or more processors of a computer system to cause the computer system to: for each device included within a plurality of devices, obtain historical data describing each corresponding device's file system; use the historical data to identify behavioral trends associated with the plurality of devices; generate groups of devices by grouping together common devices from among the plurality of devices, wherein the common devices are identified as being common with one another based on identified similarities between their corresponding behavioral trends; generate policy for each group of devices, wherein each corresponding policy determines how to subsequently monitor any devices included within the policy's corresponding group, and wherein each corresponding policy is based on the behavioral trends; and for a device included within one of the groups of devices, monitor said device to determine whether a behavior for said device conforms with the policy.
17. The one or more hardware storage devices of claim 16, wherein generating the groups of devices is performed using density-based spatial clustering (DB-SCAN).
18. The one or more hardware storage devices of claim 16, wherein each device included within a particular group is sent that group's corresponding policy.
19. The one or more hardware storage devices of claim 16, wherein the computer system includes the following: a data collector engine that obtains the historical data; a behavior engine that identifies the behavioral trends; a policy engine that generates the policy for each of the groups of devices; and a tracker engine that monitors said device.
20. The one or more hardware storage devices of claim 16, wherein identifying the behavioral trends includes determining a time range when certain folders or files are normally modified.
</claims>
</document>
