<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SWAMPFOX TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAZIN, SERGEY A.
Pocta, Nathan
Moody, III, David Jesse
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72424818
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR MULTIVARIATE PREDICTION OF CONTACT CENTER METRICS USING MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
In a predictor device, a method for predicting a metric of a contact center includes receiving contact center operational data associated with a time duration; training a set of algorithms and their available hyperparameters with the contact center operational data to generate a set of data models; generating a score associated with each data model of the set of data models, the score quantifying a performance of each algorithm and its available hyperparameters on the contact center operational data; identifying the data model having the largest score as a best learning model for the time duration; and generating a contact center metric prediction based on the best learning model for the time duration.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. In a predictor device, a method for predicting a metric of a contact center, comprising: receiving, by the predictor device, contact center operational data associated with a time duration; training, by the predictor device, a set of algorithms and their available hyperparameters with the contact center operational data to generate a set of data models; generating, by the predictor device, a score associated with each data model of the set of data models, the score quantifying a performance of each algorithm and its available hyperparameters on the contact center operational data; identifying, by the predictor device, the data model having the largest score as a best learning model for the time duration; and generating, by the predictor device, a contact center metric prediction based on the best learning model for the time duration.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the contact center metric prediction based on the best learning model for the time duration comprises: receiving, by the predictor device, a prediction request, the prediction request including operating criteria which relate to the contact center; applying, by the predictor device, the operating criteria to the best learning model for the time duration to generate the contact center metric prediction; and forwarding, by the predictor device, the contact center metric prediction to the contact center.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising repeating the steps of: receiving, by the predictor device, contact center operational data for a subsequent time duration; training, by the predictor device, the set of algorithms and their available hyperparameters with the contact center operational data for the subsequent time duration to generate a set of subsequent data models; generating, by the predictor device, a score associated with each subsequent data model of the set of subsequent data models, the score quantifying the performance of each algorithm and its available hyperparameters on the contact center operational data for the subsequent time duration; and identifying, by the predictor device, the subsequent data model having the largest score as the subsequent best learning model for the subsequent time duration.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the data model having the largest score as the best learning model, further comprises: storing, by the predictor device, the best learning model as a pristine best learning model for the time duration in a best learner pristine portion of a best learner database; and storing, by the predictor device, the best learning model as a training best learning model for the time duration in a best learner training portion of the best learner database.
5. The method of claim 4, comprising: receiving, by the predictor device, updated contact center operational data associated with the time duration; accessing, by the predictor device, the best learner training portion of the best learner database; partially training, by the predictor device, a most-recent best learning model stored within the best learner training portion of the best learner database on the updated contact center operational data; partially training, by the predictor device, at least one subsequent best learning model stored within the best learner training portion of the best learner database on the updated contact center operational data; weighing, by the predictor device, each trained best learning model with a corresponding pristine best learning model stored within the best learner pristine portion of the best learner database to generate the score for each trained best learning model.
6. The method of claim 5, comprising, in response to receiving contact center operation criteria, applying, by the predictor device, the trained best learning model having the highest score to the contact center operation criteria to generate the contact center metric prediction for the contact center.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the score associated with each data model of the set of data models comprises: applying, by the predictor device, at least one training quality metric to the contact center operational data and to each data model of the set of data models; and generating, by the predictor device, a model quality value for each data model of the set of data models based upon application of the at least one training quality metric.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein: applying the at least one training quality metric to the contact center operational data and to each data model of the set of data models comprises applying, by the predictor device, a mean absolute error metric to the contact center operational data and to each data model of the set of data models; and generating the model quality value for each data model of the set of data models comprises generating, by the predictor device, a mean error score for each data model of the set of data models.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein: applying the at least one training quality metric to the contact center operational data and to each data model of the set of data models comprises applying, by the predictor device, an explained variance metric to the contact center operational data and to each data model of the set of data models; and generating the model quality value for each data model of the set of data models comprises generating, by the predictor device, an explained variance score for each data model of the set of data models.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein: applying the at least one training quality metric to the contact center operational data and to each data model of the set of data models comprises applying, by the predictor device, a cross-validation metric to the contact center operational data and to each data model of the set of data models; and generating the model quality value for each data model of the set of data models comprises generating, by the predictor device, a validation score for each data model of the set of data models.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying, by the predictor device, at least one on-line quality metric to the contact center operational data and to the best learning model to generate a quality score for the best learning model; and when the quality score of the best learning model for the time duration falls outside of a quality threshold, executing, by the predictor device, a quality correction function.
12. A predictor device configured to predict a metric of a contact center, the predictor device comprising: a controller having a processor and a memory, the controller configured to: receive contact center operational data associated with a time duration; train a set of algorithms and their available hyperparameters with the contact center operational data to generate a set of data models; generate a score associated with each data model of the set of data models, the score quantifying a performance of each algorithm and its available hyperparameters on the contact center operational data; identify the data model having the largest score as a best learning model for the time duration; and generate a contact center metric prediction based on the best learning model for the time duration.
13. The predictor device of claim 12, wherein when generating the contact center metric prediction based on the best learning model for the time duration the controller is configured to: receive a prediction request, the prediction request including operating criteria which relate to the contact center; apply the operating criteria to the best learning model for the time duration to generate the contact center metric prediction; and forward the contact center metric prediction to the contact center.
14. The predictor device of claim 12, wherein the controller is configured to further: receive contact center operational data for a subsequent time duration; train the set of algorithms and their available hyperparameters with the contact center operational data for the subsequent time duration to generate a set of subsequent data models; generate a score associated with each subsequent data model of the set of subsequent data models, the score quantifying the performance of each algorithm and its available hyperparameters on the contact center operational data for the subsequent time duration; and identify the subsequent data model having the largest score as the subsequent best learning model for the subsequent time duration.
15. The predictor device of claim 12, wherein when identifying the data model having the largest score as the best learning model, the controller is further configured to: store the best learning model as a pristine best learning model for the time duration in a best learner pristine portion of a best learner database; and store the best learning model as a training best learning model for the time duration in a best learner training portion of the best learner database.
16. The predictor device of claim 15, wherein the controller is configured to: receive updated contact center operational data associated with the time duration; access the best learner training portion of the best learner database; partially train a most-recent best learning model stored within the best learner training portion of the best learner database on the updated contact center operational data; partially train at least one subsequent best learning model stored within the best learner training portion of the best learner database on the updated contact center operational data; weigh each trained best learning model with a corresponding pristine best learning model stored within the best learner pristine portion of the best learner database to generate the score for each trained best learning model.
17. The predictor device of claim 16, wherein, in response to receiving contact center operation criteria, the controller is configured to apply the trained best learning model having the highest score to the contact center operation criteria to generate the contact center metric prediction for the contact center.
18. The predictor device of claim 12, wherein when generating the score associated with each data model of the set of data models, the controller is configured to: apply at least one training quality metric to the contact center operational data and to each data model of the set of data models; and generate a model quality value for each data model of the set of data models based upon application of the at least one training quality metric.
19. The predictor device of claim 18, wherein: when applying the at least one training quality metric to the contact center operational data and to each data model of the set of data models, the controller is configured to apply a mean absolute error metric to the contact center operational data and to each data model of the set of data models; and when generating the model quality value for each data model of the set of data models, the controller is configured to generate a mean error score for each data model of the set of data models.
20. The predictor device of claim 18, wherein: when applying the at least one training quality metric to the contact center operational data and to each data model of the set of data models the controller is configured to apply an explained variance metric to the contact center operational data and to each data model of the set of data models; and when generating the model quality value for each data model of the set of data models the controller is configured to generate an explained variance score for each data model of the set of data models.
21. The predictor device of claim 18, wherein: when applying the at least one training quality metric to the contact center operational data and to each data model of the set of data models the controller is configured to apply a cross-validation metric to the contact center operational data and to each data model of the set of data models; and when generating the model quality value for each data model of the set of data models the controller is configured to generate a validation score for each data model of the set of data models.
22. The predictor device of claim 13, wherein the controller is further configured to: apply at least one on-line quality metric to the contact center operational data and to the best learning model to generate a quality score for the best learning model; and. when the quality score of the best learning model for the time duration falls outside of a quality threshold, execute a quality correction function.
</claims>
</document>
