<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/02,G06Q40/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRONG FORCE TX PORTFOLIO 2018
</assignee>

<inventors>
CELLA, CHARLES HOWARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971459
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ROBOTIC PROCESS AUTOMATION SYSTEM FOR NEGOTIATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods of robotic process automation system for negotiation are disclosed. An example system for negotiating refinancing of a loan includes a data collection and monitoring circuit for collecting a training set of interactions between entities for at least one loan refinancing activity; an automated loan classification circuit that is trained on the training set of interactions to classify at least one loan refinancing action; and a robotic process automation circuit that is trained on a plurality of loan refinancing actions classified by the automated loan classification circuit and a plurality of loan refinancing outcomes to undertake a loan refinancing activity on behalf of a party to a loan.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A robotic process automation system for negotiating refinancing of a loan, comprising: a data collection and monitoring circuit for collecting a training set of interactions between entities for at least one loan refinancing activity; an automated loan classification circuit that is trained on the training set of interactions to classify at least one loan refinancing action; and a robotic process automation circuit that is trained on a plurality of loan refinancing actions classified by the automated loan classification circuit and a plurality of loan refinancing outcomes to undertake a loan refinancing activity on behalf of a party to a loan.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the loan refinancing activity includes at least one activity selected from among: initiating an offer to refinance, initiating a request to refinance, configuring a refinancing interest rate, configuring a refinancing payment schedule, configuring a refinancing balance, configuring collateral for a refinancing, managing use of proceeds of a refinancing, removing or placing a lien associated with a refinancing, verifying title for a refinancing, managing an inspection process, populating an application, negotiating terms and conditions for a refinancing, or closing a refinancing.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the data collection and monitoring circuit comprises at least one system selected from a group consisting of: an Internet of Things system, a camera system, a networked monitoring system, an internet monitoring system, a mobile device system, a wearable device system, a user interface system, or an interactive crowdsourcing system.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the entities are a plurality of parties to a loan transaction.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the plurality of parties is selected from a group consisting of: a primary lender, a secondary lender, a lending syndicate, a corporate lender, a government lender, a bank lender, a secured lender, bond issuer, a bond purchaser, an unsecured lender, a guarantor, a provider of security, a borrower, a debtor, an underwriter, an inspector, an assessor, an auditor, a valuation professional, a government official, or an accountant.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the automated loan classification circuit includes at least one of a machine learning system, a model-based system, a rule-based system, a deep learning system, a hybrid system, a neural network, a convolutional neural network, a feed forward neural network, a feedback neural network, a self-organizing map, a fuzzy logic system, a random walk system, a random forest system, a probabilistic system, a Bayesian system, or a simulation system.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the robotic process automation circuit is trained on a plurality of interactions of parties with a plurality of user interfaces involved in a plurality of lending processes.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein upon completion of a refinancing process, a smart contract for a refinance loan is automatically configured by a smart contract circuit based on an outcome of the loan refinancing activity.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of an outcome and an event of the refinancing is recorded in a distributed ledger associated with the loan.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the loan is of a type selected from at least one of an auto loan, an inventory loan, a capital equipment loan, a bond for performance, a capital improvement loan, a building loan, a loan backed by an account receivable, an invoice finance arrangement, a factoring arrangement, a pay day loan, a refund anticipation loan, a student loan, a syndicated loan, a title loan, a home loan, a venture debt loan, a loan of intellectual property, a loan of a contractual claim, a working capital loan, a small business loan, a farm loan, a municipal bond, or a subsidized loan.
11. The system of claim 1, further comprising a valuation circuit structured to use a valuation model to determine a value for a collateral for the loan.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the valuation circuit further comprises a market value data collection circuit structured to monitor and report on marketplace information relevant to a value of the collateral.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the market value data collection circuit is further structured to monitor pricing data or financial data for an offset collateral item in at least one public marketplace.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein a plurality of offset collateral items for valuing the collateral is constructed using a clustering circuit based on an attribute of the collateral.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the attribute is selected from a group consisting of: a category of the collateral, an age of the collateral, a condition of the collateral, a history of the collateral, a storage condition of the collateral, or a geolocation of the collateral.
16. A method, comprising: collecting a training set of interactions from at least one entity related to at least one loan refinancing activity; training an automated loan classification circuit on the training set of interactions to classify at least one loan refinancing action; and training a robotic process automation circuit on a training set of a plurality of loan refinancing actions classified by the automated loan classification circuit and a plurality of loan refinancing outcomes to undertake a loan refinancing activity on behalf of a party to a loan.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising, training the robotic process automation circuit on a plurality of interactions of parties with a plurality of user interfaces involved in a plurality of lending processes.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising, configuring a smart contract for the loan based on an outcome of the loan refinancing activity.
19. The method of claim 16, further comprising, determining a value for a collateral for the loan using a valuation model.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising monitoring and reporting on marketplace information relevant to a value of the collateral.
21. The method of claim 19, further comprising constructing a plurality of offset collateral items for valuing the collateral using a similarity clustering algorithm based on an attribute of the collateral.
</claims>
</document>
