<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/182,H04L29/08,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG, GANG
Yung, Marcel
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73231370
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROCESSING CONTENT ITEM OPERATIONS BASED ON FRAUD RESISTENT DEVICE IDENTIFIERS
</title>

<abstract>
At least one aspect is directed to improving performance of a data processing system processing content item operations by identifying fraudulent content item operations. The data processing system can receive a content item operation including a content item device identifier and an attestation token from a client device. The attestation token can include a public key associated with the computing device, an attestation token time stamp, a message payload, and an embedded digital signature. The data processing system can verify a digital signature of a combination of the public key, the attestation token time stamp, and the message payload using the public key as a signature verification key. The system may process the content item operation only if the digital signature verification process succeeds.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for processing content item operations, comprising: receiving, by a data processing system, from a computing device, a content item communication, the content item communication including a first content item device identifier and an attestation token including a public key associated with the computing device, an attestation token time stamp, a message payload, and a digital signature; verifying, by the data processing system, the digital signature using the public key, the time stamp, and the message payload; generating, by the data processing system, a second content item device identifier based on a crypto-hash of the public key; determining, by the data processing system, that the second content item device identifier matches the first content item device identifier; and processing, by the data processing system, responsive to verifying the digital signature and responsive to determining that the second content item device identifier matches the first content item device identifier, the content item communication based on the message payload.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein verifying the digital signature further comprises determining that the attestation token time stamp has a value within a predetermined range of temporal values.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of truncating the crypto-hash of the public key.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the content item communication includes determining the message payload of the content item communication includes a wipe-out request.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising removing data associated with the first content item device identifier responsive to determining the message payload includes the wipe-out request.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the content item communication includes determining the message payload of the content item communication includes a content item request and a set of parameters associated with a request for a content item.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising selecting, by the data processing system, a content item and sending the content item to a party associated with the received content item communication responsive to determining that the message payload includes the content item request.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the content item communication includes determining the message payload of the content item communication includes an application installation notification indicating that an application has been installed on a client device.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising updating, by the data processing system, a credit value associated with the content item responsive to determining the message payload includes the application installation notification.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving a content item communication includes receiving the first content item device identifier having a length of 16 bytes.
11. A system to process content item operations comprising one or more processors configured to: receive, from a computing device, a content item communication, the content item communication including a first content item device identifier and an attestation token including a public key associated with the computing device, an attestation token time stamp, a message payload, and a digital signature; verify the digital signature using the public key, the time stamp, and the message payload; generate a second content item device identifier based on a crypto-hash of the public key; determine that the second content item device identifier matches the first content item device identifier; and process, responsive to verifying the digital signature and responsive to determining that the second content item device identifier matches the first content item device identifier, the content item communication based on the message payload.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: verify the digital signature and determine that the attestation token time stamp has a value within a predetermined range of temporal values.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: generate the second content item device identifier based off of a truncation of the crypto-hash of the public key.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: process the content item communication by determining the message payload of the content item communication includes a wipe-out request.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: remove data associated with the first content item device identifier responsive to determining the message payload includes the wipe-out request.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: process the content item communication by determining the message payload of the content item communication includes a content item request and a set of parameters associated with a request for a content item.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: select and send, based on the set of parameters, a content item to a party associated with the received content item communication responsive to determining the message payload includes the content item request.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: process the content item communication by determining the message payload of the content item communication includes an application installation notification indicating that an application has been installed on a client device.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: update a credit value associated with the content item communication responsive to determining the content item communication includes the application installation notification.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: receive a content item communication including the first content item device identifier having a length of 16 bytes.
</claims>
</document>
