<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/00,G06N5/04,G06N99/00,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHATURVEDI, ABHISHEK
GOPINATHAN, SURENDRANATH
GORNALLE, SUNIL
KARANI, PRASAD
KHOSLA, GURUDAYAL
RAJAGOPALAN, NITHYA
REEVES, JEREMIAH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69177443
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC QUESTION RECOMMENDATION
</title>

<abstract>
In an example embodiment, a request is received, via a graphical user interface, to add a new object to a directory of objects, the new object having a first category in a hierarchical taxonomy of categories and objects. Then one or more questions previously assigned to the first category and/or one or more existing objects within the first category are retrieved. Each of the retrieved one or more questions and information about the new object are then fed into a first machine learned model trained to output a probability that a question is applicable to an object. One or more questions are generated for the new object based on the probability for each of the retrieved one or more questions. At least one of the one or more generated questions is then assigned to the new object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a memory, and a computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon, which, when executed by a processor, cause the system to perform operations comprising: receiving a request, via a graphical user interface, to add a new object to a directory of objects, the new object having a first category in a hierarchical taxonomy of categories and objects; retrieving one or more questions previously assigned to the first category and/or one or more existing objects within the first category; feeding each of the retrieved one or more questions and information about the new object into a first machine learned model trained to output a probability that a question is applicable to an object; generating one or more questions for the new object based on the probability for each of the retrieved one or more questions; and assigning at least one of the one or more generated questions to the new object.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first machine learned model is trained by: feeding one or more sample questions and associated objects into a feature extractor designed to extract one or more features from the one or more sample questions and associated objects; and passing the extracted one or more features and associated labels into a first machine learning algorithm to train the first machine learned model.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise filtering out one or more of the retrieved one or more questions based on one or more prerequisites saved for each of the retrieved one or more questions.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein at least one of the one or more prerequisites is an ingredient.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the ingredient is generated by passing the corresponding question into a second machine learned model trained to output one or more prerequisites.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, from a second graphical user interface, information about an event involving the new object; retrieving the at least one generated question assigned to the new object; and filtering the at least one generated question assigned to the new object based on the information about the event.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the information about the event includes a location.
8. A method comprising: receiving a request, via a graphical user interface, to add a new object to a directory of objects, the new object having a first category in a hierarchical taxonomy of categories and objects; retrieving one or more questions previously assigned to the first category and/or one or more existing objects within the first category; feeding each of the retrieved one or more questions and information about the new object into a first machine learned model trained to output a probability that a question is applicable to an object; generating one or more questions for the new object based on the probability for each of the retrieved one or more questions; and assigning at least one of the one or more generated questions to the new object.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the first machine learned model is trained by: feeding one or more sample questions and associated objects into a feature extractor designed to extract one or more features from the one or more sample questions and associated objects; and passing the extracted one or more features and associated labels into a first machine learning algorithm to train the first machine learned model.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising filtering out one or more of the retrieved one or more questions based on one or more prerequisites saved for each of the retrieved one or more questions.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein at least one of the one or more prerequisites is an ingredient.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the ingredient is generated by passing the corresponding question into a second machine learned model trained to output one or more prerequisites.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising: receiving, from a second graphical user interface, information about an event involving the new object; retrieving the at least one generated question assigned to the new object; and filtering the at least one generated question assigned to the new object based on the information about the event.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the information about the event includes a location.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising instructions which, when implemented by one or more machines, cause the one or more machines to perform operations comprising: receiving a request, via a graphical user interface, to add a new object to a directory of objects, the new object having a first category in a hierarchical taxonomy of categories and objects; retrieving one or more questions previously assigned to the first category and/or one or more existing objects within the first category; feeding each of the retrieved one or more questions and information about the new object into a first machine learned model trained to output a probability that a question is applicable to an object; generating one or more questions for the new object based on the probability for each of the retrieved one or more questions; and assigning at least one of the one or more generated questions to the new object.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the first machine learned model is trained by: feeding one or more sample questions and associated objects into a feature extractor designed to extract one or more features from the one or more sample questions and associated objects; and passing the extracted one or more features and associated labels into a first machine learning algorithm to train the first machine learned model.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise filtering out one or more of the retrieved one or more questions based on one or more prerequisites saved for each of the retrieved one or more questions.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein at least one of the one or more prerequisites is an ingredient.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the ingredient is generated by passing the corresponding question into a second machine learned model trained to output one or more prerequisites.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, from a second graphical user interface, information about an event involving the new object; retrieving the at least one generated question assigned to the new object; and filtering the at least one generated question assigned to the new object based on the information about the event.
</claims>
</document>
