<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2455,G06F16/332,G06F21/31,G06N20/00,G06N5/02,G06N5/04,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LEXISNEXIS RISK SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
YAAKOBOVICH, ELINA
ROTEM, BENNY
NYGATE, TAMIR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61191830
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR IMPROVING KBA IDENTITY AUTHENTICATION QUESTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Certain implementations include systems and methods for improving knowledge-based-authentication (KBA) identity authentication questions. A method is provided that includes receiving a set of identity information associated with a subject; querying one or more databases; receiving personally identifiable information; determining, from the personally identifiable information, at least one subject characteristic; producing, with a predictive model and based on the personally identifiable information and on the at least one subject characteristic, at least one knowledge-based authentication (KBA) identity proofing question having a personally identifiable correct answer; sending, for display on a first computing device associated with the subject, the at least one KBA identity proofing question; receiving, responsive to the sending, a response answer; and responsive to a match between the response answer and the personally identifiable correct answer, sending, for display on the first computing device associated with the subject, a first indication of authentication.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving a set of identity information associated with a subject; querying one or more databases with at least a portion of the set of identity information; receiving, in response to the querying, personally identifiable information; determining, from the personally identifiable information, a gender of the subject; ranking, by a predictive model executing on one or more computer processors, a plurality of question topics and associated pass rate metrics based on the gender of the subject while suppressing false-positive question topics; selecting, based on the ranking and the gender of the subject, at least one knowledge-based authentication (KBA) proofing question for presentation to the subject, the at least one KBA proofing question having a personally identifiable correct answer; sending, for display on a first computing device associated with the subject, the at least one KBA identity proofing question; receiving, responsive to the sending, a response answer; and responsive to a match between the response answer and the personally identifiable correct answer, sending, for display on the first computing device associated with the subject, a first indication of authentication.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, from the personally identifiable information, an age of the subject; further ranking the plurality of question topics and associated pass rate metrics based on the age of the subject; and selecting the at least one KBA proofing question based on the further ranking and the age of the subject.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising refining the predictive model based on the match or a mismatch between the response answer and the personally identifiable correct answer.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising refining the predictive model based on a history of matches between the response answer and the personally identifiable correct answer to produce KBA identity proofing questions that increase a probability of a match.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein refining the predictive model comprises applying decision tree learning.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein applying the decision tree learning comprises applying an ID4.5 algorithm.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining one or more subject characteristics associated with the subject, wherein the one or more subject characteristics comprise a characteristic related to one or more of: age, culture, residence, vehicle, subject history, and the first computing device.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the characteristic related to the first computing device comprises one or more of: a phone number, an Internet Protocol (IP) address, a Media Access Control (MAC) address, a location, an indication of signal-to-noise, browser configuration information, operating system information, a listing of installed fonts, and a listing of installed plug-ins.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising sending, for display on the first computing device associated with the subject, an indication of authentication failure responsive to a determined mismatch between the response answer and the personally identifiable correct answer.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the set of identity information comprises receiving one or more of: a name, an address, a gender, a birth date, a phone number, at least portion of a social security number, an IP address, a location, and a communication device electronic fingerprint.
11. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving a set of identity information associated with a subject; querying one or more databases with at least a portion of the set of identity information; receiving, in response to the querying, personally identifiable information; determining, from the personally identifiable information, an age of the subject; ranking, by a predictive model executing on one or more computer processors, a plurality of question topics and associated pass rate metrics based on the age of the subject while suppressing false-positive question topics; selecting, based on the ranking and the age of the subject, at least one knowledge-based authentication (KBA) proofing question for presentation to the subject, the at least one KBA proofing question having a personally identifiable correct answer; sending, for display on a first computing device associated with the subject, the at least one KBA identity proofing question; receiving, responsive to the sending, a response answer; and responsive to a match between the response answer and the personally identifiable correct answer, sending, for display on the first computing device associated with the subject, a first indication of authentication.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining, from the personally identifiable information, a gender of the subject; further ranking the plurality of question topics and associated pass rate metrics based on the gender of the subject; and selecting the at least one KBA proofing question based on the further ranking and the gender of the subject.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising refining the predictive model based on the match or a mismatch between the response answer and the personally identifiable correct answer.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising refining the predictive model based on a history of matches between the response answer and the personally identifiable correct answer to produce KBA identity proofing questions that increase a probability of a match.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising determining one or more subject characteristics associated with the subject, wherein the one or more subject characteristics comprise a characteristic related to one or more of: gender, culture, residence, vehicle, subject history, and the first computing device.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the characteristic related to the first computing device comprises one or more of: a phone number, an Internet Protocol (IP) address, a Media Access Control (MAC) address, a location, an indication of signal-to-noise, browser configuration information, operating system information, a listing of installed fonts, and a listing of installed plug-ins.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising sending, for display on the first computing device associated with the subject, an indication of authentication failure responsive to a determined mismatch between the response answer and the personally identifiable correct answer.
18. A non-transient computer-readable medium storing instructions, that when executed by a user device having one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising: receiving a set of identity information associated with a subject; querying one or more databases with at least a portion of the set of identity information; receiving, in response to the querying, personally identifiable information; determining, from the personally identifiable information, at least one subject characteristic; ranking, by a predictive model executing on one or more computer processors, a plurality of question topics and associated pass rate metrics based on the at least one subject characteristic while suppressing false-positive question topics; selecting, based on the ranking, at least one knowledge-based authentication (KBA) proofing question for presentation to the subject, the at least one KBA proofing question having a personally identifiable correct answer; sending, for display on a first computing device associated with the subject, the at least one KBA identity proofing question; receiving, responsive to the sending, a response answer; and responsive to a match between the response answer and the personally identifiable correct answer, sending, for display on the first computing device associated with the subject, a first indication of authentication.
19. The non-transient computer-readable medium of claim 18, further comprising: determining, from the personally identifiable information, a gender of the subject; and further ranking the plurality of question topics and associated pass rate metrics based on the gender of the subject.
20. The non-transient computer-readable medium of claim 18, further comprising: determining, from the personally identifiable information, an age of the subject; and further ranking the plurality of question topics and associated pass rate metrics based on the age of the subject.
</claims>
</document>
