<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01G31/02,A01G7/04,A01G9/02,G06N3/04,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAUGHMAN, AARON, K.
GILLAIN, REMI PIERRE
PANDA, ASHOK K.
TANUKU, ASHISH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70770239
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NEURAL NETWORK FORECASTING FOR TIERED HYDROPONIC NATURAL FARMING CONFIGURATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for neural network forecasting for tiered hydroponic farming configurations are disclosed. In embodiments, a computer-implemented method includes: determining, by a computing device, ecology factors associated with a plant of interest; determining, by the computing device, beneficial interdependencies of the ecology factors associated with the plant of interest using an artificial neural network system; and generating, by the computing device, an ecology framework for the plant of interest within a cultivation system based on the beneficial interdependencies of the ecology factors, wherein the ecology framework reflects ecological conditions desired to promote healthy growth of the plant of interest.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: determining, by a computing device, ecology factors associated with a plant of interest; determining, by the computing device, beneficial interdependencies of the ecology factors associated with the plant of interest using an artificial neural network system; and generating, by the computing device, an ecology framework for the plant of interest within a cultivation system based on the beneficial interdependencies of the ecology factors, wherein the ecology framework reflects ecological conditions desired to promote healthy growth of the plant of interest.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising identifying, by the computing device, the plant of interest in the cultivation system.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the ecology factors include microbes, secondary plants, insects, and animals.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising receiving environment data from the cultivation system, wherein the environment data provides the computing device with information regarding a state of the cultivation system.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising updating the ecology framework based on the environment data.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the environment data includes real-time sensor data obtained from sensors at the cultivation system.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising determining desired adjustments to the cultivation system based on the environment data.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, further comprising, outputting a notification regarding the desired adjustments.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, further comprising, automatically implementing changes to the cultivation system based on the desired adjustments.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the changes comprise changes to a position of a plant container in a multi-tiered hydroponic device of the cultivation system.
11. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to: determine ecology factors associated with a plant of interest; determine beneficial interdependencies of the ecology factors associated with the plant of interest using an artificial neural network system, including: inputting qualitative ecology data to an encoder to produce word encodings; inputting the word encodings into a long-short term memory (LSTM) neural network to produce a vector output; inputting quantifiable ecology data and the vector output into a convolutional neural network (CNN) to produce a main output; and analyzing the main output to determine the beneficial interdependencies of the ecology factors; and generate an ecology framework for the plant of interest within a cultivation system based on the beneficial interdependencies of the ecology factors, wherein the ecology framework reflects ecological conditions desired to promote healthy growth of the plant of interest.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, further comprising program instruction to cause the computing device to receive environment data from the cultivation system, wherein the environment data provides the computing device with information regarding a state of the cultivation system.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, further comprising program instruction to cause the computing device to update the ecology framework based on the environment data.
14. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the environment data includes real-time sensor data obtained from sensors at the cultivation system.
15. The computer program product of claim 12, further comprising program instruction to cause the computing device to determine desired adjustments to the cultivation system based on the environment data.
16. A system comprising: a processor, a computer readable memory and a computer readable storage medium associated with a computing device; program instructions to determine ecology factors associated with a plant of interest in a cultivation system; program instructions to determine beneficial interdependencies of the ecology factors associated with the plant of interest using an artificial neural network system, wherein the beneficial interdependencies include beneficial interdependencies between at least one secondary plant within the cultivation system; and program instructions to generate an ecology framework for the plant of interest within the cultivation system based on the beneficial interdependencies of the ecology factors, wherein the ecology framework reflects ecological conditions desired to promote healthy growth of the plant of interest within the cultivation system, wherein the program instructions are stored on the computer readable storage medium for execution by the processor via the computer readable memory.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the plant of interest is an above-ground plant growing in a multi-tiered hydroponic device of the cultivation system and the at least one secondary plant is an in-ground plant growing terrestrially in the cultivation system.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the at least one secondary plant is an above-ground plant growing in a multi-tiered hydroponic device of the cultivation system and the plant of interest is an in-ground plant growing terrestrially in the cultivation system.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the ecology factors include microbes, secondary plants, insects, and animals.
20. The system of claim 16, further comprising: program instructions to receive environment data from the cultivation system, wherein the environment data provides the computing device with information regarding a state of the cultivation system; and program instructions to determine desired adjustments to the cultivation system based on the environment data.
</claims>
</document>
