<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06F17/15,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROUTRAY, RAMANI
KELGERE RAMESH, ABHINANDAN
IP, ROBERT
CHEN, HANQING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72336425
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computer Model Machine Learning Based on Correlations of Training Data with Performance Trends
</title>

<abstract>
Mechanisms are provided for training a computer implemented model. The mechanisms perform multiple instances of training of the computer implemented model, where each instance of training of the computer implemented model comprises training the computer implemented model using a different training data set to generate a different instance of a trained computer implemented model. The mechanisms generate computer implemented model results after each instance of training by executing the corresponding instance of the trained computer implemented model. The mechanisms record differences in the instances of training of the computer implemented model in association with corresponding identifiers of the instances of trained computer implemented model and corresponding computer implemented model results. The mechanisms analyze the recorded differences and the corresponding computer implemented model results, and generate an output indicating a correlation between recorded differences and corresponding computer implemented model results.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, in a data processing system, for training a computer implemented model, comprising: performing, by the data processing system, multiple instances of training of the computer implemented model, wherein each instance of training of the computer implemented model comprises training the computer implemented model using a different training data set to generate a different instance of a trained computer implemented model; generating computer implemented model results after each instance of training by executing the corresponding instance of the trained computer implemented model; recording, by the data processing system, differences in the instances of training of the computer implemented model in association with corresponding identifiers of the instances of trained computer implemented model and corresponding computer implemented model results; analyzing, by the data processing system, the recorded differences and the corresponding computer implemented model results; and generating, by the data processing system, an output indicating a correlation between recorded differences and corresponding computer implemented model results.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein performing multiple instances of training of the computer implemented model comprises: executing, by the data processing system, a first training operation on the computer implemented model using a first version of training data and a first set of one or more hyperparameters to generate a first trained instance of the computer implemented model; and executing, by the data processing system, a second training operation on the computer implemented model using a second version of the training data and a second set of one or more hyperparameters to generate a second trained instance of the computer implemented model.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein recording changes in the instances of training of the computer implemented model comprises: generating, by the data processing system, a first tracking data structure that correlates a first identifier of the first training operation with the first version of training data and the first set of one or more hyperparameters; and generating, by the data processing system, a second tracking data structure that correlates a second identifier of the second training operation with the second version of training data and the second set of one or more hyperparameters.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein generating computer implemented model results comprises: generating first model results from executing the first instance of the computer implemented model; and generating second model results from executing the second instance of the computer implemented model, and wherein analyzing the recorded differences and the corresponding computer implemented model results comprises performing, by the data processing system, analytics on the first tracking data structure, second tracking data structure, first model results, and second model results to identify differences between the first training operation and the second training operation, that correlate with differences between the first model results and the second model results.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the second version of training data is a modified version of the first version of training data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the output further comprises: generating one or more recommendations for modifying training of the computer implemented model to improve training data by identifying what changes increase the accuracy of the computer implemented model based on the recorded differences and corresponding computer implemented model results.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: automatically executing computer operations to implement the generated one or more recommendations, wherein the computer operations comprise at least one of obtaining new training data comprising entities specified in the one or more recommendations as entities that improve training of the computer implemented model, removing entities, specified in the one or more recommendations as entities that degrade training of the computer implemented model, modifying at least one hyperparameter of the computer implemented model, or modifying a computer model training tool used to perform training of the computer implemented model.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: tracking instances of training data used to train the computer implemented model so that training data used to train the computer implemented model may be reverted back to a previous version of training data.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the analyzing comprises performing a trend analysis on the recorded differences and the corresponding computer implemented model results.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the multiple instances of training of the computer implemented model comprises training different copies of the computer implemented model by different computer implemented model developers at one or more locations, to generate different subsets of instances of the trained computer implemented model, and wherein the method is performed across all the subsets of instances of the trained implemented model from the different computer implemented model developers.
11. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having a computer readable program stored therein, wherein the computer readable program, when executed on a data processing system, causes the data processing system to: perform multiple instances of training of the computer implemented model, wherein each instance of training of the computer implemented model comprises training the computer implemented model using a different training data set to generate a different instance of a trained computer implemented model; generate computer implemented model results after each instance of training by executing the corresponding instance of the trained computer implemented model; record differences in the instances of training of the computer implemented model in association with corresponding identifiers of the instances of trained computer implemented model and corresponding computer implemented model results; analyze the recorded differences and the corresponding computer implemented model results; and generate an output indicating a correlation between recorded differences and corresponding computer implemented model results.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the computer readable program further causes the data processing system to perform multiple instances of training of the computer implemented model at least by: executing a first training operation on the computer implemented model using a first version of training data and a first set of one or more hyperparameters to generate a first trained instance of the computer implemented model; and executing a second training operation on the computer implemented model using a second version of the training data and a second set of one or more hyperparameters to generate a second trained instance of the computer implemented model.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the computer readable program further causes the data processing system to record changes in the instances of training of the computer implemented model at least by: generating a first tracking data structure that correlates a first identifier of the first training operation with the first version of training data and the first set of one or more hyperparameters; and generating a second tracking data structure that correlates a second identifier of the second training operation with the second version of training data and the second set of one or more hyperparameters.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the computer readable program further causes the data processing system to generate computer implemented model results at least by: generating first model results from executing the first instance of the computer implemented model; and generating second model results from executing the second instance of the computer implemented model, and wherein analyzing the recorded differences and the corresponding computer implemented model results comprises performing, by the data processing system, analytics on the first tracking data structure, second tracking data structure, first model results, and second model results to identify differences between the first training operation and the second training operation, that correlate with differences between the first model results and the second model results.
15. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the second version of training data is a modified version of the first version of training data.
16. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the computer readable program further causes the data processing system to generate the output at least by: generating one or more recommendations for modifying training of the computer implemented model to improve training data by identifying what changes increase the accuracy of the computer implemented model based on the recorded differences and corresponding computer implemented model results.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the computer readable program further causes the data processing system to: automatically execute computer operations to implement the generated one or more recommendations, wherein the computer operations comprise at least one of obtaining new training data comprising entities specified in the one or more recommendations as entities that improve training of the computer implemented model, removing entities, specified in the one or more recommendations as entities that degrade training of the computer implemented model, modifying at least one hyperparameter of the computer implemented model, or modifying a computer model training tool used to perform training of the computer implemented model.
18. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the computer readable program further causes the data processing system to track instances of training data used to train the computer implemented model so that training data used to train the computer implemented model may be reverted back to a previous version of training data.
19. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the computer readable program further causes the data processing system to analyze the recorded differences and the corresponding computer implemented model results at least by performing a trend analysis on the recorded differences and the corresponding computer implemented model results.
20. An apparatus comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor, wherein the memory comprises instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: perform multiple instances of training of the computer implemented model, wherein each instance of training of the computer implemented model comprises training the computer implemented model using a different training data set to generate a different instance of a trained computer implemented model; generate computer implemented model results after each instance of training by executing the corresponding instance of the trained computer implemented model; record differences in the instances of training of the computer implemented model in association with corresponding identifiers of the instances of trained computer implemented model and corresponding computer implemented model results; analyze the recorded differences and the corresponding computer implemented model results; and generate an output indicating a correlation between recorded differences and corresponding computer implemented model results.
</claims>
</document>
