<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CITRIX SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DHANABALAN, PRAVEEN RAJA
Achyuth, Nandikotkur
Athlur, Anudeep Narasimhaprasad
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70471105
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENHANCED FILE SHARING SYSTEMS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
A computer system is provided. The computer system can include a memory, a network interface, and at least one processor coupled to the memory and the network interface. The at least one processor can be configured to identify a file to provide to a computing device; predict a geolocation at which the computing device is to request access to the file; predict a network bandwidth to be available to the computing device at the geolocation; determine, based on the file and the network bandwidth, a first portion of the file to store in a cache of the computing device; and download, via the network interface, the first portion of the file to the cache.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising: a memory; a network interface; and at least one processor coupled to the memory and the network interface and configured to identify a file to provide to a computing device associated with a user, predict a geolocation at which the computing device is to request access to the file, predict, based on historical data representative of network bandwidth filtered to include data specific to peers of the user, a network bandwidth to be available to the computing device at the geolocation, determine, based on the file and the network bandwidth, a first portion of the file to store in a cache of the computing device, and download, via the network interface, the first portion of the file to the cache.
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: receive the file; receive a request to share the file with the user; and identify an association between the user and the computing device, wherein the at least one processor is configured to identify the file to provide to the computing device in response to receiving the file and/or receiving the request to share the file.
3. The computer system of claim 2, wherein the at least one processor is configured to predict the network bandwidth by identifying the network bandwidth within output from a bandwidth prediction process.
4. The computer system of claim 3, wherein the bandwidth prediction process comprises a machine learning process trained using the historical data representative of network bandwidth, a probability distribution function derived from the historical data representative of network bandwidth, and/or an identification process that accesses a cross-reference associating geolocations with the historical data representative of network bandwidth.
5. (canceled)
6. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is configured to predict the geolocation by identifying the geolocation within output from a geolocation prediction process.
7. The computer system of claim 6, wherein the geolocation prediction process comprises a machine learning process trained using historical data representative of file access, a probability distribution function derived from the historical data representative of file access, and/or an interoperation that identifies the geolocation within a schedule of the user associated with the computing device.
8. The computer system of claim 7, wherein the historical data representative of file access is filtered to include data specific to the user, peers of the user, and/or files related to the file.
9. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine the first portion of the file to store in the cache by being configured to: identify a processing rate of an application used to access to the file; determine a second portion of the file that can be downloaded to the geolocation having the network bandwidth within a period of time required to process the first portion of the file at the processing rate; and identify the first portion of the file as being a portion of the file other than the second portion of the file.
10. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the file is a video file.
11. The computer system of claim 1, further comprising the computing device associated with the user, the computing device including one or more processors configured to: receive a message to download the first portion of the file; determine an amount of unallocated storage available in the cache; determine whether the amount of unallocated storage is sufficient to store the first portion of the file; identify, in response to determining that the amount of unallocated storage is insufficient to store the first portion of the file, data stored in the cache having a size sufficient to store, in combination with the amount of unallocated storage, the first portion of the file; and delete the data from the cache.
12. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are configured to identify the data stored in the cache at least in part by identifying data of a previously accessed file.
13. A method of managing cached data, the method comprising: receiving a file at a first computing device; receiving a request to share the file with a user; identifying an association between the user and a second computing device; predicting a geolocation at which the second computing device is to request access to the file; predicting, based on historical data representative of network bandwidth filtered to include data specific to peers of the user, a network bandwidth to be available to the second computing device at the geolocation; determining, based on the file and the network bandwidth, a first portion of the file to store in a cache of the second computing device; and downloading the first portion of the file to the cache.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein predicting the network bandwidth comprises identifying the network bandwidth within output from a bandwidth prediction process.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein identifying the network bandwidth comprises executing a machine learning process trained using the historical data representative of network bandwidth, evaluating a probability distribution function derived from the historical data representative of network bandwidth, and/or identifying the network bandwidth within a cross-reference associating geolocations with the historical data representative of network bandwidth.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein predicting the geolocation comprises identifying the geolocation within output from a geolocation prediction process.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein identifying the geolocation within the output comprises executing a machine learning process trained using historical data representative of file access, evaluating a probability distribution function derived from the historical data representative of file access, and/or identifying the geolocation within a schedule of the user.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein executing the machine learning process comprises executing a machine learning process trained using historical data representative of file access initiated by a device associated with the user and/or a peer of the user.
19. The method of claim 13, wherein determining the first portion of the file to store in the cache comprises: identifying a processing rate of an application used to access to the file; determining a second portion of the file that can be downloaded to the geolocation having the network bandwidth within a period of time required to process the first portion of the file at the processing rate; and identifying the first portion of the file as being a portion of the file other than the second portion of the file.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein receiving the file comprises receiving a video file.
</claims>
</document>
