<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,H04L12/18,H04N7/15
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DELANEY, MARK
GRANT, ROBERT H.
HARPUR, LIAM S.
WARD, BRETT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69946813
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Behavioral influence system in socially collaborative tools
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and computer program products for influencing audience behavior in a presentation are provided. Aspects include receiving presentation data for a presentation on a video conference, analyzing the presentation data to identifying one or more behavior cues for a desired social contagion associated with the presentation, receiving video data for a plurality of audience members for the presentation, analyzing the video data to identifying a first audience member displaying at least one of the one or more behavior cues, and displaying the first audience member in the video conference for a first length of time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for influencing audience behavior in a presentation, the method comprising: receiving presentation data associated with a presentation over a video conference, wherein the presentation data comprises visual and audio content associated with the presentation, and wherein the presentation data further comprises audio data associated with a presenter associated with the presentation; analyzing the visual and audio content to determine a desired social contagion, wherein determining the desired social contagion comprises: determining the desired social contagion based on a feature vector, generated by a machine learning model, comprising a plurality of features extracted from the audio data; retrieving behavior cue data comprising a plurality of behavior cues; and comparing the desired social contagion to the behavior cue data to select the one or more behavior cues for the desired social contagion; determining one or more behavior cues that elicit the desired social contagion; receiving video data for a plurality of audience members for the presentation; analyzing the video data to identifying a first audience member displaying at least one of the one or more behavior cues; displaying the first audience member in the video conference for a first length of time.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: collecting additional video data for the plurality of audience members for the presentation during the first length of time; analyzing the additional video data to determine that the desired social contagion associated with the presentation is being displayed by a second audience member in the plurality of audience members; and displaying the second audience member for a second period of time.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: analyzing video data of the first audience member during the first length of time; and ceasing displaying the first audience member in the video conference based on determining the first audience member is not displaying at least one of the one or more behavior cues.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving historical data associated with the plurality of audience members; analyze the historical data to determine a probability for a third audience member in the plurality of audience members to exhibit the one or more behavior cues; and displaying the third audience member in the video conference for a third length of time based at least in part on the probability exceeding a threshold probability.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: monitoring video data of the third audience member during the third length of time to determine whether the third audience member displays the one or more behavior cues; and updating the historical data based on a determination that the third audience member displayed at least one of the one or more behavior cues during the third length of time.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising: updating the historical data based on a determination that the third audience member did not displayed the one or more behavior cues during the third length of time.
7. (canceled)
8. A system for influencing audience behavior in a presentation, the system comprising: a processor coupled to a memory, the processor configured to: receive presentation data associated with a presentation over a video conference, wherein the presentation data comprises visual and audio content associated with the presentation, and wherein the presentation data further comprises audio data associated with a presenter associated with the presentation; analyze the visual and audio content to determine a desired social contagion, wherein determining the desired social contagion comprises: determining the desired social contagion based on a feature vector, generated by a machine learning model, comprising a plurality of features extracted from the audio data; retrieving behavior cue data comprising a plurality of behavior cues; and comparing the desired social contagion to the behavior cue data to select the one or more behavior cues for the desired social contagion; determine one or more behavior cues that elicit the desired social contagion; receive video data for a plurality of audience members for the presentation; analyze the video data to identifying a first audience member displaying at least one of the one or more behavior cues; display the first audience member in the video conference for a first length of time.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to: collect additional video data for the plurality of audience members for the presentation during the first length of time; analyze the additional video data to determine that the desired social contagion associated with the presentation is being displayed by a second audience member in the plurality of audience members; and display the second audience member for a second period of time.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to: analyze video data of the first audience member during the first length of time; and cease displaying the first audience member in the video conference based on determining the first audience member is not displaying at least one of the one or more behavior cues.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive historical data associated with the plurality of audience members; analyze the historical data to determine a probability for a third audience member in the plurality of audience members to exhibit the one or more behavior cues; and display the third audience member in the video conference for a third length of time based at least in part on the probability exceeding a threshold probability;
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to: monitor video data of the third audience member during the third length of time to determine whether the third audience member displays the one or more behavior cues; and update the historical data based on a determination that the third audience member displayed at least one of the one or more behavior cues during the third length of time.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to: update the historical data based on a determination that the third audience member did not displayed the one or more behavior cues during the third length of time.
14. (canceled)
15. A computer program product for influencing audience behavior in a presentation the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: receiving presentation data associated with a presentation over a video conference, wherein the presentation data comprises visual and audio content associated with the presentation, and wherein the presentation data further comprises audio data associated with a presenter associated with the presentation; analyzing the visual and audio content to determine a desired social contagion, wherein determining the desired social contagion comprises: determining the desired social contagion based on a feature vector, generated by a machine learning model, comprising a plurality of features extracted from the audio data; retrieving behavior cue data comprising a plurality of behavior cues; and comparing the desired social contagion to the behavior cue data to select the one or more behavior cues for the desired social contagion; determining one or more behavior cues that elicit the desired social contagion; receiving video data for a plurality of audience members for the presentation; analyzing the video data to identifying a first audience member displaying at least one of the one or more behavior cues; displaying the first audience member in the video conference for a first length of time.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, further comprising: collecting additional video data for the plurality of audience members for the presentation during the first length of time; analyzing the additional video data to determine that the desired social contagion associated with the presentation is being displayed by a second audience member in the plurality of audience members; and displaying the second audience member for a second period of time.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, further comprising: analyzing video data of the first audience member during the first length of time; and ceasing displaying the first audience member in the video conference based on determining the first audience member is not displaying at least one of the one or more behavior cues.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, further comprising: receiving historical data associated with the plurality of audience members; analyze the historical data to determine a probability for a third audience member in the plurality of audience members to exhibit the one or more behavior cues; and displaying the third audience member in the video conference for a third length of time based at least in part on the probability exceeding a threshold probability.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, further comprising: monitoring video data of the third audience member during the third length of time to determine whether the third audience member displays the one or more behavior cues; and updating the historical data based on a determination that the third audience member displayed at least one of the one or more behavior cues during the third length of time.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, further comprising: updating the historical data based on a determination that the third audience member did not displayed the one or more behavior cues during the third length of time.
</claims>
</document>
