<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G09B19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZOE GLOBAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
HADJIGEORGIOU, GEORGE
WOLF, JONATHAN THOMAS
DAVIES, RICHARD JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69586451
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Generating Personalized Food Recommendations from Different Food Sources
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are disclosed herein for generating personalized nutritional recommendations for foods available from one or more food sources. Using the technologies described herein, a programmatic analysis is performed on different data to predict values of personalized nutrition data, such as one or more target biomarkers, that are associated with an individual after eating the foods. Personalized nutritional recommendations for foods available from the food sources are then generated, using the predicted values, and provided to the individual. The predictions are based on data that is associated with the individual, such as microbiome data, triglycerides data, glucose data, nutritional data, questionnaire data, and the like. A prediction service can utilize a machine learning mechanism to generate the predicted personalized nutrition data. A nutrition service utilizes the predicted personalized nutrition data when generating the personalized nutritional recommendations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: obtaining food data associated with foods available from one or more food sources; accessing health data associated with an individual; generating, based at least in part on the food data and the health data, first personalized nutrition data for the individual eating a first food or combination of foods from the food sources; generating, based at least in part on the food data and the health data, second personalized nutrition data for the individual eating a second food or combination of foods from the food sources; and generating, based at least in part on the food data, the health data, the first personalized nutrition data and/or the second personalized nutrition data, a personalized nutrition recommendation for the individual that identifies a preference of the first food or combination of foods or the second food or combination of foods.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the first personalized nutrition data or the second personalized nutrition data include data indicating a value associated with a target biomarker predicted for the individual after eating the first food or combination of foods or the second food or combination of foods.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the food data includes accessing a digital image, and identifying at least one food item from an automated graphical analysis of the digital image.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving the health data includes receiving microbiome data associated with the individual.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the first predicted data and the second predicted data comprises utilizing a machine learning mechanism, wherein the machine learning mechanism is trained using health data, food data and measured biomarker responses to eating foods associated with a plurality of users and/or foods.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein more than one target biomarker is predicted.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the personalized nutrition recommendation includes generating one or more scores, rankings or classifications for at least a portion of the foods available from the food sources.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the food sources include one or more of a restaurant, a food delivery service, or a grocery store.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the combinations of foods evaluated include one or more recipes associated with ingredients available to the individual.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein preference data associated with the individual is considered when generating the recommendation.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the food sources or recommendations are selected with regard to a location of the individual.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein, when authorized by the individual, the recommendations are automatically shared with one or more of a restaurant, a food delivery service, or a grocery store.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the second food is a modification to the first food designed to make it healthier.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the recommendations are for a series of meals to be eaten at different occasions.
15. A system, comprising: a data ingestion service, including one or more processors, configured to receive food data associated with foods available from one or more food sources; receive health data associated with an individual, and a prediction service, including one or more processors, configured to access the food data associated with foods available from one or more food sources, access the health data associated with the individual, generate, based at least in part on the food data and the health data, first personalized nutrition data for the individual eating a first food or combination of foods from the food sources, generate, based at least in part on the food data and the health data, second personalized nutrition data for the individual eating a second food or combination of foods from the food sources, and a nutrition service, including one or more processors, configured to generate, based at least in part on the food data, the health data, the first personalized nutrition data and/or the second personalized nutrition data, a personalized nutrition recommendation for the individual that identifies a preference of the first food or combination of foods or the second food or combination of foods.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein receiving the food data includes accessing a digital image, and identifying at least one food item from an automated graphical analysis of the digital image.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the combinations of foods evaluated include one or more recipes associated with ingredients available to the individual, and wherein preference data associated with the individual is considered when generating the recommendation.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable instructions stored thereupon which, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to: access food data associated with foods available from one or more food sources; access health data associated with an individual; generate, based at least in part on the food data and the health data, first personalized nutrition data for the individual after eating a first food or combination of foods from the food sources; generate, based at least in part on the food data and the health data, second personalized nutrition data for the individual after eating a second food or combination of foods from the food sources; and generate, based at least in part on the food data, the health data, the first personalized nutrition data and/or the second personalized nutrition data, a personalized nutrition recommendation for the individual that identifies a preference of the first food or combination of foods or the second food or combination of foods.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the one or more of the first personalized nutrition data or the second personalized nutrition data include data indicating a value associated with a target biomarker predicted for the individual after eating the first food or combination of foods or the second food or combination of foods.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 34, wherein obtaining the food data includes accessing a digital image, and identifying at least one food item from an automated graphical analysis of the digital image.
</claims>
</document>
