<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Scinapsis Analytics Inc.
Scinapsis Analytics Inc. dba BenchSci
</assignee>

<inventors>
Chen, David Qixiang
Leung, Thomas Kai Him
Wianda, Elvis Mboumien
Sahoo, Anshuman
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70975819
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETERMINING EXPERIMENTS REPRESENTED BY IMAGES IN DOCUMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A method may include acquiring one or more image texts from an image of a document, segmenting the image into one or more sub-images using the one or more image texts, determining, by applying a machine learning model, one or more experimental techniques of one or more experiments for the one or more sub-images, and adding, to a knowledge base, one or more mappings of the one or more sub-images to the one or more experiments.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: acquiring one or more image texts from an image of a document; segmenting the image into one or more sub-images using the one or more image texts; determining, by applying a machine learning model, one or more experimental techniques of one or more experiments for the one or more sub-images; and adding, to a knowledge base, one or more mappings of the one or more sub-images to the one or more experiments.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining one or more bounding boxes within the image for the one or more sub-images.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: recognizing one or more sub-image labels in the one or more image texts; obtaining one or more bounding boxes within the image for the one or more image texts; and matching the one or more sub-images with the one or more sub-image labels using the one or more bounding boxes for the one or more sub-images and the one or more bounding boxes for the one or more sub-image labels.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: determining macromolecules and experimental contexts for the one or more experiments using the one or more image texts, the one or more bounding boxes for the one or more sub-images, and the one or more bounding boxes for the one or more image texts.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein recognizing the one or more sub-image labels in the one or more image texts comprises: identifying one or more sub-legend texts in legend text associated with the image; and associating the one or more sub-image labels with the one or more sub-legend texts.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, using body text of the document, materials for the one or more experiments.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: classifying, by the machine learning model, a sub-image of the one or more sub-images as a filter class; and in response to classifying the sub-image as the filter class, determining that the sub-image has no recognized experimental technique.
8. A system, comprising: a memory coupled to a computer processor; a repository configured to store: a document comprising an image comprising one or more image texts, a machine learning model, and a knowledge base; and an image analyzer, executing on the computer processor and using the memory, configured to: acquire the one or more image texts from the image, segment the image into one or more sub-images using the one or more image texts, determine, by applying the machine learning model, one or more experimental techniques of one or more experiments for the one or more sub-images, and add, to the knowledge base, one or more mappings of the one or more sub-images to the one or more experiments.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the image analyzer is further configured to: determine one or more bounding boxes within the image for the one or more sub-images.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the image analyzer is further configured to: recognize one or more sub-image labels in the one or more image texts; obtain one or more bounding boxes within the image for the one or more image texts; and match the one or more sub-images with the one or more sub-image labels using the one or more bounding boxes for the one or more sub-images and the one or more bounding boxes for the one or more sub-image labels.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the image analyzer is further configured to: determine macromolecules and experimental contexts for the one or more experiments using the one or more image texts, the one or more bounding boxes for the one or more sub-images, and the one or more bounding boxes for the one or more image texts.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the image analyzer is further configured to recognize the one or more sub-image labels in the one or more image texts by: identifying one or more sub-legend texts in legend text associated with the image; and associating the one or more sub-image labels with the one or more sub-legend texts.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the image analyzer is further configured to: determine, using body text of the document, materials for the one or more experiments.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the image analyzer is further configured to: classify, by the machine learning model, a sub-image of the one or more sub-images as a filter class; and in response to classifying the sub-image as the filter class, determine that the sub-image has no recognized experimental technique.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by a computer processor, perform: acquiring one or more image texts from an image of a document; segmenting the image into one or more sub-images using the one or more image texts; determining, by applying a machine learning model, one or more experimental techniques of one or more experiments for the one or more sub-images; and adding, to a knowledge base, one or more mappings of the one or more sub-images to the one or more experiments.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further perform: determining one or more bounding boxes within the image for the one or more sub-images.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions further perform: recognizing one or more sub-image labels in the one or more image texts; obtaining one or more bounding boxes within the image for the one or more image texts; and matching the one or more sub-images with the one or more sub-image labels using the one or more bounding boxes for the one or more sub-images and the one or more bounding boxes for the one or more sub-image labels.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the instructions further perform: determining macromolecules and experimental contexts for the one or more experiments using the one or more image texts, the one or more bounding boxes for the one or more sub-images, and the one or more bounding boxes for the one or more image texts.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein recognizing the one or more sub-image labels in the one or more image texts comprises: identifying one or more sub-legend texts in legend text associated with the image; and associating the one or more sub-image labels with the one or more sub-legend texts.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further perform: classifying, by the machine learning model, a sub-image of the one or more sub-images as a filter class; and in response to classifying the sub-image as the filter class, determining that the sub-image has no recognized experimental technique.
</claims>
</document>
