<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MKIT NORTH AMERICA INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMICELLI, Cristian
KATZ, Matias David
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67300977
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICE AND METHOD FOR SECURING A NETWORK CONNECTION
</title>

<abstract>
A network security device mediates communications between a client computing device and a network. The network security device includes a memory storing packet header verification rules defining parameters for structure and content of packet headers. The network security device further includes a communications interface to connect to the client computing device and the network. The network security device further includes a processor interconnected with the memory and the communications interface. The processor is configured to: in response to receiving an incoming packet from the network for transmission to the client computing device, extract an incoming header from the incoming packet. The processor is further configured to perform a verification of structure and content of the incoming header according to the packet header verification rules. The processor is further configured to: in response to a successful verification of the incoming header, transmit the incoming packet to the client computing device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A network security device to mediate communications between a client computing device and a network, the network security device comprising: a memory storing packet header verification rules defining parameters for structure and content of packet headers; a communications interface to connect to the client computing device and the network; and a processor interconnected with the memory and the communications interface, the processor configured to: in response to receiving an incoming packet from the network for transmission to the client computing device, extract an incoming header from the incoming packet; perform a verification of structure and content of the incoming header according to the packet header verification rules by: obtaining a current routing path by the incoming header of the incoming packet; determining whether one or more locations of the current routing path match locations on a restricted location list defined in the packet header verification rules; and when none of the locations of the current routing path match the locations on the restricted location list, determining that the verification of the incoming header is successful; and in response to a successful verification of the incoming header, transmit the incoming packet to the client computing device.
2. The network security device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to perform the verification of the incoming header by: obtaining a stored routing path from the memory; when the stored routing path and the current routing path are determined to include a threshold number of similar points, determining that the verification of the incoming header is successful, wherein the threshold number is defined in the packet header verification rules.
3. The network security device of claim 2, wherein the processor is further configured to: in response to a successful verification of the incoming header, store the current routing path in the memory.
4. (canceled)
5. The network security device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to perform the verification of the incoming header by: obtaining session information from the memory; obtaining a response sequence from the incoming header of the incoming packet; and when the response sequence corresponds to the session information, determining that the verification of the incoming header is successful.
6. The network security device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to perform the verification of the incoming header by: identifying communication protocols utilized in the structure of the incoming header; and when the identified communication protocols match baseline communication protocols defined in the packet header verification rules, determining that the verification of the incoming header is successful.
7. The network security device of claim 1, wherein, in response to a request from the client computing device to connect to the network, the processor is configured to: obtain network information; perform a preliminary verification on the network information based on preliminary verification rules stored in the memory; and in response to a successful preliminary verification, control the communications interface to connect to the network.
8. The network security device of claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to perform the preliminary verification by: identifying communication protocols utilized in the network; and verifying the identified communication protocols according to the preliminary verification rules.
9. The network security device of claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to perform the preliminary verification by: obtaining a network routing path and storing the network routing path in the memory; and verifying the network routing path according to the preliminary verification rules.
10. The network security device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: in response to receiving an outgoing packet from the client computing device for transmission to the network, extract an outgoing header from the outgoing packet; perform a verification of structure and content of the outgoing header according to the packet header verification rules; and in response to a successful verification of the outgoing header, transmit the outgoing packet to the network.
11. The network security device of claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to perform the verification of the outgoing header by: obtaining a current routing path from the outgoing header of the outgoing packet; determining whether one or more locations of the current routing path match locations on a restricted location list defined in the packet header verification rules; and when none of the locations of the current routing path match the locations on the restricted location list, determining that the verification of the outgoing header is successful.
12. The network security device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to perform a network usage verification by: obtaining stored network traffic volume data from the memory; detecting a current network traffic volume; determining whether the stored network traffic volume data and the current network traffic volume are within a threshold similarity; and when the determination is positive, determining that the verification is successful.
13. The network security device of claim 12, further comprising storing the current network traffic volume in the memory.
14. The network security device of claim 12, wherein the current network traffic volume comprises one or more of: traffic by individual ports, traffic to or from specified hosts, traffic to or from specified networks, and traffic to or from specified geographic regions.
15. The network security device of claim 12, wherein the processor determines whether the stored network traffic volume data and the current network traffic volume are within a threshold similarity based on one or more of: a percentage difference; and a standard deviation difference.
16. The network security device of claim 1, wherein the communications interface is further configured to utilize an encrypted communication protocol.
17. The network security device of claim 16, wherein the processor is further configured to: in response to a domain name system (DNS) request, retrieve a pre-stored address of a trusted domain name server from the memory; and control the communications interface to forward the DNS request to the trusted domain name server via the encrypted communication protocol.
18. The network security device of claim 16, wherein the processor is further configured to communicate with a centralized command center via the communications interface using the encrypted communication protocol.
19. The network security device of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to: in response to receipt of a disconnect command from the centralized command center, control the communications interface to disconnect from the network.
20. The network security device of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to: in response to receipt of a reset command from the centralized command center, reset the device to factory settings.
21. The network security device of claim 1, wherein the memory further stores a dashboard application executable by the client computing device.
22. The network security device of claim 21, wherein the processor is configured to: in response to an unsuccessful verification, provide an indication at the client computing device via the dashboard application.
23. The network security device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: in response to an unsuccessful verification, controlling the communications interface to disconnect from the network.
</claims>
</document>
