<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01H1/00,G01N29/14,G01N29/44
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AUGURY SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
NEGRI, ORI
RUDYK, EDUARD
SHAUL, GAL
YOSKOVITZ, SAAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61905252
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ACOUSTIC EMISSION MONITORING OF SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
A system for monitoring and identifying states of a semiconductor device, the system including at least one acoustic sensor for sensing acoustic emission emitted by at least one semiconductor device operating at a voltage of less than or equal to 220 V, the at least one acoustic sensor outputting at least one acoustic emission signal and a signal processing unit for receiving the at least one acoustic emission signal from the at least one acoustic sensor and for analyzing the at least one acoustic emission signal, the signal processing unit providing an output based on the analyzing, the output being indicative at least of whether the at least one semiconductor device is in an abnormal operating state with respect to a normal operating state of the semiconductor device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for monitoring and identifying states of a semiconductor device, the system comprising: at least one acoustic sensor for sensing acoustic emission emitted by at least one semiconductor device operating at a voltage of less than or equal to 220 V, said at least one acoustic sensor outputting at least one acoustic emission signal; and a signal processing unit for receiving said at least one acoustic emission signal from said at least one acoustic sensor and for analyzing said at least one acoustic emission signal, said signal processing unit providing an output based on said analyzing, said output being indicative at least of whether said at least one semiconductor device is in an abnormal operating state with respect to a normal operating state of said semiconductor device.
2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said normal operating state comprises a healthy state and said abnormal operating state comprises a defective state,
3. A system according to claim 1, wherein said normal operating state comprises a legitimate state and said abnormal operating state comprises an illegitimate state due to malicious interference in at least one of said at least one semiconductor device and at least one additional device cooperating therewith.
4. A system according to claim 1, wherein said analyzing at least comprises comparing said acoustic emission signal to at least one predetermined acoustic emission signal.
5. A system according to claim 4, wherein said analyzing at least comprises comparing said acoustic emission signal to at least one predetermined acoustic emission. threshold.
6. A system according to claim 4, wherein said at least one predetermined acoustic emission signal comprises at least one historical acoustic emission signal corresponding to at least one historical operating state of said semiconductor device.
7. A system according to claim 4, wherein said at least one predetermined acoustic emission signal comprises a collection of historical acoustic emission signals from a plurality of electronic devices having at least one shared electrical characteristic with said semiconductor device, said collection of historical acoustic emission signals corresponding to a collection of historical operating states of said plurality of electronic devices.
8. (canceled)
9. A system according to claim 6, wherein said analyzing comprises machine learning functionality.
10. A system according to claim 9, wherein said machine learning functionality is operative at least to extract features from a training set of historical acoustic emission signals from at least one additional electronic device having at least one shared electrical characteristic with said semiconductor device, said features extracted from said training set being associated with corresponding operational states of said at least one additional electronic device, and to identify said operating state of said semiconductor device based on correlations between said features extracted from said training set and features of said acoustic emission signal.
11. A system according to claim 10, wherein said training set of historical acoustic emission signals does not include historical acoustic emission signals from said semiconductor device.
12. A system according to claim 1 and also comprising at least one additional sensor measuring at least one additional parameter associated with said at least one semiconductor device, said analyzing comprising comparing said at least one additional parameter to said acoustic emission signal.
13. 13-16. (canceled)
17. A system according to claim 1, wherein said at least one semiconductor device comprises a field effect transistor,
18. 18-20. (canceled)
21. A method for monitoring and identifying states of a semiconductor device, the method comprising: sensing acoustic emission emitted by at least one semiconductor device operating at a voltage of less than or equal to 220 V; analyzing said acoustic emission; and providing an output based on said analyzing, said output being indicative at least of whether said at least one semiconductor device is in an abnormal operating state with respect to a normal operating state of said semiconductor device.
22. A method according to claim 21, wherein said normal operating state comprises a healthy state and said abnormal operating state comprises a defective state,
23. A method according to claim 21, wherein said normal operating state comprises a legitimate state and said abnormal operating state comprises an illegitimate state due to malicious interference in at least one of said at least one semiconductor device and at least one additional device cooperating therewith.
24. A method according to claim 21, wherein said analyzing at least comprises comparing said acoustic emission to at least one predetermined acoustic emission signal.
25. A method according to claim 24, wherein said analyzing at least comprises comparing said acoustic emission to at least one predetermined acoustic emission threshold,
26. A method according to claim 24, wherein said at least one predetermined acoustic emission signal comprises at least one historical acoustic emission signal corresponding to at least one historical operating state of said. semiconductor device.
27. A method according to claim 24, wherein said at least one predetermined acoustic emission signal comprises a collection of historical acoustic emission signals from a plurality of electronic devices having at least one shared electrical characteristic with said semiconductor device, said collection of historical acoustic emission signals corresponding to a collection of historical operating states of said plurality of electronic devices.
28. 28-31. (canceled)
32. A method according to claim 21 and also comprising measuring at least one additional parameter associated with said at least one semiconductor device, said analyzing comprising comparing measurements of said at least one additional parameter to said acoustic emission.
33. 33-146. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
