<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/00,H04N5/225,H04N5/235,H04N5/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON
</assignee>

<inventors>
ISE, YASUAKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650974
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE PROCESSING APPARATUS, IMAGE PROCESSING METHOD, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided with an image processing apparatus. An obtaining unit obtains a visible light image and an invisible light image of an imaging region. A first evaluation unit evaluates a brightness of the imaging region. A second evaluation unit evaluates noise in an object in the imaging region. A combining unit generates a combined image by combining the visible light image and the invisible light image. An output unit outputs either the combined image or the invisible light image in accordance with an evaluation result on the noise without outputting the visible light image in response to the brightness becoming lower than a first threshold during an operation of outputting the visible light image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image processing apparatus comprising: an obtaining unit configured to obtain a visible light image and an invisible light image of an imaging region; a first evaluation unit configured to evaluate a brightness of the imaging region; a second evaluation unit configured to evaluate noise in an object in the imaging region; a combining unit configured to generate a combined image by combining the visible light image and the invisible light image; and an output unit configured to output either the combined image or the invisible light image in accordance with an evaluation result on the noise without outputting the visible light image in response to the brightness becoming lower than a first threshold during an operation of outputting the visible light image.
2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the output unit is further configured to, in response to the brightness becoming lower than the first threshold during the operation of outputting the visible light image: determine whether a noise evaluation value indicating smallness of the noise is not less than a second threshold; output the combined image without outputting the visible light image if the noise evaluation value is not less than the second threshold; and output the invisible light image without outputting the visible light image if the noise evaluation value is less than the second threshold.
3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the output unit is further configured to select and output either the visible light image or the invisible light image in accordance with the evaluation result on the noise if the brightness is not less than a first threshold.
4. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the output unit is further configured to, when the brightness is not less than the first threshold: determine whether a noise evaluation value indicating smallness of the noise is not less than a third threshold; output the visible light image if the noise evaluation value is not less than the third threshold; and output the invisible light image if the noise evaluation value is less than the third threshold.
5. The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the third threshold is set in accordance with a type of the object.
6. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the second evaluation unit is further configured to evaluate noise in the object in consideration of a size of an image of the imaged object or a spatial frequency of an image of the imaged object.
7. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the second evaluation unit is further configured to obtain information designating the object.
8. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first evaluation unit is further configured to evaluate the brightness by using the visible light image or the combined image, and the second evaluation unit is further configured to evaluate the noise by using the visible light image or the combined image.
9. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the combining unit is further configured to start or stop generation of the combined image in accordance with at least one of the brightness and the noise.
10. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an imaging unit configured to capture the visible light image and the invisible light image of the imaging region.
11. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the imaging unit is further configured to start or stop capturing the invisible light image in accordance with at least one of the brightness and the noise.
12. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the imaging unit comprises an irradiation unit configured to perform irradiation with invisible light, and is further configured to control the irradiation with the invisible light in accordance with at least one of the brightness and the noise.
13. An image processing method comprising: obtaining a visible light image and an invisible light image of an imaging region; evaluating a brightness of the imaging region; evaluating noise in an object in the imaging region; generating a combined image by combining the visible light image and the invisible light image; and outputting either the combined image or the invisible light image in accordance with an evaluation result on the noise without outputting the visible light image in response to the brightness becoming lower than a first threshold during an operation of outputting the visible light image.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the outputting includes, in response to the brightness becoming lower than the first threshold during the operation of outputting the visible light image: determining whether a noise evaluation value indicating smallness of the noise is not less than a second threshold; outputting the combined image without outputting the visible light image if the noise evaluation value is not less than the second threshold; and outputting the invisible light image without outputting the visible light image if the noise evaluation value is less than the second threshold.
15. The method according to claim 13, wherein the outputting includes selecting and outputting either the visible light image or the invisible light image in accordance with the evaluation result on the noise if the brightness is not less than a first threshold.
16. The method according to claim 15, wherein the outputting includes, when the brightness is not less than the first threshold: determining whether a noise evaluation value indicating smallness of the noise is not less than a third threshold; outputting the visible light image if the noise evaluation value is not less than the third threshold; and outputting the invisible light image if the noise evaluation value is less than the third threshold.
17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the third threshold is set in accordance with a type of the object.
18. The method according to claim 13, wherein the evaluating the noise in the object is performed in consideration of a size of an image of the imaged object or a spatial frequency of an image of the imaged object.
19. The method according to claim 13, further comprising obtaining information designating the object.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing a program which, when executed by a computer comprising a processor and a memory, causes the computer to perform: obtaining a visible light image and an invisible light image of an imaging region; evaluating a brightness of the imaging region; evaluating noise in an object in the imaging region; generating a combined image by combining the visible light image and the invisible light image; and outputting either the combined image or the invisible light image in accordance with an evaluation result on the noise without outputting the visible light image in response to the brightness becoming lower than a first threshold during an operation of outputting the visible light image.
</claims>
</document>
