<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/042,A61B5/053,A61B5/145,A61B7/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHRISTOPHERSON, MARK ALAN
NI, QUAN
SOYKAN, Orhan
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHRISTOPHERSON, MARK ALAN
NI, QUAN
SOYKAN, Orhan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046824
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Efficient Monitoring, Recording, and Analyzing of Physiological Signals
</title>

<abstract>
A novel implantable device to reliably record and transmit physiological signals from a subject was described. Design of the device to capture the signals, compress them, transmit via multiple techniques and to interpret the data are shown. Furthermore, the design and operation of the device in a typical setting are taught and the resulting implementation is presented.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method monitoring a physiological signal of a patient, comprising: sensing, from a subcutaneous implant location with an implantable medical device, a physiological signal of the patient; capturing, by the implantable medical device, the physiological signal and storing data representing the captured physiological signal to memory of the implantable medical device; transmitting, by the implantable medical device for receipt by a device external of the body of the patient, the data representing the captured physiological signal via a Galvanic communications link between the implantable medical device and the device external of the body of the patient, wherein body tissue of the patient serves as a conductive medium for the transmission of the data representing the captured physiological signal.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the data representing the captured physiological signal is transmitted without using radio frequency telemetry, and without using a radio frequency antenna.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the data representing the captured physiological signal is transmitted without modulating the data representing the captured physiological signal onto a carrier wave.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein a first electrode and a second electrode are used to capture the physiological signal, and wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are further used to transmit the data representing the captured physiological signal via the Galvanic communications link.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein a first electrode and a second electrode are used to capture the physiological signal, and wherein at least one of the first electrode and the second electrode is further used to transmit the data representing the captured physiological signal via the Galvanic communications link.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the memory of the implantable medical device comprises a memory device with at least five megabytes of storage capacity.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein a first electrode and a second electrode are used to capture the physiological signal, wherein at least one of the first electrode and the second electrode is further used to transmit the data representing the captured physiological signal via the Galvanic communications link, wherein the data representing the captured physiological signal and transmitted via the Galvanic communications link comprises at least five megabytes of data.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the data representing the captured physiological signal and transmitted via the Galvanic communications link and comprising at least five megabytes of data is transmitted via the Galvanic communications link over a single communications session.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the implantable medical device continuously senses and captures the physiological signal over a period of at least four hours, wherein data stored to the memory of the implantable medical device represents the continuously captured physiological signal over the period of at least four hours, and wherein the data transmitted via the Galvanic communications link comprises the data that represents the continuously captured physiological signal over the period of at least four hours.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising, detecting, by the implantable medical device, an abnormality in the captured physiological signal, and transmitting, via radio frequency telemetry for receipt by a second device external of the body of the patient, data representing the captured physiological signal and the abnormality.
11. (canceled)
12. A system for monitoring a physiological signal of a patient, comprising: an implantable medical device and a device external of the body of the patient; wherein the implantable medical device is configured to: sense, from a subcutaneous implant location, a physiological signal of the patient; capture the physiological signal and store data representing the captured physiological signal to memory of the implantable medical device; and transmit, for receipt by the device external of the body of the patient, the data representing the captured physiological signal via a Galvanic communications link between the implantable medical device and the device external of the body of the patient, wherein body tissue of the patient serves as a conductive medium for the transmission of the data representing the captured physiological signal; wherein the device external of the body of the patient is configured to: receive, from the implantable medical device, the data representing the captured physiological signal via the Galvanic communications link between the implantable medical device and the device external of the body of the patient; analyze the data representing the captured physiological signal using an algorithm selected from the group consisting of a machine learning algorithm and an artificial intelligence algorithm; and provide, to the implantable medical device based on a result from the analysis of the data representing the captured physiological signal, a parameter that the implantable medical device can use to adjust an operation on the implantable medical device.
13. (canceled)
14. (canceled)
15. (canceled)
16. (canceled)
17. (canceled)
18. (canceled)
19. (canceled)
20. The system of claim 12, wherein the implantable medical device continuously senses and captures the physiological signal over a period of at least four hours, wherein data stored to the memory of the implantable medical device represents the continuously captured physiological signal over the period of at least four hours, and wherein the data transmitted via the Galvanic communications link comprises the data that represents the continuously captured physiological signal over the period of at least four hours.
21. The system of claim 12, wherein the implantable medical device is further configured to detect an abnormality in the captured physiological signal, and transmit, via radio frequency telemetry for receipt by a second device external of the body of the patient, data representing the captured physiological signal and the abnormality.
22. (canceled)
23. The system of claim 12, wherein the device external of the body of the patient is further configured to receive an input that specifies a clinical event, and wherein the analyzing the data representing the captured physiological signal includes consideration of the received input that specifies a clinical event.
24. The system of claim [24] 12, wherein the input that specifies a clinical event is received from the patient or a physician.
25. (canceled)
26. A system for monitoring a physiological signal of a patient, comprising: an implantable medical device, a device external of the body of the patient, and a remote computing device; wherein the implantable medical device is configured to: sense, from a subcutaneous implant location, a physiological signal of the patient; capture the physiological signal and store data representing the captured physiological signal to memory of the implantable medical device; and transmit, for receipt by the device external of the body of the patient, the data representing the captured physiological signal via a Galvanic communications link between the implantable medical device and the device external of the body of the patient, wherein body tissue of the patient serves as a conductive medium for the transmission of the data representing the captured physiological signal; wherein the device external of the body of the patient is configured to: receive, from the implantable medical device, the data representing the captured physiological signal via the Galvanic communications link between the implantable medical device and the device external of the body of the patient; and transmit, for receipt by the remote computing device, the data representing the captured physiological signal; wherein the remote computing device is configured to: receive, from the device external of the body of the patient, the data representing the captured physiological signal; analyze the data representing the captured physiological signal using an algorithm selected from the group consisting of a machine learning algorithm and an artificial intelligence algorithm; and provide, to the implantable medical device based on a result from the analysis of the data representing the captured physiological signal, a parameter that the implantable medical device can use to adjust an operation on the implantable medical device.
27. (canceled)
28. (canceled)
29. (canceled)
30. The system of claim 26, wherein the remote computing device is configured to, using the algorithm selected from the group consisting of a machine learning algorithm and an artificial intelligence algorithm, use data associated with a population of patients, and wherein the remote computing device is further configured to provide, to the implantable medical device based on a result from the analysis of the data representing the captured physiological signal and the data associated with the population of patients, a parameter that the implantable medical device can use to adjust an operation on the implantable medical device.
31. (canceled)
32. (canceled)
33. (canceled)
34. (canceled)
35. (canceled)
36. (canceled)
37. (canceled)
38. (canceled)
39. (canceled)
40. (canceled)
41. The machine learning algorithm of claim 26 is used for the determination of thresholds for triggering alarms based on population data or patient specific data.
42. (canceled)
43. [Thresholds of claims 41 and 42 are used for the generation of alarms that are indicative of worsening conditions that are specific for the disease condition of the patient.]
44. (canceled)
45. Thresholds of claim [s 41 and] 41 are based on one or more of electrical impedance, auscultation, tissue oxygenation, electrogram and acceleration.
</claims>
</document>
