<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-08-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F1/18,A63F3/00,G06Q50/34,G07F17/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ANGEL PLAYING CARDS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHIGETA, YASUSHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57943118
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FRAUD DETECTION SYSTEM IN A CASINO
</title>

<abstract>
A fraud detection system which detects fraud in a game of performing collection and redemption of chips in accordance with a win or lose result includes a camera which captures an image of chips contained in a chip tray of a dealer, an image analyzing apparatus which analyses the image captured by the camera to detect an amount of the chips contained in the chip tray, a card distribution device which determines a win or lose result of a game, and a control device which compares the win or lose result of the game and the amount of the chips contained in the chip tray before and after collection and redemption of the chips to detect fraud.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A management system comprising: a camera system including at least one camera, the at least one camera is positioned raised from a top surface of a game table and oriented so that a respective direction from the camera to a respective focal point of the camera is oblique relative to the top surface of the game table, wherein the camera system is configured to record a progress of each of one or more of a plurality of games played at the game table as a respective set of one or more images generated by the at least one camera; and a control device, wherein the control device is configured to: perform image analysis on the respective sets of one or more images to recognize respective positions, types, and numbers of chips on the game table wagered in the respective one or more of the plurality of games; perform the recognizing of the respective positions, types, and numbers of the chips in the respective one or more of the plurality of games using artificial intelligence technology or machine learning technology; and recognize an amount and history of the wagered chips at timings of each lapse of a predetermined number of the plurality of games.
2. The management system according to claim 1, wherein: the game table includes a plurality of predefined betting areas; and the recognition of the positions of the chips on the game table includes identifying in which respective ones of the plurality of predefined betting areas the respective chips are positioned.
3. The management system according to claim 2, wherein the recognition of the respective positions of the respective chips in the respective predefined betting areas is performed using the artificial intelligence technology or machine learning technology based on a respective viewing angle of the at least one camera.
4. The management system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one camera includes a plurality of cameras.
5. The management system according to claim 1, wherein the control device is configured to: recognize respective amounts of increase/decrease of chips in the respective games calculated from a win or lose result of the respective game; recognize a respective history within the respective game; and recognize a respective history of win or lose and amounts of income/expenditure at the timings of each lapse of the predetermined number of the plurality of games.
6. The management system according to claim 5, further comprising a win or lose result determining device, wherein the win or lose result determining device is configured to determine the respective win or lose result of the respective games used by the control device for the calculation.
7. The management system according to claim 1, wherein the control device is configured to: identify a strange situation in which an amount of the wagered chips, a winning amount, and/or a win and lose history is strange compared to statistical data; and output an indication of the identified strange situation.
8. The management system according to claim 7, wherein the strange situation is at least one of: 1) a situation in which the winning amount is more than a predetermined amount; 2) a situation in which a state, in which an amount of the wagered chips at a time of loss is small and an amount of the wagered chips at a win time is large, continues for several games in a manner that is statistically anomalous compared with statistical data; 3) a situation in which an actual winning amount is strange compared to an average winning amount statistically expected based on a history of wagered amounts; 4) a situation in which a respective position of the wagered chips and a respective amount of the chips that obtained by a player are strange compared with statistical data; or 5) a situation in which a winning rate when an amount of the wagered chips is more than a predetermined amount is strange compared with statistical data.
9. The management system according to claim 1, wherein: the chips whose respective positions, types, and number the control device is configured to recognize are wagered by one or more players placed at respective playing positions of the game table, in the respective one or more of the plurality of games; and the control device is configured to identify each of the one or more players and associate the recognized positions, types, and numbers of the chips with the respective identified one or more players.
10. The management system according to claim 9, wherein the identification of the each of the one or more players includes providing each of the one or more players with a respective identification number.
11. The management system according to claim 10, wherein the control device is configured to associate respective ones of the chips on the game table with the respective identification numbers of the respective players who bet the respective chips.
12. The management system according to claim 9, wherein the control device is configured to perform the recognition of the amount and history of the wagered chips respectively for each of the one or more players.
13. The management system according to claim 12, wherein the control device is further configured to recognize a total amount and history of the wagered chips in the one or more of the plurality of games.
14. The management system according to claim 9, wherein the identification of the each of the one or more players by the control device includes extracting respective face images of the players, from the respective sets of the one or more image, using the artificial intelligence technology or machine learning technology.
15. The management system according to claim 9, wherein the control device is configured to: recognize respective amounts of increase/decrease of chips of the respective players in the respective games calculated from a win or lose result of the respective game; recognize a respective history within the respective games; and recognize a respective history of win or lose and amounts of income/expenditure of the respective players at the timings of each lapse of the predetermined number of the plurality of games.
16. The management system according to claim 15, further comprising a win or lose result determining device which determines the respective win or lose result of each of the plurality of games used by the control device for the calculation.
17. The management system according to claim 1, wherein the control device is configured to: identify an individual one of the identified players as being in a strange situation in which an amount of the wagered chips, a winning amount, and/or a win and lose history is strange compared to statistical data; and output an indication of an existence of the identified individual player being in the strange situation.
18. The management system according to claim 17, wherein the strange situation is at least one of: 1) a situation in which the winning amount is more than a predetermined amount; 2) a situation in which a state, in which an amount of the wagered chips at a time of loss is small and an amount of the wagered chips at a win time is large, continues for several games in a manner that is statistically anomalous compared with statistical data; 3) a situation in which an actual winning amount of a respective player of the one or more players is strange compared to an average winning amount statistically expected based on history of wagered amounts; 4) a situation in which a respective position of the chips wagered by a respective one of the players and a respective amount of the chips obtained by the respective player are strange compared with statistical data; or 5) a situation in which a winning rate when an amount of the wagered chips is more than a predetermined amount is strange compared with statistical data.
19. The management system according to claim 1, wherein the game table includes a plurality of predefined sitting positions which the management system is configured to associate with respective players.
20. The management system according to claim 19, wherein the control device is configured to perform the recognition of the positions, types, and numbers of the chips respectively for each of sitting positions, associating respective ones of the chips with respective ones of the sitting positions.
21. The management system according to claim 20, wherein a first one of the sitting positions is closer to the at least one camera than a second one of the sitting positions, and the control device is configured to perform the recognition of the respective positions, types, and numbers of the chips even when chips in the second one of the sitting positions are at least partially obscured from view of the at least one camera by chips in the first one of the sitting positions.
22. The management system according to claim 1, wherein the recognition of the respective positions, types, and numbers of the chips occurs even if chips in a first area of the game table are at least partially obscured from view of the at least one camera by chips in a second area of the game that is closer to the at least one camera than the first area of the game table.
23. The management system according to claim 1, wherein the control device is configured to perform the recognition of the respective positions, types, and numbers of the chips even when the chips are arranged in a plurality of stacks one behind another in a depth direction from the at least one camera.
24. A management system comprising: a camera system including at least one camera, the at least one camera is positioned raised from a top surface of a game table and oriented so that a respective direction from the camera to a respective focal point of the camera is oblique relative to the top surface of the game table, wherein the camera system is configured to record a progress of each of one or more of a plurality of games played at the game table as a respective set of one or more images generated by the at least one camera; and an image analyzing apparatus, wherein the image analyzing apparatus is configured to perform image analysis on the respective sets of one or more images of the recorded progress of the respective games; and a control device; wherein the control device is configured to: recognize respective positions, types, and numbers of chips on the game table wagered in the respective one or more of the plurality of games, the recognition being through use of the image analyzing apparatus; perform the recognizing of the respective positions, types, and numbers of the chips in the respective one or more of the plurality of games using artificial intelligence technology or machine learning technology; and recognize an amount and history of the wagered chips at timings of each lapse of a predetermined number of the plurality of games.
25. A management system comprising: a game recorder; and a processor; wherein: the game recorder includes at least one camera; the at least one camera is positioned raised from a top surface of a game table and oriented so that a respective direction from the camera to a respective focal point of the camera is oblique relative to the top surface of the game table; the game recorder is configured to record a progress of each of one or more of a plurality of games played at the game table as a respective set of one or more images generated by the at least one camera; and the processor is configured to: use artificial intelligence technology or machine learning technology to perform image analysis on the respective sets of one or more images to identify respective positions, types, and amounts of wagered chips on the game table; and determine a respective total amount of chips wagered in each of the plurality of games and a respective history of the wagering of the chips at timings when each set of a predetermined number of the plurality of games have elapsed.
</claims>
</document>
