<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B17/27,H04B17/345,H04B17/382,H04B17/391,H04W12/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VMWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANEMOGIANNIS, ALEXANDRAS
GUDIPATI, ADITYA
HARIHARAN, SRIKANTH
RAJA, ADNAN
SHARMA, MANU
SINGH, SARABJOT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68838785
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MOBILE NETWORK INTERFERENCE ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for providing information describing mobile network interference experienced by a mobile network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A method performed by an interference analysis system, the method comprising: accessing mobile network telemetry data generated by at least one infrastructure element of a mobile network, the telemetry data including at least time-frequency characteristic data for each of a plurality of base stations of the mobile network; with a trained interference detection model that detects interference from a set of time-frequency characteristic data, detecting interference of at least one base station by using at least the accessed time-frequency characteristic data; generating interference information based on the detected interference; generating a control parameter that, when implemented by at least one of an operator device or the at least one infrastructure element of the mobile network, reduces the interference detected based on that operator device or at least one infrastructure element; and providing the control parameter to at least one of the operator device or the at least one infrastructure element, wherein the at least one of the operator device or the at least one infrastructure element implements a change based on the control parameter.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the at least one infrastructure element includes a base station, and wherein the control parameter causes the base station to increase a radio transmission power level.
23. The method of claim 21, further comprising generating a spatial heatmap that is displayed on a user interface of the operator device.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the spatial heatmap comprises a visual representation of a rank ordered set of polygons representing a closed geographical region for a probable interference source location.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein the spatial heatmap comprises different colors corresponding to different levels of probability for potential interference source locations.
26. The method of claim 21, further comprising generating an interference analysis dashboard that is displayed on a user interface of the operator device, wherein the interference analysis dashboard comprises at least one of: information regarding timestamps of interference events, unique alert identifiers to the events, an impact on the session for the user device, a start time and end time of interference, a root cause for the event, and corrective actions for mitigating the interference.
27. The method of claim 21, further comprising, with a trained Angle of Arrival ("AoA") estimator, determining an interference source probability for at least one geographic location by using at least the power levels determined by a power level feature extractor.
28. A system comprising: an interference analysis system communicatively coupled to at least one of a plurality of mobile network infrastructure elements; and an operator device communicatively coupled to the interference analysis system, wherein the interference analysis system is configured to: access mobile network telemetry data generated by at least one of the plurality of mobile network infrastructure elements, the telemetry data including at least time-frequency characteristic data for each of a plurality of base stations of the mobile network; with a trained interference detection model that detects interference from a set of time-frequency characteristic data, detecting interference of at least one base station by using at least the accessed time-frequency characteristic data; generating interference information based on the detected interference; generating a control parameter that, when implemented by at least one of the operator device or the at least one of the plurality of mobile infrastructure elements, reduces the interference detected; and providing the control parameter to at least one of the operator device or the at least one of the plurality of mobile network infrastructure elements, wherein the at least one of the operator device or the at least one of the plurality of mobile network infrastructure elements implements a change based on the control parameter.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the at least one of the plurality of mobile network infrastructure elements includes a base station, and wherein the control parameter causes the base station to increase a radio transmission power level.
30. The system of claim 28, wherein the interference analysis system further generates a spatial heatmap that is displayed on a user interface of the operator device.
31. The system of claim 30, wherein the spatial heatmap comprises a visual representation of a rank ordered set of polygons representing a closed geographical region for a probable interference source location.
32. The system of claim 30, wherein the spatial heatmap comprises different colors corresponding to different levels of probability for potential interference source locations.
33. The system of claim 28, wherein the interference analysis system further generates an interference analysis dashboard that is displayed on a user interface of the operator device, wherein the interference analysis dashboard comprises at least one of: information regarding timestamps of interference events, unique alert identifiers to the events, an impact on the session for the user device, a start time and end time of interference, a root cause for the event, and corrective actions for mitigating the interference
34. The system of claim 28, wherein the interference analysis system further comprises a trained Angle of Arrival ("AoA") estimator that determines an interference source probability for at least one geographic location by using at least the power levels determined by a power level feature extractor.
35. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by an interference analysis system having a hardware processor and memory store, cause the interference analysis system to perform stages comprising: accessing mobile network telemetry data generated by at least one infrastructure element of a mobile network, the telemetry data including at least time-frequency characteristic data for each of a plurality of base stations of the mobile network; with a trained interference detection model that detects interference from a set of time-frequency characteristic data, detecting interference of at least one base station by using at least the accessed time-frequency characteristic data; generating interference information based on the detected interference; generating a control parameter that, when implemented by at least one of an operator device or the at least one infrastructure element of the mobile network, reduces the interference detected based on that operator device or at least one infrastructure element; and providing the control parameter to at least one of the operator device or the at least one infrastructure element, wherein the at least one of the operator device or the at least one infrastructure element implements a change based on the control parameter.
36. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 35, wherein the at least one infrastructure element includes a base station, and wherein the control parameter causes the base station to increase a radio transmission power level.
37. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 35, the stages further comprising generating a spatial heatmap that is displayed on a user interface of the operator device
38. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 37, wherein the spatial heatmap comprises a visual representation of a rank ordered set of polygons representing a closed geographical region for a probable interference source location.
39. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 37, wherein the spatial heatmap comprises different colors corresponding to different levels of probability for potential interference source locations.
40. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 35, the stages further comprising generating an interference analysis dashboard that is displayed on a user interface of the operator device, wherein the interference analysis dashboard comprises at least one of: information regarding timestamps of interference events, unique alert identifiers to the events, an impact on the session for the user device, a start time and end time of interference, a root cause for the event, and corrective actions for mitigating the interference.
</claims>
</document>
