<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F16/903
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOLE, BRYN R.
ENGLISH, JENNIFER A.
KOSSARIAN, MALOUS M.
SHYR, HARMONY Y.
KERNASOVSKIY, DMITRIY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60330188
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CATEGORICALLY FILTERING SEARCH RESULTS
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method according to one embodiment includes receiving a search query; determining a first set of categories associated with the search query, including performing a reverse lookup for the search query using a dynamic inference map in order to determine the first set of categories, where each category of the first set of categories includes one or more words that describe one or more aspects of the search query; determining a second set of categories associated with preliminary results of the search query; and filtering the preliminary results of the search query, including removing a subset of the preliminary results of the search query based on a comparison of the first set of categories to the second set of categories.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving a search query; determining a first set of categories associated with the search query, including performing a reverse lookup for the search query using a dynamic inference map in order to determine the first set of categories, where each category of the first set of categories includes one or more words that describe one or more aspects of the search query; determining a second set of categories associated with preliminary results of the search query; and filtering the preliminary results of the search query, including removing a subset of the preliminary results of the search query based on a comparison of the first set of categories to the second set of categories.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the second set of categories associated with preliminary results of the search query includes: identifying the preliminary results of the search query by performing a search utilizing the search query and a search index, extracting textual data from each of the preliminary results of the search query by crawling the preliminary results of the search query, identifying one or more key words within the extracted textual data, utilizing latent dirichlet allocation (LDA) analysis, and mapping the one or more key words onto a predetermined set of categories to determine the second set of categories.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the first set of categories includes: categorizing one or more words within the search query, wherein each category of the first set of categories has an associated confidence score indicating a strength of a match between the category and the search query.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein filtering the preliminary results of the search query includes: ranking each of the preliminary results of the search query according to matching categories and associated confidence levels determined between the first set of categories and the second set of categories, and returning a predetermined number of the ranked preliminary results.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein filtering the preliminary results includes: comparing the first set of categories to the second set of categories to determine matching categories, where each of the matching categories includes an associated confidence score, determining an overall match score for each the preliminary results of the search query, utilizing to the matching categories and the associated confidence score for each of the matching categories, and for each of the preliminary results of the search query, returning the preliminary result in response to determining that the overall match score for the preliminary result exceeds a threshold.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the first set of categories associated with the search query include a slash tag unique to a predetermined subject, the slash tag including a grouping of identifiers of locations of a plurality of documents.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein filtering the preliminary results includes returning each of the preliminary results of the search query only if its overall match score exceeds a predetermined threshold.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the second set of categories associated with preliminary results of the search query includes extracting textual data from each of the preliminary results of the search query, where: the preliminary results of the search query include a plurality of URLs, and the textual data extracted includes data extracted from a plurality of web pages pointed to by the plurality of URLs.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein determining the second set of categories associated with preliminary results of the search query includes determining a plurality of key words from the textual data, utilizing latent dirichlet allocation (LDA) analysis.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein determining the second set of categories associated with preliminary results of the search query includes mapping the plurality of key words to a predetermined set of categories, where each of the plurality of key words maps to one or more categories of the predetermined set of categories.
11. A computer program product for categorically filtering search results, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: receiving a search query, utilizing the processor; determining, utilizing the processor, a first set of categories associated with the search query, including performing a reverse lookup for the search query using a dynamic inference map in order to determine the first set of categories, where each category of the first set of categories includes one or more words that describe one or more aspects of the search query; determining, utilizing the processor, a second set of categories associated with preliminary results of the search query; and filtering, utilizing the processor, the preliminary results of the search query, including removing a subset of the preliminary results of the search query based on a comparison of the first set of categories to the second set of categories.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein determining the first set of categories includes: categorizing, utilizing the processor, one or more words within the search query, wherein each category of the first set of categories has an associated confidence score indicating a strength of a match between the category and the search query.
13. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein a confidence level is associated with each category within the first set of categories.
14. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein determining the second set of categories associated with preliminary results of the search query includes identifying the preliminary results of the search query by performing a search utilizing the search query.
15. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein filtering the preliminary results includes removing a subset of the preliminary results of the search query according to a comparison of the first set of categories to the second set of categories.
16. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein filtering the preliminary results includes determining an overall match score for each of the preliminary results of the search query.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein filtering the preliminary results includes returning each of the preliminary results of the search query only if its overall match score exceeds a predetermined threshold.
18. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein determining the second set of categories associated with preliminary results of the search query includes extracting textual data from each of the preliminary results of the search query.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein determining the second set of categories associated with preliminary results of the search query includes determining a plurality of key words from the textual data, utilizing latent dirichlet allocation (LDA) analysis.
20. A system, comprising: a processor; and logic integrated with the processor, executable by the processor, or integrated with and executable by the processor, the logic being configured to: receive a search query; determine a first set of categories associated with the search query, including performing a reverse lookup for the search query using a dynamic inference map in order to determine the first set of categories, where each category of the first set of categories includes one or more words that describe one or more aspects of the search query; determine a second set of categories associated with preliminary results of the search query; and filter the preliminary results of the search query, including removing a subset of the preliminary results of the search query based on a comparison of the first set of categories to the second set of categories.
</claims>
</document>
