<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/12,H04W48/16,H04W76/11,H04W8/00,H04W8/26,H04W84/12,H04W88/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAHM, CHEULHEE
YOON, SUKUN
KIM, JINHO
LEE, MINJU
YU, GEUNYOUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69953901
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC APPARATUS AND CONTROL METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic apparatus includes: a first communication circuit configured to perform wireless communication in a first mode; a second communication circuit configured to perform wireless communication with an access point in a second mode; and a processor configured to control the electronic apparatus to: obtain first identification information for a first mode-based wireless communication of an external apparatus through the first communication circuit, obtain address information for a second mode-based wireless communication of the external apparatus through the first communication circuit, obtain second identification information for the second mode-based wireless communication of the external apparatus through the second communication circuit using the obtained address, identify whether communication connection with the external apparatus is established through the first communication circuit or the second communication circuit based on the obtained first identification information, address information and second identification information, and perform an operation based on whether the communication connection with the external apparatus is established.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic apparatus comprising: a first communication circuit configured to perform wireless communication in a first mode; a second communication circuit configured to perform wireless communication with an access point in a second mode; and a processor configured to control the electronic apparatus to: obtain first identification information for a first mode-based wireless communication of an external apparatus through the first communication circuit, obtain address information for a second mode-based wireless communication of the external apparatus through the first communication circuit, obtain second identification information for the second mode-based wireless communication of the external apparatus through the second communication circuit using the obtained address, identify whether a communication connection with the external apparatus is established through the first communication circuit or the second communication circuit, based on the obtained first identification information, address information and second identification information, and perform an operation based on whether the communication connection with the external apparatus is established.
2. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first mode-based wireless communication comprises Bluetooth communication complying with institute of electrical and electronic engineers (IEEE) 802.15 standards, and the second mode-based wireless communication comprises a wireless local area network (WLAN) communication complying with IEEE 802.11 standards.
3. The electronic apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the first identification information for the first mode-based wireless communication comprises medium access control (MAC) address information for Bluetooth communication, and the second identification information for the second mode-based wireless communication comprises MAC address information for WLAN communication.
4. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the address information for the second mode-based wireless communication comprises an Internet protocol (IP) address.
5. The electronic apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to: transmit, in a broadcast mode, a request for the second identification information based on the IP address to a plurality of external apparatuses connected to the access point, and receive a response comprising the second identification information from the external apparatus corresponding to the IP address among the plurality of external apparatuses through the second communication circuit.
6. The electronic apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to: store a record that the response comprising the second identification information has not been received, and periodically transmit the request based on the stored record.
7. The electronic apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to: transmit the request corresponding to the access point connected through the second communication circuit based on the IP address, the IP address being the same as an IP address of an access point to which the external apparatus is connected, and update the records of the external apparatus.
8. The electronic apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to: obtain identification information of an access point to which the external apparatus is connected from the external apparatus through the first communication circuit, and identify whether the access point based on the obtained identification information is the same as the access point connected through the second communication circuit.
9. The electronic apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to: transmit, in a unicast mode, a request for the second identification information based on the IP address to the external apparatus through the second communication circuit, based on the second identification information obtained through the first communication circuit, and identify that the external apparatus is within a specified proximity of the electronic apparatus based on the response received from the external apparatus.
10. The electronic apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: identify whether the IP address corresponding to the obtained second identification information has been changed, and reobtain a changed IP address by scanning the IP addresses within an address range of a subnet network, based on a change in the IP address.
11. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: display an image based on identification of a communication connection with the external apparatus, and stop displaying the image based on identification of a communication disconnection from the external apparatus while displaying the image.
12. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first mode comprises one-to-one communication without using the access point, wherein the first mode has a shorter communication range than the second mode.
13. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to establish a communication connection using the second communication circuit based on disconnection of communication connection using the first communication circuit.
14. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to: transmit a guide message for accessing the access point to the external apparatus through the first communication circuit based on not obtaining the second identification information while a communication connection using the first communication circuit is possible.
15. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein, based on not obtaining the second identification information while being connected to a certain access point among a plurality of access points through the second communication circuit, the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to obtain the second identification information by accessing another access point among the plurality of access points.
16. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to obtain the IP address from the external apparatus through the first communication circuit.
17. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to: transmit the first identification information to a server through the second communication circuit, and receive the IP address corresponding to the first identification information from the server through the second communication circuit.
18. A method of controlling an electronic apparatus, comprising: obtaining first identification information for first mode-based wireless communication of an external apparatus through a first communication circuit configured to perform wireless communication in a first mode; obtaining address information for second mode-based wireless communication of the external apparatus through the first communication circuit; obtaining second identification information for second mode-based wireless communication of the external apparatus through a second communication circuit using the obtained address, through a second communication circuit configured to perform wireless communication with an access point in a second mode; identifying whether communication connection with the external apparatus is established through the first communication circuit or the second communication circuit, based on the obtained first identification information, address information and second identification information; and performing an operation based on whether the communication connection with the external apparatus is established.
19. The method according to claim 18, wherein the first mode-based wireless communication comprises Bluetooth communication complying with institute of electrical and electronic engineers (IEEE) 802.15 standards, and the second mode-based wireless communication comprises a wireless local area network (WLAN) communication complying with IEEE 802.11 standards.
20. The method according to claim 18, wherein the address information for the second mode-based wireless communication comprises an Internet protocol (IP) address.
</claims>
</document>
