<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PLAYTIKA
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAIZERMAN, IDAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70551884
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Adaptive In-Application Physical Product Offers
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for addressing the needs of application users such as players of social games or online games. One of the methods includes: receiving a user request to start a session in gaming software, the user request coming from a first user having a first account, the gaming software configured to provide an offer for a physical product; providing, to the gaming software, an offer for a physical product for display at a specified time by the user interface of the user device, wherein the offer and specified time are determined based at least in part on historical activity of the first account including start times and associated durations of prior gaming software sessions of the first account; detecting a user interaction with the offer for the physical product, and in response to the detection, taking an action in a process of ordering the physical product.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprises: one or more computers and one or more storage devices on which are stored instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: receiving a user request to start a session in gaming software, the user request coming from a first user having a first account, the gaming software configured to run on a user device and configured to provide, via a user interface of the user device, an offer for a physical product; providing, to the gaming software, an offer for a physical product for display at a specified time by the user interface of the user device, wherein the offer and specified time are determined based at least in part on historical activity of the first account including start times and associated durations of prior gaming software sessions of the first account; detecting a user interaction with the offer for the physical product, and in response to the detection, taking an action in a process of ordering the physical product.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise using a model of historical activity of the first account to determine when to provide the offer, the model having been generated at least in part by: collecting data describing historical activity of the first account; filtering the data based at least in part on start time and duration of gaming software sessions to determine filtered data; and training the model using the filtered data.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the filtered data includes a plurality of start times of previous gaming software sessions initiated for the first account and corresponding durations of the plurality of previous gaming software sessions.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the physical product is food from a restaurant located in a same geographic region as the first user.
5. The system of claim 2, wherein the model is further configured to predict a particular physical product offer with which a user will interact.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein taking an action in the process of ordering the physical product comprises placing an order for the physical product on behalf of the first user.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the first account includes an account history and the account history comprises data indicating at least one of (i) a geographic region of the first user, (ii) an age of the first user, (iii) a gender of the first user, and (iv) a product order history of the first account.
8. The system of claim 2, wherein the operations performed by the one or more computers further comprise: receiving an indication of the user interaction with the offer for the physical product from the gaming software; and updating the model to reflect the user interaction with the offer for the physical product.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations performed by the one or more computers further comprise: prior to providing the offer for the physical product to the gaming software for display at the specified time, sending one or more initial offers for a physical product to the gaming software; receiving one or more indications of user interactions with the initial offers; and updating the model to reflect the one or more indications of user interactions with the initial offers.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein providing the offer for the physical product is further based at least in part on a time for delivery of the physical product.
11. The system of claim 2, wherein the collected data includes survey data obtained from the user.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein providing an offer for a physical product comprises: determining that a second user, who interacted with the first user through the gaming software, ordered the physical product.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the user interaction was a message between the second user and the first user.
14. A method comprising: receiving at a server a login request from gaming software on a computing device, the gaming software configured to display an offer for a physical product via a user interface of the computing device, the user request coming from a first user having a first account; determining to provide the offer for the physical product to the gaming software for display by the computing device at a specified time based at least in part on conditions of the gaming software session and an account history of the first account; providing, from the server to the gaming software, the offer for the physical product for display on the user interface of the computing device at the specified time; receiving an indication of a user interaction with the offer for the physical product, and in response to the indication, taking an action in a process of ordering the physical product.
15. A method comprising: receiving at a server a user request from an application on a computing device, the application configured to display an offer for a physical product via a user interface of the computing device, the user request coming from a first user having a first account; determining to provide the offer for the physical product to the application for display on the computing device at a specified time based at least in part on conditions of the application session and an account history of the first account; providing, from the server to the application, the offer for the physical product for display on the user interface of the computing device at the specified time; receiving an indication of a user interaction with the offer for a physical product, and in response to the indication, initiating a process of ordering the physical product.
16. A system comprising: one or more computers and one or more storage devices on which are stored instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: receiving a user request to start a gaming software session in gaming software, the user request coming from a first user having a first account, the gaming software configured to run on a user device and configured to provide, via a user interface of the user device, an offer for a physical product; providing, to the gaming software, an offer for a physical product for display at a specified time by the user interface of the user device, wherein the offer is determined by an intention predictor based at least in part on historical gaming activity of the first account and prior responses to similar offers by at least one of the first user and by other users; detecting a user interaction with the offer for the physical product, and in response to the detection, taking an action in a process of ordering the physical product.
17. The system of claim 16 wherein the historical activity of the first account comprises start times and associated durations of prior gaming software sessions of the first account.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein providing the offer for the physical product is further based at least in part on a time for delivery of the physical product.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein providing an offer for a physical product comprises: determining that a second user, who interacted with the first user through the gaming software, ordered the physical product.
20. The system of claim 16 wherein the offer is determined by an intention predictor based at least in part on the conversion rate of the offer.
</claims>
</document>
