<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G06N20/00,G06N3/08,H04R3/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STARKEY LABORATORIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
TALMAN, ROY
BURWINKEL, JUSTIN
SIVAN, MATAN
BORNSTEIN, NITZAN
AVIEL, NETA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69740693
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTION OF PHYSICAL ABUSE OR NEGLECT USING DATA FROM EAR-WEARABLE DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
A system may obtain a set of features characterizing a segment of inertial measurement unit (IMU) data generated by an IMU of an ear-wearable device. The system may apply a machine learning model (MLM) that takes the features characterizing the segment of the IMU data as input. The system may determine, based on output values produced by the MLM, whether a user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to physical abuse. The system may then perform an action in response to determining that the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to physical abuse.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining, by one or more processing circuits, a set of features characterizing a segment of inertial measurement unit (IMU) data generated by an IMU of an ear-wearable device; applying, by the one or more processing circuits, a machine learning model (MLM) that takes the features characterizing the segment of the IMU data as input; determining, by the one or more processing circuits, based on output values produced by the MLM, whether a user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to physical abuse; and performing, by the one or more processing circuits, an action in response to determining that the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to the type of physical abuse.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the MLM is an artificial neural network that includes a plurality of output neurons, the plurality of output neurons including a separate output neuron for each type of physical abuse in a plurality of types of physical abuse, applying the artificial neural network comprises generating an output value for each of the output neurons of the artificial neural network, and determining whether the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially be subject to physical abuse comprises: determining, by the one or more processing circuits, based on the output values produced by the output neurons of the artificial neural network, whether the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to a type of physical abuse in the plurality of the types of physical abuse.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the plurality of types of physical abuse include one or more of slapping, shaking, or throwing to a lower surface.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein: the segment is a current segment, the output values produced by the MLM are a first set of output values produced by the MLM, the method further comprises: obtaining, by the one or more processing circuits, a second set of features, the second set of features characterizing a first previous segment of IMU data generated by the IMU, wherein the first previous segment corresponds to a time before the current segment; obtaining, by the one or more processing circuits, a third set of features, the third set of features characterizing a second previous segment of IMU data generated by the IMU, wherein the second previous segment corresponds to a time before the first previous segment; applying the MLM to the second set of features to generate a second set of output values produced by the MLM; applying the MLM to the third set of features to generate a third set of output values produced by the MLM, and determining whether the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to physical abuse comprises: determining that the user has potentially been subject to slapping based on the first set of output values indicating that the user has potentially been subject to slapping and the second set of output values indicating that the user has not been potentially subject to abuse; determining that the user has potentially been subject to shaking based on the first set of output values indicating that the user has potentially been subject to shaking and the second set of output values indicating that the user has not been potentially subject to abuse; and determining that the user has potentially been subject to being thrown to the lower surface based on the first set of output values indicating that the user has potentially been subject to being thrown to the lower surface, the second set of output values indicating that the user has potentially been subject to being thrown to the lower surface, and the third set of output values indicating that the user has not been potentially subject to abuse.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining, by the one or more processing circuits, the segment of IMU data from the ear-wearable device based on the segment of IMU data representing a level of acceleration above a predetermined threshold.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein: the set of features is a first set of features, the method further comprises obtaining, by the one or more processing circuits, a second set of features, wherein the second set of features characterizes a segment of audio data generated by the ear-wearable device or another ear-wearable device concurrently worn by the user, and the MLM takes the first set of features and the second set of features as input.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein: the determination based on the values produced by the MLM is a first determination, and the method further comprises: obtaining, by the one or more processing circuits, a second set of features, wherein the second set of features characterizes a segment of audio data generated by the ear-wearable device or another ear-wearable device concurrently worn by the user; making, by the one or more processing circuits, based on the second set of features, a second determination of whether the user has been potentially subject to physical abuse; and determining, by the one or more processing circuits, based on the first determination and the second determination whether the user has been potentially subject to physical abuse.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising activating, by the one or more processing circuits, recording of sound by the ear-wearable device or another ear-wearable device of the user in response to determining that the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to physical abuse.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein: the set of features is a first set of features, the method further comprises: obtaining, by the one or more processing circuits, a second set of features, wherein the second set of features characterizes the recorded sound; and determining, by the one or more processing circuits, based on the second set of features whether the user has potentially been subject to physical abuse.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining, by the one or more processing circuits, location data for the ear-wearable device in response to determining that the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to physical abuse.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining, by the one or more processing circuits, a list of wireless communication identifiers of devices detected by the ear-wearable device or another ear-wearable device worn by the user in response to determining that the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to physical abuse.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to determining that the user has potentially been subject to physical abuse, causing, by the one or more processing circuits, at least one of the ear-wearable device or another ear-wearable device worn by the user to output an audible request for confirmation that the user was subject to physical abuse; and determining, by the one or more processing circuits, based on data obtained from the ear-wearable device or the other ear-wearable device that the user provided an indication that the user was or was not subject to physical abuse.
13. A system comprising: a data storage system configured to a set of features characterizing a segment of inertial measurement unit (IMU) data generated by an IMU of an ear-wearable device; and one or more processing circuits configured to: apply a machine learning model (MLM) that takes the features characterizing the segment of the IMU data as input; determine, based on output values produced by the MLM, whether a user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to physical abuse; and perform an action in response to determining that the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to physical abuse.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein: the MLM is an artificial neural network that includes a plurality of output neurons, the plurality of output neurons including a separate output neuron for each type of physical abuse in a plurality of types of physical abuse, the one or more processing circuits are configured to generate an output value for each of the output neurons of the artificial neural network, and the one or more processing circuits are configured such that, as part of determining whether the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially be subject to physical abuse, the one or more processing circuits determine, based on the output values produced by the output neurons of the artificial neural network, whether the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to a type of physical abuse in the plurality of the types of physical abuse.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the plurality of types of physical abuse include one or more of slapping, shaking, or throwing to a lower surface.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein: the segment is a current segment, the output values produced by the MLM are a first set of output values produced by the MLM, the one or more processing circuits are further configured to: obtain a second set of features, the second set of features characterizing a first previous segment of IMU data generated by the IMU, wherein the first previous segment corresponds to a time before the current segment; obtain a third set of features, the third set of features characterizing a second previous segment of IMU data generated by the IMU, wherein the second previous segment corresponds to a time before the first previous segment; apply the MLM to the second set of features to generate a second set of output values produced by the MLM; apply the MLM to the third set of features to generate a third set of output values produced by the MLM, and the one or more processing circuits are configured such that, as part of determining whether the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to physical abuse, the one or more processing circuits: determine that the user has potentially been subject to slapping based on the first set of output values indicating that the user has potentially been subject to slapping and the second set of output values indicating that the user has not been potentially subject to abuse; determine that the user has potentially been subject to shaking based on the first set of output values indicating that the user has potentially been subject to shaking and the second set of output values indicating that the user has not been potentially subject to abuse; and determine that the user has potentially been subject to being thrown to the lower surface based on the first set of output values indicating that the user has potentially been subject to being thrown to the lower surface, the second set of output values indicating that the user has potentially been subject to being thrown to the lower surface, and the third set of output values indicating that the user has not been potentially subject to abuse.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more processing circuits are further configured to: obtain the segment of IMU data from the ear-wearable device based on the segment of IMU data representing a level of acceleration above a predetermined threshold.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein: the set of features is a first set of features, the one or more processing circuits are further configured to obtain a second set of features, wherein the second set of features characterizes a segment of audio data generated by the ear-wearable device or another ear-wearable device concurrently worn by the user, and the MLM takes the first set of features and the second set of features as input.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein: the determination based on the values produced by the MLM is a first determination, and the one or more processing circuits are further configured to: obtain a second set of features, wherein the second set of features characterizes a segment of audio data generated by the ear-wearable device or another ear-wearable device concurrently worn by the user; make, based on the second set of features, a second determination of whether the user has been potentially subject to physical abuse; and determine, based on the first determination and the second determination whether the user has been potentially subject to physical abuse.
20. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more processing circuits are further configured to activate recording of sound by the ear-wearable device or another ear-wearable device of the user in response to determining that the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to physical abuse.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein: the set of features is a first set of features, the one or more processing circuits are further configured to: obtain a second set of features, wherein the second set of features characterizes the recorded sound; and determine, based on the second set of features, whether the user has potentially been subject to physical abuse.
22. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more processing circuits are further configured to: obtain location data for the ear-wearable device in response to determining that the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to physical abuse.
23. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more processing circuits are further configured to obtain a list of wireless communication identifiers of devices detected by the ear-wearable device or another ear-wearable device worn by the user in response to determining that the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to physical abuse.
24. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more processing circuits are further configured to: in response to determining that the user has potentially been subject to physical abuse, cause at least one of the ear-wearable device or another ear-wearable device worn by the user to output an audible request for confirmation that the user was subject to physical abuse; and determine, based on data obtained from the ear-wearable device or the other ear-wearable device that the user provided an indication that the user was or was not subject to physical abuse.
25. A system comprising: means for obtaining a set of features characterizing a segment of inertial measurement unit (IMU) data generated by an IMU of an ear-wearable device; means for applying a machine learning model (MLM) that takes the features characterizing the segment of the IMU data as input; means for determining, based on output values produced by the MLM, whether a user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to a type of physical abuse in the plurality of the types of physical abuse; and means for performing an action in response to determining that the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to the type of physical abuse.
26. A computer-readable data storage medium having instructions stored thereon that, when executed, cause one or more processing circuits to: obtain a set of features characterizing a segment of inertial measurement unit (IMU) data generated by an IMU of an ear-wearable device; apply a machine learning model (MLM) that takes the features characterizing the segment of the IMU data as input; determine, based on output values produced by the MLM, whether a user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to a type of physical abuse in the plurality of the types of physical abuse; and perform an action in response to determining that the user of the ear-wearable device has potentially been subject to the type of physical abuse.
</claims>
</document>
