<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KINOSHITA AKIRA
TANAKA TAKUYA
KASAHARA, RYOSUKE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KINOSHITA AKIRA
TANAKA TAKUYA
KASAHARA, RYOSUKE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74101603
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LEARNING DEVICE AND LEARNING METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A learning device includes a learning unit configured to learn a model using learning data stored in a data storage unit; a subsampling unit configured to determine whether to use the learning data corresponding to gradient information updated by an update unit based on the model, for learning of a next model after learning of one model based on a subsampling rate; first and second buffer unit configured to buffer learning data determined to be used for and data determined not to be used for learning of the next model and gradient information corresponding to the learning data, respectively, up to a volume determined in advance. The first buffer unit and the second buffer unit are configured to write the learning data and the gradient information into the data storage unit for each predetermined block when buffering the learning data and the gradient information up to the volume.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A learning device configured to perform learning by gradient boosting, the learning device comprising: a data storage unit configured to store learning data for learning a model by the gradient boosting and gradient information corresponding to the learning data; a learning unit configured to learn the model using the learning data stored in the data storage unit; an update unit configured to update gradient information of each learning data based on the model learned by the learning unit; a subsampling unit configured to determine whether to use the learning data corresponding to the gradient information updated by the update unit, for learning of a next model after learning of one model based on a subsampling rate as a ratio of learning data used for learning of the model; a first buffer unit configured to buffer learning data determined to be used for learning of the next model by the subsampling unit and gradient information corresponding to the learning data up to a volume determined in advance; and a second buffer unit configured to buffer learning data determined not to be used for learning of the next model by the subsampling unit and gradient information corresponding to the learning data up to the volume determined in advance, wherein the first buffer unit and the second buffer unit are configured to write the learning data and the gradient information into the data storage unit for each predetermined block when buffering the learning data and the gradient information up to the volume determined in advance.
2. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein the update unit is configured to read out the learning data for each predetermined block, when reading out the learning data from the data storage unit to update the gradient information.
3. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein the data storage unit comprises: a first bank region for storing the learning data and the gradient information corresponding to the learning data buffered in the first buffer unit; and a second bank region for storing the learning data and the gradient information corresponding to the learning data buffered in the second buffer unit.
4. The learning device according to claim 3, wherein the data storage unit includes two data storage units, and one of the two data storage units includes the first bank region, and the other one of the two data storage units includes the second bank region.
5. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein the data storage unit comprises a dynamic random access memory (DRAM).
6. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein the data storage unit comprises: a first memory configured to store the gradient information, the first memory comprising a memory inside a processing chip in which at least the learning unit and the update unit are configured; and a second memory configured to store the learning data, the second memory comprising a memory outside the processing chip.
7. The learning device according to claim 6, wherein the first memory comprises a static random access memory (SRAM), and the second memory comprises a DRAM.
8. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein the volume determined in advance is determined based on a burst length of the data storage unit.
9. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein an operation of reading-out and writing is divided to be performed on a time-series basis in the data storage unit.
10. The learning device according to claim 9, wherein the operation of reading-out and writing is divided to be performed on the time-series basis such that transfer efficiency of the operation of reading-out and writing is equal to or larger than a predetermined value in the data storage unit.
11. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein an operating frequency of processing performed by the learning unit and the update unit is different from an operating frequency of processing performed by the subsampling unit, the first buffer unit, and the second buffer unit.
12. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein the learning unit include a plurality of learning units and the update unit includes a plurality of update units.
13. The learning device according to claim 12, further comprising: a distributing unit configured to read out the learning data from the data storage unit for each predetermined block, and distribute learning data included in each block to the learning units in order.
14. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein the learning unit is configured to learn a decision tree as the model by a gradient boosting decision tree as the gradient boosting.
15. The learning device according to claim 14, wherein the learning unit is configured to determine whether to cause the learning data stored in the data storage unit to branch to one node or to the other node of lower nodes of a node of the decision tree based on a branch condition for the node, the first buffer unit is configured to buffer learning data determined to branch to the one node by the learning unit up to a volume determined in advance, the second buffer unit is configured to buffer learning data determined to branch to the other node by the learning unit up to the volume determined in advance, and, the first buffer unit and the second buffer unit are configured to write the learning data into continuous addresses of the data storage unit for each predetermined block when buffering the learning data up to the volume determined in advance.
16. A learning method of performing learning by gradient boosting, the learning method comprising: learning a model using learning data stored in a data storage unit configured to store the learning data for learning the model by the gradient boosting and gradient information corresponding to the learning data; updating gradient information of each learning data based on the learned model; determining whether to use the learning data corresponding to the updated gradient information, for learning of a next model after learning of one model based on a subsampling rate as a ratio of learning data used for learning of the model; buffering learning data determined to be used for learning of the next model and gradient information corresponding to the learning data in a first buffer unit up to a volume determined in advance; buffering learning data determined not to be used for learning of the next model and gradient information corresponding to the learning data in a second buffer unit up to the volume determined in advance; and writing the learning data and the gradient information into the data storage unit for each predetermined block when buffering the learning data and the gradient information in the first buffer unit and the second buffer unit up to the volume determined in advance.
</claims>
</document>
