<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/213,A63F13/217,G01K7/42,G06K9/62,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
CASTLEMAN, DENNIS D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72336809
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Thermopile Array Fusion Tracking
</title>

<abstract>
A simultaneous location and mapping (SLAM)-enabled video game system, a user device of the video game system, and a computer-readable storage medium of the user device are disclosed. Generally, the video game system includes a video game console, a plurality of thermal beacons, and a user device communicatively coupled with the video game console. The user device includes a thermopile array, a processor, and a memory. The user device may receive thermal data from the thermopile array, the thermal data corresponding to a thermal signal emitted from a thermal beacon of the plurality of thermal beacons and detected by the thermopile array. The user device may determine, based on the thermal data, its location in 3D space, and then transmit that location to the video game system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A user device comprising: a thermopile array; an inertial measurement unit (IMU); a processor; and a memory storing instructions that, upon execution by the processor, cause the user device to: receive thermal data from the thermopile array, the thermal data corresponding to a thermal signal emitted from a thermal beacon of a plurality of thermal beacons and detected by the thermopile array; receive IMU data from the IMU, the IMU data comprising acceleration data corresponding to an acceleration of the user device in a three-dimensional (3D) space and orientation data corresponding to a rotational rate of the user device in the 3D space; determine a location of the user device in the 3D space by inputting, to a sensor fusion algorithm the thermal data, the IMU data, and previous location data; and transmit the location of the user device to a video game system.
2. The user device of claim 1, wherein the sensor fusion algorithm is configured to correct a drift associated with the IMU data.
3. The user device of claim 1, wherein the execution of the instructions further cause the user device to: estimate a first location of the user device based on the thermal data; and correct, by the sensor fusion algorithm and based on the first location, a drift associated with the IMU data.
4. The user device of claim 1, wherein the sensor fusion algorithm comprises an artificial intelligence (AI) model, wherein the AI model is trained to output a location estimate based on sensor data of different types of position sensors.
5. The user device of claim 1, further comprising a wireless signal-based position sensor, and wherein determining the location further comprises inputting sensor data of the wireless signal-based position sensor to the sensor fusion algorithm.
6. The user device of claim 1, wherein the IMU data is generated at a first frequency, wherein the thermal data is generated at a second frequency, and wherein the first frequency is smaller than the second frequency.
7. The user device of claim 1, wherein the previous location data corresponds to calibration data generated during a calibration procedure of the user device
8. The user device of claim 1, wherein the previous location data comprises previous IMU data generated by the IMU.
9. The user device of claim 1, wherein the execution of the instructions further cause the user device to: estimate a first location of the user device based on the thermal data; and estimate a second location of the user device based on the IMU data, wherein the sensor fusion algorithm outputs the location of the user device based on the first location and the second location.
10. The user device of claim 9, wherein the first location is associated with a confidence value, wherein the confidence value is based on a total number of thermal beacons that are concurrently in a field of view of the thermopile array, and wherein the location is determined based on the confidence value.
11. A method implemented on a user device coupled with a video game system, the method comprising: generating, by a thermopile array of the user device, thermal data corresponding to a thermal signal emitted from a thermal beacon of a plurality of thermal beacons; generating, by an inertial measurement unit (IMU) of the user device, IMU data that comprises acceleration data corresponding to an acceleration of the user device in a three-dimensional (3D) space and orientation data corresponding to a rotational rate of the user device in the 3D space; and determining a location of the user device in the 3D space by inputting, to a sensor fusion algorithm the thermal data, the IMU data, and previous location data.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the sensor fusion algorithm is configured to correct a drift associated with the IMU data.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: estimating a first location of the user device based on the thermal data; and correcting, by the sensor fusion algorithm and based on the first location, a drift associated with the IMU data.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the sensor fusion algorithm comprises an artificial intelligence (AI) model, wherein the AI model is trained to output a location estimate based on sensor data of different types of position sensors.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein determining the location further comprises inputting sensor data of a wireless signal-based position sensor of the user device to the sensor fusion algorithm.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the IMU data is generated at a first frequency, wherein the thermal data is generated at a second frequency, and wherein the first frequency is smaller than the second frequency.
17. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions that, upon execution on a device, cause the device to perform operations comprising: generating, by a thermopile array of the user device, thermal data corresponding to a thermal signal emitted from a thermal beacon of a plurality of thermal beacons; generating, by an inertial measurement unit (IMU) of the user device, IMU data that comprises acceleration data corresponding to an acceleration of the user device in a three-dimensional (3D) space and orientation data corresponding to a rotational rate of the user device in the 3D space; and determining a location of the user device in the 3D space by inputting, to a sensor fusion algorithm the thermal data, the IMU data, and previous location data.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the previous location data corresponds to calibration data generated during a calibration procedure of the user device
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the previous location data comprises previous IMU data generated by the IMU.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: estimating a first location of the user device based on the thermal data; and estimating a second location of the user device based on the IMU data, wherein the sensor fusion algorithm outputs the location of the user device based on the first location and the second location.
</claims>
</document>
