<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N21/25,H04N21/442,H04N21/6547
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AVAGO TECHNOLOGIES INTERNATIONAL SALES
</assignee>

<inventors>
YE QIANG
CHEN XUEMIN
LI YONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69139854
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SECURE MONITORING OF SYSTEM-ON-CHIP APPLICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A data analytics device for application monitoring includes an application-monitor manager engine to receive configuration files from a cloud server and to generate monitoring rules for a number of monitors. A data-processing engine is coupled to the application-monitor manager engine and the monitors and coordinates activities of the plurality of monitors. The monitors are embedded in a user space and a kernel of a host operating system, and the monitoring rules for the monitors are generated based on the configuration files.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data analytics device for application monitoring, the device comprising: an application-monitor manager engine configured to receive configuration files from a cloud server and to generate monitoring rules for a plurality of monitors; and a data-processing engine coupled to the application-monitor manager engine and the plurality of monitors and configured to coordinate activities of the plurality of monitors, wherein: the plurality of monitors are embedded in a user space and a kernel of a host operating system, and the monitoring rules for the plurality of monitors are generated based on the configuration files.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the application-monitor manager engine is further configured to enforce the monitoring rules.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of monitors are further embedded in a video engine and a security engine, wherein video engine monitors are configured to monitor video content analytics data and security engine monitors are configured to monitor security analytics data.
4. The device of claim 3, wherein the video content analytics data comprises a manifest file, a video content source, a video segment identification and video segment statistics, and the security analytics data comprise traffic pattern information, digital rights management (DRM) attributes and encryptionand/or authentication-key information.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the data-processing engine is further configured to collect data from the plurality of monitors, to preprocess the collected data and to detect relevant events.
6. The device of claim 5, wherein the relevant events comprise a start and a completion of an active application or a background application, a domain-name system (DNS) query or a video streaming session.
7. The device of claim 5, further comprising plugins configured to provide a secure data package by securely packaging the collected data and the preprocessed collected data received from the data-processing engine.
8. The device of claim 7, wherein the secure data package is provided to a cloud-based processor to perform a data analysis including analyzing internet protocol (IP) sessions, video and security events and dynamic analytic data and to perform deep packet inspection (DPI) and correlation in timeline and traffic patterns.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the data-processing engine coordinates activities of the plurality of monitors by triggering a monitoring of hypertext-transfer protocol (HTTP) messages with a resolved IP address upon completion of a DNS query.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the monitoring rules for the plurality of monitors include rules that identify at least one monitor to take action on one or more applications.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of monitors are configured to perform IP stack monitoring by extracting information from a DNS server, a manifest file and video segments requests.
12. A data analytics device comprising: at least one processor circuit configured to: receive configuration files from a cloud server; generate monitoring rules for a plurality of monitors based on the received configuration files; coordinate activities of the plurality of monitors; and enforce the monitoring rules, wherein the plurality of monitors are embedded in a user space and a kernel of a host operating system.
13. The data analytics device of claim 12, wherein the at least one processor circuit comprises a video engine including video-engine monitors and a security engine including security-engine monitors, wherein the video-engine monitors are configured to monitor video content analytics data and the security-engine monitors are configured to monitor security analytics data.
14. The data analytics device of claim 12, wherein the at least one processor circuit is further configured to collect data from the plurality of monitors, to preprocess the collected data and to detect relevant events including a start and a completion of an active application or a background application, a DNS query or a video streaming session.
15. The data analytics device of claim 14, wherein the at least one processor circuit is further configured to provide a secure data package to a cloud server to perform a data analysis including analyzing IP sessions, video and security events and dynamic analytic data and to perform DPI and correlation in timeline and traffic patterns.
16. The data analytics device of claim 12, wherein the at least one processor circuit is further configured to coordinates activities of the plurality of monitors by triggering a monitoring of HTTP messages with a resolved IP address upon completion of a DNS query.
17. The data analytics device of claim 12, wherein the plurality of monitors are configured to perform IP stack monitoring by extracting information from a DNS server, a manifest file and video segments requests, and wherein the monitoring rules for the plurality of monitors include rules that identify at least one monitor to take action on one or more applications
18. The data analytics device of claim 12, wherein the at least one processor circuit is further configured to correlate video-session information and video-traffic pattern information from video-engine data and security-engine data with corresponding information of a video-program library generated through a machine-learning-based model to identify a specific video program associated with a video segment.
19. A data analytics system comprising: a data analytics device coupled to the cloud; and a cloud-based analytics portal coupled to the data analytics device and configured to analyze data provided by the data analytics device, the data analytics device comprising: an application-monitor manager engine configured to receive configuration files from a cloud server and to generate monitoring rules for a plurality of monitors based on the configuration files; and a data-processing engine coupled to the application-monitor manager engine and the plurality of monitors and configured to coordinate activities of the plurality of monitors and enforce the monitoring rules.
20. The data analytics system of claim 19, wherein the plurality of monitors are embedded in a user space and a kernel of a host operating system as well as in a video engine and a security engine, wherein video-engine monitors are configured to monitor video content analytics data and security-engine monitors are configured to monitor security analytics data, and wherein the data provided by the data analytics device comprises a secure data package, and the cloud-based analytics portal is configured to analyze IP sessions, video and security events and dynamic analytic data and to perform DPI and correlation in timeline and traffic patterns.
</claims>
</document>
