<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02,G07C5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING DIDI INFINITY TECHNOLOGY AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUO RUI
WANG YU
LI MIN
ZHANG, DUOKUN
WANG HONGFENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64737488
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR VEHICLE VALUE EVALUATION
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for vehicle value evaluation. The systems may perform the methods to identify a mobile terminal; obtain target information associated with the mobile terminal and a target vehicle associated with the mobile terminal; determine a current estimated value of the target vehicle based on the target information; and send the current estimated value of the target vehicle to the mobile terminal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic system for determining a vehicle value, comprising: one or more storage media comprising a set of instructions; and one or more processors configured to communicate with the one or more storage media, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the one or more processors are directed to: identify a mobile terminal; obtain target information associated with the mobile terminal and a target vehicle associated with the mobile terminal; determine a current estimated value of the target vehicle based on the target information; and send the current estimated value of the target vehicle to the mobile terminal.
2. The electronic system of claim 1, wherein the target information includes an accumulative mileage number up to a substantial present moment of the mobile terminal.
3. The electronic system of claim 1, wherein the target information includes an accumulative mileage number of the mobile terminal between a predetermined time point and a substantial present moment, and an accumulative mileage number of the target vehicle up to the predetermined time point.
4. The electronic system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further directed to: determine whether the current estimated value is different from a last estimated value; and determine that the current estimated value is different from the last estimated value.
5. The electronic system of claim 4, wherein the one or more processors are further directed to: send, to the mobile terminal, a reminder indicating whether the current estimated value is different from the last estimated value.
6. The electronic system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further directed to: determine that a predetermined condition occurs to the target vehicle.
7. The electronic system of claim 6, wherein the predetermined condition includes a condition that an interval between a substantial present moment and a last time of vehicle value evaluation is equal to a predetermined time interval.
8. The electronic system of claim 6, wherein the predetermined condition includes a condition that a predetermined event that affects the current estimated value occurs to the target vehicle.
9. A method for determining a vehicle value implemented on a machine having at least one processor and at least one storage device, comprising: identifying, by the at least one processor, a mobile terminal; obtaining, by the at least one processor, target information associated with the mobile terminal and a target vehicle associated with the mobile terminal; determining, by the at least one processor, a current estimated value of the target vehicle based on the target information; and sending, by the at least one processor, the current estimated value of the target vehicle to the mobile terminal.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the target information includes an accumulative mileage number up to a substantial present moment of the mobile terminal.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the target information includes an accumulative mileage number of the mobile terminal between a predetermined time point and a substantial present moment, and an accumulative mileage number of the target vehicle up to the predetermined time point.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining, by the at least one processor, whether the current estimated value is different from a last estimated value; and determining, by the at least one processor, that the current estimated value is different from the last estimated value.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: sending, by the at least one processor to the mobile terminal, a reminder indicating whether the current estimated value is different from the last estimated value.
14. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining, by the at least one processor, that a predetermined condition occurs to the target vehicle.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the predetermined condition includes a condition that an interval between a substantial present moment and a last time of vehicle value evaluation is equal to a predetermined time interval.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the predetermined condition includes a condition that a predetermined event that affects the current estimated value occurs to the target vehicle.
17. A non-transitory processor-readable storage medium, comprising a set of instructions for determining value of a vehicle, wherein when executed by at least one processor, the set of instruction directs the at least one processor to perform acts of: identifying a mobile terminal; obtaining target information associated with the mobile terminal and a target vehicle associated with the mobile terminal; determining a current estimated value of the target vehicle based on the target information; and sending the current estimated value of the target vehicle to the mobile terminal.
18. The storage medium of claim 17, wherein the target information includes an accumulative mileage number up to a substantial present moment of the mobile terminal.
19. The storage medium of claim 17, wherein the target information includes an accumulative mileage number of the mobile terminal between a predetermined time point and a substantial present moment, and an accumulative mileage number of the target vehicle up to the predetermined time point.
20. The storage medium of claim 17, wherein the at least one processor is further directed to: determining that a predetermined condition occurs to the target vehicle, wherein the predetermined condition includes at least one of a condition that an interval between a substantial present moment and a last time of vehicle value evaluation is equal to a predetermined time interval, or a condition that a predetermined event that affects the current estimated value occurs to the target vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
