<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60S1/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VISTEON GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
NADKARNI, VIJAY
Whikehart, John William
INGRODY, Michael K.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73016125
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OBJECT DETECTION SYSTEM FOR A VEHICLE
</title>

<abstract>
An object detection system may include an object detecting device. The object detecting device may generate an object signal based on detecting an object. The object detection system may include a controller for operating a motor. The motor may be connected to a wiper element. The controller may generate a position signal based on a position of the motor. The object detection system may include an object detection module in communication with the object detecting device. The object detection module may receive the object signal and/or the position signal. The object detection system may be configured to selectively control the motor in response to detecting the object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An object detection system for a vehicle, the object detection system comprising: an object detecting device for generating an object signal based on detecting an object; a windshield wiper controller for operating a windshield wiper motor connected to a windshield wiper and for generating a position signal based on a position of the windshield wiper; and an object detection module in communication with the object detecting device to receive the object signal and with the windshield wiper controller to receive the position signal, wherein the object detection module is configured to selectively control the windshield wiper motor in response to the object signal and the position signal and to generate an environmental model that includes a representation of the object.
2. The object detection system of claim 1, further comprising a rain sensor in communication with the windshield wiper controller, wherein the rain sensor is configured to detect precipitation and to send a rain sensor signal to the windshield wiper controller to operate the windshield wiper motor.
3. The object detection system of claim 2, wherein rain sensor is configured to send the rain sensor signal to the windshield wiper controller in response to detecting an amount of precipitation.
4. The object detection system of claim 2, wherein the rain sensor is in communication with the object detection module, and the object detection module is configured to determine whether the object is precipitation and, in response to the object being precipitation, to remove the representation of the object from the environmental model.
5. The object detection system of claim 1, wherein the object detection module includes a machine learning module configured to identify the object.
6. The object detection system of claim 1, wherein the object detection module is configured to communicate bi-directionally with the windshield wiper controller to selectively control the windshield wiper motor.
7. The object detection system of claim 6, wherein, via the windshield wiper controller, the object detection module is configured to selectively control a speed of the windshield wiper motor.
8. The object detection system of claim 7, wherein, via the windshield wiper controller, the object detection module is configured to increase the speed of the windshield wiper motor or decrease the speed of the windshield wiper motor.
9. The object detection system of claim 1, wherein the object detection module is configured to determine whether the object is the windshield wiper based on the position signal from the windshield wiper controller.
10. A method for detecting an object, the method comprising: detecting the object within a field of view of an object detecting device; generating, via the object detecting device, an object signal in response to detecting the object; operating, via a windshield wiper controller, a windshield wiper motor; generating, via the windshield wiper controller, a position signal based on the operating of the windshield wiper motor; identifying, via an object detection module, the object based on the object signal or the position signal; and selectively controlling, via the object detection module, the windshield wiper motor in response to the identifying the object.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: detecting, via a rain sensor, an amount of precipitation; generating, via the rain sensor, a rain sensor signal based on the detecting the amount of precipitation; transmitting, from the rain sensor to the windshield wiper controller, the rain sensor signal; and operating, via the windshield wiper controller, the windshield wiper motor based on the rain sensor signal.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising processing, via a machine learning module of the object detection module, the object signal or the position signal.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the selectively controlling, via the object detection module, includes communicating between the object detection module and the windshield wiper controller.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the selectively controlling, via the object detection module, includes pausing the windshield wiper motor based on the communicating between the object detection module and the windshield wiper controller.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium including program instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to identify an object, by performing the steps of: detecting the object, via an object detecting device; generating, via the object detecting device, an object signal in response to the detecting the object; communicating between the object detecting device and an object detection module; operating, via a windshield wiper controller, a windshield wiper motor; generating, via the windshield wiper controller, a position signal based on a position of the windshield wiper motor; communicating between the windshield wiper controller and the object detection module; identifying, via the object detection module, the object based on the object signal, the position signal, or both the object signal and the positon signal; and selectively controlling, via the object detection module communicating with the windshield wiper controller, the windshield wiper motor.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the selectively controlling, via the object detection module communicating with the windshield wiper controller, includes adjusting a speed of the windshield wiper motor.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the adjusting the speed of the windshield wiper motor includes increasing the speed or decreasing the speed.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the selectively controlling, via the object detection module communicating with the windshield wiper controller, includes pausing the windshield wiper motor.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, detecting, via a rain sensor, precipitation; and sending, via the rain sensor, a rain sensor signal to the windshield wiper controller to operate the windshield wiper motor.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, determining, via the object detection module and in response to a communication from the rain sensor, whether the object is precipitation and, in response to the object being precipitation, removing the representation of the object from an environmental model that represents the object, generated via the object detection module.
</claims>
</document>
