<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/58,G01S13/86,G06T7/20,G06T7/50,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOSHIBA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
FARNHAM, TIMOTHY DAVID
KHAN, AFTAB
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514118
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPENSATING RADIO TRACKING WITH COMPARISON TO IMAGE BASED TRACKING
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides an error detector for determining an error vector between a radio trajectory and an image trajectory. The error detector includes: an input for monitoring a radio trajectory of an object from a radio signal and an image trajectory of an object from an image over an observation area; a correlation module arranged to correlate the radio trajectory with the image trajectory; an error module arranged to determine an error vector between the radio trajectory and the image trajectory; and an output arranged to transmit the error vector for use in determining an estimated trajectory of a target based on a target trajectory from a radio signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An error detector for determining an error vector between a radio trajectory and an image trajectory, the error detector including: an input for monitoring a radio trajectory of an object from a radio signal and an image trajectory of an object from an image over an observation area; a correlation module arranged to correlate the radio trajectory with the image trajectory; an error module arranged to determine an error vector between the radio trajectory and the image trajectory; and an output arranged to transmit the error vector for use in determining an estimated trajectory of a target based on a target trajectory from a radio signal.
2. The error detector of claim 1, wherein the input is arranged to determine the radio trajectory by at least one of angle of arrival measurement or time of arrival measurement.
3. The error detector of claim 1, wherein the input is arranged to determine the image trajectory based on image depth analysis.
4. The error detector of claim 1, wherein the error module is arranged to determine a spatial error array by spatially interpolating the error vector over the entire observation area.
5. A trainer for training a machine learning algorithm to generate an estimated trajectory of a target based on a target trajectory, the trainer including: an input for monitoring a radio trajectory of an object from a radio signal and an image trajectory of an object from an image over an observation area; a correlation module arranged to correlate the radio trajectory with the image trajectory; a training module arranged to train a machine learning algorithm based on the radio trajectory and the image trajectory; and an output arranged to transmit the trained machine learning algorithm for use in determining an estimated trajectory of a target based on radio signal measurements.
6. The trainer of claim 5, wherein the input is arranged to determine the radio trajectory by at least one of angle of arrival measurement or time of arrival measurement.
7. The trainer of claim 6, wherein the input is arranged to determine the image trajectory based on image depth analysis.
8. The trainer of claim 6, wherein the machine learning algorithm comprises a support vector machine or a neural network.
9. A trajectory estimator for determining an estimated trajectory of a target from a radio signal, the trajectory estimator comprising: an input for monitoring a target trajectory of a target from a radio signal over an observation area; an estimation module arranged to determine an estimated trajectory of the target by correcting the target trajectory from the radio signal using the error vector from the error detector of claim 1; and an output arranged to transmit the estimated trajectory of the target to a consumer.
10. The trajectory estimator or claim 9, wherein the input is arranged to monitor the target trajectory by at least one of angle of arrival measurement or time of arrival measurement.
11. A trajectory estimator for determining an estimated trajectory of a target from radio signal measurements, the trajectory estimator comprising: an input for taking radio signal measurements over an observation area; an estimation module arranged to apply the radio signal measurements to the machine learning algorithm from claim 5 to obtain the estimated trajectory of the target; and an output arranged to transmit the estimated trajectory of the target to a consumer.
12. The trajectory estimator of claim 11, wherein the input is arranged to take the radio signal measurements by angle of arrival measurement or time of arrival measurement.
13. A computer-implemented method of determining an error vector between a radio trajectory and an image trajectory, the method including: monitoring a radio trajectory of an object detected from a radio signal and an image trajectory of an object detected from an image over an observation area; correlating the radio trajectory with the image trajectory; determining an error vector between the radio trajectory and the image trajectory; and transmitting the error vector for use in determining an estimated trajectory of a target based on a target trajectory from a radio signal.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising determining a spatial error array by populating the error vector over the observation area.
15. A computer-implemented method for training a machine learning algorithm to generate an estimated trajectory of a target, the method including: monitoring a radio trajectory of an object from a radio signal and an image trajectory of an object from a training image over an observation area; correlating the radio trajectory with the image trajectory; training a machine learning algorithm based on the radio trajectory and the image trajectory; and transmitting the trained machine learning algorithm for use in determining an estimated trajectory of a target based on measured radio signals.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the machine learning algorithm comprises a support vector machine or a neural network.
17. A computer-implemented method of determining an estimated trajectory of a target, the method comprising: monitoring a target trajectory of a target from a radio signal over an observation area; determining an estimated trajectory of the target by correcting the target trajectory from the radio signal using the error vector determined according to the method of claim 13; and transmitting the estimated trajectory to a consumer.
18. A computer-implemented method of determining an estimated trajectory of a target, the method comprising: taking measurements from a radio signal over an observation area; applying the radio signal measurements to the machine learning algorithm trained according to the method of claim 15 to obtain the estimated trajectory of the target; and transmitting the estimated trajectory to a consumer.
19. A non-transitory computer readable medium including instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform the method of claim 13.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium including instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform the method of claim 15.
21. A non-transitory computer readable medium including instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform the method of claim 17.
22. A non-transitory computer readable medium including instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform the method of claim 18.
</claims>
</document>
