<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R33/56,G01R33/58,G06N3/08,G06T11/00,G16H30/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STANFORD UNIVERSITY
GE PRECISION HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
VASANAWALA, SHREYAS
LAI PENG
CHENG, JOSEPH YITAN
SANDINO, CHRISTOPHER MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71519878
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGE RECONSTRUCTION USING AN EXTENDED SENSITIVITY MODEL AND A DEEP NEURAL NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Various methods and systems are provided for reconstructing magnetic resonance images from accelerated magnetic resonance imaging (MM) data. In one embodiment, a method for reconstructing a magnetic resonance (MR) image includes: estimating multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps from undersampled k-space data, the undersampled k-space data acquired by a multi-coil radio frequency (RF) receiver array; reconstructing multiple initial images using the undersampled k-space data and the estimated multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps; iteratively reconstructing, with a trained deep neural network, multiple images by using the initial images and the multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps to generate multiple final images, each of the multiple images corresponding to a different set of the multiple sets of sensitivity maps; and combining the multiple final images output from the trained deep neural network to generate the MR image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for reconstructing a magnetic resonance (MR) image, comprising: estimating multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps from undersampled k-space data, wherein the undersampled k-space data was acquired by a multi-coil radio frequency (RF) receiver array; reconstructing multiple initial images using the undersampled k-space data and the estimated multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps, each of the multiple initial images corresponding to a different set of the multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps; iteratively reconstructing, with a trained deep neural network, multiple images by using the multiple initial images and the multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps to generate multiple final images, each of the multiple images corresponding to a different set of the multiple sets of sensitivity maps; and combining the multiple final images output from the trained deep neural network to generate the MR image; wherein the multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps are estimated using an ESPIRiT calibration.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying the MR image via a display device.
3. (canceled)
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the trained deep neural network comprises a number of interleaved convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and data consistency layers.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the trained deep neural network performs a number of iterations, each iteration performed by one CNN and a subsequent data consistency layer.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the multiple initial images are zero-filled images.
7. A non-transitory computer-readable medium (CRM) comprising instructions that, when executed, cause a processor to: estimate multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps from undersampled k-space data, the undersampled k-space data acquired by a multi-coil radio frequency (RF) receiver array of a magnetic resonance (MR) imaging apparatus; reconstruct multiple initial images using the undersampled k-space data and the estimated multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps, each of the multiple initial images corresponding to a different set of the multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps; iteratively reconstruct, with a deep neural network, multiple final MR images by using the multiple initial images and the multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps as inputs to the deep neural network, each of the multiple final MR images corresponding to a different set of the multiple sets of sensitivity maps and output from the deep neural network; and combine the multiple final MR images output from the deep neural network to generate a combined, final MR image; wherein the deep neural network comprises a number of interleaved convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and data consistency layers.
8. The CRM of claim 7, wherein the deep neural network is trained end-to-end with artifact-free ground truth MR images and corresponding initial MR images reconstructed directly from undersampled MR data or augmented by simulated artifacts.
9. The CRM of claim 7, further comprising displaying the combined, final MR image to a user via a display device in electronic communication with the CRM.
10. The CRM of claim 7, wherein estimating the multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps includes estimating the multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps using an ESPIRiT calibration.
11. The CRM of claim 7, wherein each initial image of the multiple initial images is a zero-filled image.
12. (canceled)
13. The CRM of claim 7, wherein the deep neural network further comprises a residual connection placed in between couples of convolutions of the CNN.
14. The CRM of claim 7, wherein the deep neural network performs a number of iterations, each iteration performed by one CNN and a subsequent data consistency layer.
15. The CRM of claim 7, wherein the multiple initial images are complex-valued images and wherein the instructions further cause the processor to split the multiple complex-valued initial images into real part images and imaginary part images and input the split multiple complex-valued initial images into the CNN and input the multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps into the data consistency layers.
16. The CRM of claim 7, wherein the iteratively reconstructing includes iteratively reconstructing the multiple final MR images simultaneously with the deep neural network.
17. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) system, comprising: a radiofrequency (RF) coil array including a plurality of coil elements; a processor coupled to the RF coil array; and a non-transitory memory storing a deep learning-ESPIRiT network and executable instructions that when executed during operation of the MRI system cause the processor to: acquire, with the RF coil array, undersampled k-space data; estimate multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps from the acquired k-space data; reconstruct a plurality of initial MR images using the acquired k-space data and the estimated multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps; input the initial MR images and estimated multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps into the deep learning-ESPIRiT network and reconstruct a plurality of final MR images concurrently with the deep learning-ESPIRiT network; and display one or more of the plurality of reconstructed final MR images.
18. The MRI system of claim 17, further comprising a display device in electronic communication with the processor and including a display screen and wherein the one or more of the plurality of reconstructed final MR images are displayed via the display screen.
19. The MRI system of claim 17, wherein each final MR image of the plurality of reconstructed final MR images corresponds to a different set of the multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps and wherein each set of coil sensitivity maps includes a sensitivity map for each coil element of the plurality of coil elements.
20. The MRI system of claim 17, wherein the deep learning-ESPIRiT network includes a deep neural network including a plurality of layers integrated with a data consistency layer and wherein reconstructing the plurality of final MR images concurrently with the deep learning-ESPIRiT network includes comparing and enforcing consistency between intermediate images generated from the deep neural network and the multiple sets of coil sensitivity maps.
</claims>
</document>
