<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/09,B60W30/095,G05D1/02,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOYOTA RESEARCH INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZIDEK, ROBERT A. E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71403625
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR OPTIMIZING A PATH FOR OBSTACLE EVASION FOR A VEHICLE
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, example systems and methods relate to generating an optimal path for a vehicle to avoid an obstacle. As the vehicle travels on a road segment, a polyline representing a path of the vehicle is generated. The polyline may include a plurality of nodes, and each node may have a set of coordinates with respect to the polyline. The vehicle uses sensors to detect one or more obstacles on the road, and lane boundaries of the road. The vehicle uses these obstacles and lane boundaries to calculate lateral constraints for the polyline. The vehicle then uses the lateral constraints and a quadratic program to optimize the polyline. The optimized polyline may be used to determine the optimal path for the vehicle that avoids the one or more obstacles.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An optimization system for optimizing a polyline for obstacle evasion for a vehicle, comprising: one or more processors; a memory communicably coupled to the one or more processors and storing: a polyline generating module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to generate a polyline along a road segment, wherein the polyline comprises a plurality of nodes wherein each node includes an x-coordinate and a y-coordinate using a reference frame of the polyline; an obstacle module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: detect one or more obstacles in the road segment; and project the polyline into the road segment with the detected one or more obstacles to determine one or more lateral constraints for an output path; and an optimization module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: for each point of a plurality of points of the polyline, determine an optimized y-coordinate for the point based on the one or more lateral constraints, wherein each point includes an x-coordinate and a y-coordinate using the reference frame of the polyline; and generate an optimized polyline for the vehicle using the optimized y-coordinate and x-coordinate for each point.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle is an autonomous or a semi-autonomous vehicle.
3. The system of claim 1, where in the x-coordinate coordinate for each determined point is a fixed coordinate.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions that cause the one or more processors to determine an optimized y-coordinate coordinate for each determined point further comprise instructions that cause the one or more processors to determine the optimized y-coordinate for each determined point using a quadratic program.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions that cause the one or more processors to generate a polyline along a road segment comprise instructions that cause the one or more processors to generate the polyline along a centerline of the road segment.
6. The system of claim 1, the obstacle module further including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to detect one or more lane boundaries of the road segment.
7. The system of claim 6, the obstacle module further including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to project the polyline into the road segment with the detected one or more obstacles and the one or more lane boundaries to determine the one or more lateral constraints.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the optimization module further includes instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to generate the output path for the vehicle in the road segment from the optimized polyline, wherein the output path uses a reference frame of the road segment.
9. A method for generating an optimized polyline for obstacle evasion for a vehicle, the method comprising: receiving a polyline for a road segment, wherein the polyline comprises a plurality of nodes wherein each node includes an x-coordinate and a y-coordinate using a reference frame of the polyline; receiving indications of one or more obstacles in the road segment; receiving one or more lateral constraints; for each point of a plurality of points of the polyline, determining an optimized y-coordinate for the point based on the one or more lateral constraints, wherein each point includes an x-coordinate and a y-coordinate using the reference frame of the polyline; and generating an optimized polyline for the vehicle using the optimized y-coordinate and x-coordinate for each point.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the vehicle is autonomous or semi-autonomous vehicle.
11. The method of claim 9, where in the x-coordinate for each determined point is a fixed coordinate.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein determining an optimized y-coordinate for each point further comprises determining the optimized y-coordinate for each point using a quadratic program.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the polyline is along a centerline of the road segment.
14. The method of claim 9, further comprising generating a path for the vehicle in the road segment from the optimized polyline, wherein the path uses a reference frame of the road segment.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium for generating an optimized polyline for a vehicle that avoids obstacles and including instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: receive a polyline for a road segment, wherein the polyline comprises a plurality of nodes, and further wherein each node includes an x-coordinate and a y-coordinate using a reference frame of the polyline; detect one or more obstacles in the road segment; detect one or more lane boundaries in the road segment; project the polyline into the road segment with the detected one or more obstacles to determine one or more lateral constraints for an output path; for each point of a plurality of points of the polyline, determine an optimized y-coordinate for the point based on the one or more lateral constraints, wherein each point includes an x-coordinate and a y-coordinate using the reference frame of the polyline; and generate an optimized polyline for the vehicle using the optimized y-coordinate and x-coordinate for each point.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the vehicle is autonomous or semi-autonomous vehicle.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, where in the x-coordinate for each point is a fixed coordinate.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further include instructions that cause the one or more processors to determine an optimized y-coordinate for each point further comprise instructions that cause the one or more processors to determine the optimized y-coordinate for each point using a quadratic program.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the polyline is along a centerline of the road segment.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further includes instructions that cause the one or more processors to generate the output path for the vehicle in the road segment from the optimized polyline, wherein the output path uses a reference frame of the road segment.
</claims>
</document>
