<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Aurelis Consulting Sp. z o.o.
</assignee>

<inventors>
OLLIER, Mathieu Christian Daniel
BRACKERTZ, Stephan Andreas
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72749309
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRICE RULE INTEGRATED COMPARISON ENGINE
</title>

<abstract>
A pricing engine may be provided for automatically setting pricing or repricing of goods simultaneously according to a set of rules and objectives. The pricing engine may utilize a database of internal data and external data. The pricing engine may use the data to segment the goods. The engine may further apply pricing rules to the segmented goods, reconcile any deviations using a control framework, and provide a comprehensive output.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer-readable medium for pricing parts, comprising instructions stored thereon, that, when executed on a processor, perform the steps of: accessing part data stored in a database, the part data having at least one of internal part data and external part data; segmenting parts into unique competitive segments using a segmentation logic; applying a pricing rule to set a target price for at least one of an individual part, a parts segment, and all parts; implementing a control framework establishing a tolerance band of maximum pricing deviation from the target price; automatically adjusting target prices outside of the tolerance band according to the control framework to be within the tolerance band; generating a report for presenting the financial impact of the pricing; and creating a rule book defining parameters used in the pricing.
2. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, further comprising creating a guidance line for a segment, wherein the guidance line comprises current or target price positions for individual parts; shifting the guidance line for a segment according to the pricing rule to create a shifted guidance line; and establishing the target prices for a segment according to the shifted guidance line.
3. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 2, wherein the guidance line for a segment maintains a constant shape when shifted.
4. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 2, wherein the tolerance band differs by segment.
5. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, further comprising applying a sell-in scoring algorithm to each part to identify a sell-in segment; applying a sell-out scoring algorithm to each part to identify a sell-out segment; and applying a reconciliation algorithm for each part to identify a final segment.
6. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 5, further comprising applying a special parts filter to separate special parts from a remaining parts pool for segmentation.
7. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the pricing is performed on a country specific basis and wherein the control framework tolerance bands set a maximum deviation for an individual part across multiple countries.
8. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7, further comprising implementing a feedback loop for updating individual country pricing according to pricing results across all countries.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the internal data comprises at least one of sales, price, cost, age, supplier, vehicle application, exterior dimensions, weight, and technical features and characteristics, and wherein the external data comprises a at least one of competitor prices, peer prices, market share, and variables describing a level of competition.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 2, further comprising displaying the guidance line through a user interface, wherein the guidance line display provides visualization of a relationship between two or more of parts, prices, costs, and competition, and wherein the guidance line is manipulatable by the user interface.
11. A method for pricing parts comprising: accessing at least one of internal data and external data stored in a database; segmenting parts into unique competitive segments using a segmentation logic; applying a pricing rule to set a target price for at least one of an individual part, a parts segment, and all parts; implementing a control framework establishing a tolerance band of maximum pricing deviation from the target price; automatically adjusting target prices outside of the tolerance band according to the control framework to be within the tolerance band; generating a report for presenting the financial impact of the pricing; and generating a rule book defining parameters used in the pricing.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising creating a guidance line for a segment, wherein the guidance line comprises current prices or a target relationship of prices for individual parts; shifting the guidance line for a segment according to the pricing rule to create a shifted guidance line; and establishing the target prices for a segment according to the shifted guidance line.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the guidance line for a segment maintains a constant shape when shifted.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the tolerance band differs by segment.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising applying a sell-in scoring algorithm to each part to identify a sell-in segment; applying a sell-out scoring algorithm to each part to identify a sell-out segment; and applying a reconciliation algorithm for each part to identify a final segment.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising applying a special parts filter to separate special parts from a remaining parts pool for segmentation.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the pricing is performed on a country specific basis and wherein the control framework tolerance bands set a maximum deviation for an individual part across multiple countries.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising implementing a feedback loop for updating individual country pricing according to pricing results across all countries.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein the internal data comprises at least one of sales, price, cost, age, supplier, vehicle application, exterior dimensions, weight, and technical features and characteristics, and wherein the external data comprises at least one of competitor prices, peer prices, market share, and variables describing a level of competition.
20. The method of claim 12, further comprising displaying the guidance line through a user interface, wherein the guidance line display provides visualization of a relationship between two or more of parts, prices, costs, and competition, and wherein the guidance line is manipulatable by the user interface.
</claims>
</document>
