<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/10,G06Q20/20,G06Q40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SQUARE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CORMIER, MICHAEL
RIECHERS, CHRISTINA
FEZGA, BORA
MARGOLIS, ZACHARY
ROBBINS, CLAY
MERETAB, JUSTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69946011
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Stored balance with multi-channel withdrawal access
</title>

<abstract>
A stored balance with multi-channel withdrawal access is described. In an example, a server of a payment processing service can determine a stored balance based on funds received from point-of-sale (POS) transactions processed via the payment processing service on behalf of a merchant. The stored balance can be maintained in a ledger of the payment processing service. The server can associate the stored balance with a payment instrument of the merchant. The stored balance can be accessible via the payment instrument substantially immediately after funding of a transaction at the POS and via (i) an instant deposit to a linked bank account of the merchant and (ii) a scheduled deposit to the linked bank account, wherein the instant deposit is available substantially immediately after funding of the transaction and the scheduled deposit is made at a prearranged time after the funding of the transaction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented in part by a server of a payment processing service, the method comprising: receiving, at the server of the payment processing service and from a point-of-sale (POS) application associated with a merchant device of a merchant, transaction data associated with POS transactions between the merchant and customers, wherein the POS application configures the merchant device as a POS terminal for determining and transmitting the transaction data to the payment processing service via a network; determining, by the server of the payment processing service, an amount of funds owed to the merchant based on the transaction data; associating, by the server of the payment processing service, the amount of funds with a stored balance maintained by the payment processing service; associating, by the server of the payment processing service, a physical payment instrument with the stored balance, wherein a portion of the stored balance that is attributable to a POS transaction of POS transactions is accessible via the physical payment instrument substantially immediately after the POS transaction; and transferring, by the server of the payment processing service, at least the portion of the stored balance into a linked bank account of the merchant via at least one of: (i) an instant deposit that is made substantially immediately after the POS transaction; or (ii) a scheduled deposit that is made at a prearranged time after the POS transaction.
2. The method as claim 1 recites, further comprising: receiving additional transaction data associated with transactions between the merchant and other merchants; analyzing the additional transaction data to identify business transactions and personal transactions; and adding indicators to a ledger associated with the stored balance to identify the business transactions and the personal transactions.
3. (canceled)
4. The method as claim 3 recites, further comprising, responsive to activating the physical payment instrument, disabling, at least temporarily, scheduled deposits and setting the physical payment instrument as the default withdrawal channel.
5. The method as claim 1 recites, further comprising: receiving, from the merchant device, an instruction to withhold an additional portion of total funds owed to the merchant for another purpose; and withholding the additional portion of the total funds from the stored balance of the merchant.
6. The method as claim 1 recites, wherein the stored balance is managed via a balance applet executable by the merchant device, and the method further comprises: receiving, via the POS application, payment data associated with the physical payment instrument at a time after activation of the physical payment instrument; determining that the payment data is associated with the physical payment instrument of the merchant and is received independent of another POS transaction; and causing, based on receiving the payment data, a user interface associated with the balance applet to be presented via a display of the merchant device to enable the merchant to manage the stored balance.
7. A system comprising: one or more processors; one or more computer-readable media that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: determining, based on point-of-sale (POS) transactions processed via a payment processing service on behalf of a merchant, a stored balance that is to be maintained by the payment processing service; associating the stored balance with a payment instrument of the merchant, wherein at least a first portion of the stored balance that is attributable to a POS transaction of the POS transactions is accessible via the payment instrument substantially immediately after the POS transaction; and transferring at least the first portion of the stored balance into a linked bank account of the merchant via at least one of: (i) an instant deposit; or (ii) a scheduled deposit, wherein the instant deposit is made substantially immediately after the POS transaction and the scheduled deposit is made at a prearranged time after the POS transaction.
8. The system as claim 7 recites, wherein a default withdrawal channel associated with the stored balance is the scheduled deposit and, responsive to activating the payment instrument, the operations further comprise temporarily disabling the scheduled deposit.
9. The system as claim 7 recites, wherein at least a second portion of the stored balance is further accessible to the merchant for transferring the second portion of the stored balance to a bank account of an employee of the merchant or a vendor from which the merchant acquires inventory items or supplies.
10. (canceled)
11. The system as claim 7 recites, the operations further comprising: receiving additional transaction data associated with one or more additional POS transactions between the merchant and other merchants; analyzing the additional transaction data to classify the one or more additional POS transactions as a business transaction or a personal transaction; and adding one or more indicators to a ledger associated with the stored balance based on classifications of the one or more additional POS transactions.
12. The system as claim 11 recites, the operations further comprising causing a user interface (UI) associated with the stored balance to be presented via a display of a device operable by the merchant, wherein the UI presents at least a portion of the ledger and an individual POS transaction of the one or more additional POS transactions is associated with (i) an indicator of a classification of the individual POS transaction and (ii) a selectable control that, when selected causes the classification to be modified.
13. The system as claim 7 recites, the operations further comprising: receiving additional transaction data associated with one or more additional POS transactions between the merchant and other merchants; and associating an electronic record of an individual POS transaction with an indication of the individual POS transaction in a ledger associated with the stored balance.
14. The system as claim 13 recites, the operations further comprising causing a user interface (UI) associated with the stored balance to be presented via a display of a device operable by the merchant, wherein the UI presents at least a portion of the ledger and the indication of the individual POS transaction in the ledger is associated with a selectable control that, when selected causes the electronic record to be presented.
15. The system as claim 7 recites, the operations further comprising causing a user interface (UI) associated with the stored balance to be presented via a display of a device operable by the merchant responsive to receiving an indication of an interaction between the payment instrument and a payment reader associated with the device.
16. The system as claim 7 recites, the operations further comprising: receiving a request to access a user interface (UI) associated with the stored balance; determining an identification of a user associated with the request; determining, based on one or more permissions, that the user is permitted to access the UI; and causing the UI to be presented via a display of a device operable by the merchant.
17. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: determining, based on point-of-sale (POS) transactions processed via a payment processing service on behalf of a merchant, a stored balance that is maintained by the payment processing service; associating the stored balance with a payment instrument of the merchant, wherein at least a portion of the stored balance that is attributable to a POS transaction of the POS transactions is accessible via the payment instrument substantially immediately after the POS transaction; and transferring at least the portion of the stored balance into a linked bank account of the merchant via at least one of: (i) an instant deposit; or (ii) a scheduled deposit, wherein the instant deposit is made substantially immediately after the POS transaction and the scheduled deposit is made at a prearranged time after the POS transaction.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media as claim 17 recites, wherein a default withdrawal channel associated with the stored balance is the scheduled deposit and, responsive to activating the payment instrument, the operations further comprise temporarily disabling the scheduled deposit.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media as claim 18 recites, wherein the payment instrument is associated with the payment processing service and is activated responsive to an interaction between the payment instrument and a payment reader at a merchant device of the merchant.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media as claim 17 recites, the operations further comprising causing a user interface (UI) associated with the stored balance to be presented via a display of a device operable by the merchant, wherein the UI presents at least a portion of a ledger associated with the stored balance and an individual POS transaction in the ledger is associated with a selectable control that enables the merchant to manage the individual POS transaction.
21. The method as claim 1 recites, wherein the physical payment instrument is provided by the payment processing service and is not associated with the linked bank account.
22. The system as claim 7 recites, wherein the instant deposit is made after the merchant instructs the payment processing service to make the instant deposit.
</claims>
</document>
