<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Woo, Sunghee
</assignee>

<inventors>
Woo, Sunghee
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72748089
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC DEVICE FOR PROVIDING USER-PARTICIPATING-TYPE AI TRAINING SERVICE, AND SERVER AND SYSTEM THEREFOR
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device for providing a user-participating-type artificial intelligence (AI) training service is provided. The electronic device may include a user input receiving unit configured to receive, from a user of the service, initial setting user inputs about an initial setting for AI training and to receive an AI training user input for requesting for the AI training. The device may further include a processor configured to provide, through a screen of the electronic device, an initial setting UI (User Interface) receiving the initial setting user inputs and an AI training UI receiving the AI training user input, and a communication unit configured to transmit, to a service providing server, data corresponding to the initial setting user inputs and the AI training user input and to receive, from the service providing server, initial setting data and/or AI training data generated based on the transmitted data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device for providing a user-participating-type artificial intelligence (AI) training service, the device comprising: a user input receiver configured to receive, from a user of the service, initial setting user inputs about an initial setting for AI training and to receive an AI training user input for requesting for the AI training; a processor configured to provide, through a screen of the electronic device, an initial setting user interface (UI) receiving the initial setting user inputs and an AI training UI receiving the AI training user input; and a communication unit configured to transmit, to a service providing server, data corresponding to the initial setting user inputs and the AI training user input and to receive, from the service providing server, initial setting data and/or AI training data generated based on the transmitted data, and wherein the initial setting user inputs include a user input selecting a subject for the AI training, a user input selecting an AI algorithm from AI algorithms, a user input determining a type of input data for the AI training, and a user input determining a plurality of behavior patterns of the subject.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the communication unit is further configured to receive, from the service providing server, information on an AI training algorithm generated as a result of the AI training, and the information on the AI training algorithm is exclusive information for a user account of the user.
3. The electronic device of claim 2, wherein the communication unit is configured to receive, from the service providing server, the information on the AI training algorithm in response to a user input requesting for the information on the AI training algorithm, and wherein the information on the AI training algorithm is generated by the service providing server if the number of the AI training being executed exceeds a predetermined threshold.
4. The electronic device of claim 2, wherein the information on the AI training algorithm is transmitted to an external device and allows the external device to be operated based on the information on the AI training algorithm.
5. The electronic device of claim 2, wherein information on the AI training algorithm generated as a result of the AI training is configured to be shared with other users using the service.
6. The electronic device of claim 2, wherein the user input receiver is further configured to receive an invitation user input allowing another user to participate in the AI training, wherein the communication unit is further configured to transmit, to another electronic device of the another user, data corresponding to the invitation user input directly or through the service providing server, and wherein the AI training is configured to be further executed through the another electronic device.
7. The electronic device of claim 6, wherein the information on the AI training algorithm corresponds to a result of the AI training executed through the electronic device and the another electronic device, and wherein the information on the AI training algorithm is exclusive information for user accounts of the user and the another user.
8. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the initial setting user inputs further include determining parameter and structure provided based on the selected AI algorithm, and wherein the parameter includes the number of layers for the AI algorithm, node for each of layers, function, and the number of iterations.
9. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of behavior patterns include predetermined behavior patterns and/or an additional behavior pattern directly input by the user, and wherein the predetermined behavior patterns include an additional behavior pattern directly input by another user.
10. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to reduce a data size of input data input through the AI training UI by preprocessing the input data.
11. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the type of input data includes text information, voice information, and image information, and wherein a data size of input data included in the AI training user input is limited within a predetermined threshold.
12. A service providing server for providing a user-participating-type artificial intelligence (AI) training service, the server comprising: a communication unit configured to receive, from an electronic device of a user using the service, a request for an initial setting for AI training and a request for the AI training; and a processor configured to execute, based on the received requests, the initial setting for AI training and AI training, and to transmit, to the electronic device, initial setting data and/or AI training data respectively corresponding to the executed initial setting and the executed AI training, and wherein the request for the initial setting includes a subject for the AI training, an AI algorithm from AI algorithms, a type of input data for the AI training, and a plurality of behavior patterns of the subject.
13. The service providing server of claim 12, wherein the communication unit is further configured to receive, from the electronic device, a request for information on an AI training algorithm, wherein the processor is further configured to generate the information on the AI training algorithm as a result of the AI training, and wherein the information on the AI training algorithm is exclusive information for a user account of the user.
14. The service providing server of claim 13, wherein the processor is configured to generate the information on the AI training algorithm if the number of the AI training being executed exceeds a predetermined threshold.
15. The service providing server of claim 12, wherein the communication unit is further configured to receive, from the electronic device, an invitation request for allowing another user to participate in the AI training, and wherein the processor is further configured to group the user and the another user for the AI training.
16. A system for providing a user-participating-type AI (Artificial Intelligence) training service comprising: a first electronic device configured to provide, through a screen of the first electronic device, an initial setting user interface (UI) and an AI training UI, and to receive, from a user of the service, initial setting user inputs about an initial setting for AI training and an AI training user input for requesting for the AI training; and a service providing server configured to receive, from the first electronic device, a request for the initial setting and the AI training, to execute, based on the received requests, the initial setting for the AI training and the AI training, and to transmit, to the first electronic device, initial setting data and/or AI training data respectively corresponding to the executed initial setting and the executed AI training, and wherein the initial setting user inputs include a user input selecting a subject for the AI training, a user input selecting an AI algorithm from AI algorithms, a user input determining a type of input data for the AI training, and a user input determining a plurality of behavior patterns of the subject.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the first electronic device is further configured to receive, from the service providing server, a user input requesting for information on an AI training algorithm, and to transmit, to the service providing server, a request for the information on the AI training algorithm, and wherein the service providing server is further configured to generate the information on the AI training algorithm as a result of the AI training if the number of the AI training being executed exceeds a predetermined threshold, and to transmit, to the first electronic device, the information on the AI training algorithm.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the information on the AI training algorithm is exclusive information for a user account of the user.
19. The system of claim 16, further comprising a second electronic device of another user using the service, and wherein the first electronic device is further configured to receive an invitation user input allowing the another user to participate in the AI training, and to transmit, to the service providing server, an invitation request corresponding to the invitation user input, and wherein the service providing server is further configured to group the user and the another user for the AI training.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the service providing server is further configured to receive, from the first electronic device or the second electronic device, another request for the AI training, to execute the AI training in response to the received another request, to generate AI training data corresponding to the executed AI training, and to transmit, to the first electronic device and the second electronic device, the generated AI training data.
</claims>
</document>
