<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F16/2457,G06F16/2458
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EXAPTIVE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KING, DAVID
Arra, Stephen
Evans, Frank
Riederer, Alanna
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71608364
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DYNAMIC COMPUTER AIDED INNOVATION VIA MULTIDIMENSIONAL COMPLEMENTARY DIFFERENCE RECOMMENDATION AND EXPLORATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for dynamic computer aided innovation via multidimensional complementary difference recommendation and exploration are disclosed including categorizing a first and second data element in a database with a first attribute and second attribute, respectively, of a first dimension, a dimension being an aspect of a situation, problem, or thing. The first and second data elements are categorized with a first attribute and a second attribute of a second dimension, the second dimension being different from the first dimension. Analyzing the first and second attribute of the first dimension and the first and second attribute of the second dimension to determine a ratio of similarity and dissimilarity; calculating a composite score of the ratio of the first dimension and the ratio of the second dimension; and generating and storing a link between the first and second data element when the composite score is within numerical limits.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: categorizing a first data element in a database with a first attribute of a first dimension, the first dimension being an aspect of a situation, problem, person, or thing; categorizing a second data element in the database with a second attribute of the first dimension; categorizing the first data element with a first attribute of a second dimension, the second dimension being an aspect of the situation, problem, person, or thing that is different from the first dimension; categorizing the second data element in the database with a second attribute of the second dimension; analyzing the first and second attribute of the first dimension to determine a first ratio of similarity and dissimilarity of the first and second attributes of the first dimension; analyzing the first and second attributes of the second dimension to determine a second ratio of similarity and dissimilarity of the first and second attributes of the second dimension; calculating a composite score with the first ratio and the second ratio.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a link between the first and second data element when the composite score is within numerical limits.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the numerical limits are predetermined.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the numerical limits are dynamic.
5. The method of claim 2, further comprising storing the link between the first and second element in the database.
6. A computer system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory computer readable medium storing computer executable code that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: analyze a first attribute and a second attribute of a first dimension to determine a first ratio of similarity and dissimilarity of the first and second attributes of the first dimension, the first attribute being assigned to a first data element, and the second attribute being assigned to a second data element, the first dimension being an aspect of a situation, problem, person, or thing; analyzing a third attribute, and a fourth attribute of a second dimension to determine a second ratio of similarity and dissimilarity of the third attribute and fourth attribute of the second dimension, the third attribute being assigned to the first data element, and the fourth attribute being assigned to the second data element, the second dimension being an aspect of the situation, problem, person, or thing that is different from the first dimension; calculating a composite score with the first ratio and the second ratio.
7. The computer system of claim 6, wherein the computer executable code that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to generate a link between the first and second data element when the composite score is within numerical limits.
8. The computer system of claim 7, wherein the numerical limits are predetermined.
9. The computer system of claim 7, wherein the numerical limits are dynamic.
10. The computer system of claim 7, wherein the computer executable code that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to store the link.
11. The computer system of claim 6, further comprising a database storing data, the data having a plurality of distinct data elements including the first data element and the second data element, each of the plurality of data elements being assigned a plurality of dimensions including the first dimension and the second dimension, and each of the plurality of dimensions being assigned at least one attribute including the first attribute and the second attribute of the first dimension, and the third attribute and the fourth attribute of the second dimension.
12. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the computer executable code that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to display a user interface having data regarding similarities and differences of the first data element and the second data element displayed in fields on a dimension by dimension basis.
13. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the computer executable code that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to display a user interface with a network visualization depicting a combinatorial solution space of composite scores , the user interface having an input mechanism configured to allow a user to interactively explore the combinatorial solution space of composite scores.
14. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the computer executable code that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to display a user interface with an interactive network visualization configured to allow a user to build a team by incrementally selecting data elements and dimensions of interest about those data elements in order to see resulting network dynamics with each addition or subtraction.
15. A computer system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory computer readable medium storing: data having a plurality of distinct data elements, each of the plurality of data elements being assigned a plurality of dimensions including a first dimension and a second dimension, and at least some of the plurality of dimensions being assigned at least one attribute; and computer executable code that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: analyze pairs of distinct data elements to determine one or more dimensional scores, each dimensional score computed by analyzing attributes of the pairs of distinct data elements on a dimension by dimension basis for similarities and dissimilarities, and combining the dimensional scores to form a composite score for the plurality of data elements for the dimensions analyzed; and forming a collaboration team using at least one pair of the data elements having a composite score within numerical limits of a spectrum from most similar to the most dissimilar.
</claims>
</document>
