<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-07-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06F21/31,G06F21/55,G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PIVOTAL SOFTWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KONDAVEETI, ANIRUDH
RADHAKRISHNAN, REGUNATHAN
YU, JIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56609977
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CLASSIFYING USER BEHAVIOR AS ANOMALOUS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on computer storage media, for classifying user behavior as anomalous. One of the methods includes obtaining user behavior data representing behavior of a user in a subject system. An initial model is generated from training data, the initial model having first characteristic features of the training data. A resampling model is generated from the training data and from multiple instances of the first representation for a test time period. A difference between the initial model and the resampling model is computed. The user behavior in the test time period is classified as anomalous based on the difference between the initial model and the resampling model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: obtaining user behavior data representing behavior of a user in a subject system, wherein the user behavior data indicates one or more resources accessed by the user in the subject system and, for each resource accessed by the user, when the resource was accessed; generating test data from the user behavior data, the test data comprising a first representation of resources accessed by the user during a test time period; generating training data from the user behavior data, the training data comprising a respective second representation of resources accessed by the user for each of multiple time periods prior to the test time period; generating an initial model from the training data, the initial model having first characteristic features of the training data; generating a resampling model from the training data and from multiple instances of the first representation for the test time period, the resampling model having second characteristic features of the training data and the multiple instances of the first representation for the test time period; computing a difference between the initial model and the resampling model including comparing the first characteristic features of the training data and the second characteristic features of the training data and the multiple instances of the first representation for the test time period; and classifying the user behavior in the test time period as anomalous based on the difference between the initial model and the resampling model.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the user behavior data comprises user access records that each represent a folder or a file accessed by the user in a file system.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a first matrix that includes vectors of the training data and N instances of a same vector of the test data; and performing principal component analysis on the first matrix to generate a first plurality of principal components of the first matrix; generating a second matrix from a plurality of vectors of the training data; and performing principal component analysis on the second matrix to generate a second plurality of principal components of the second matrix, wherein computing a difference between the initial model and the resampling model comprises computing an angle between one or more of the first plurality of principal components and the second plurality of principal components.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a first matrix that includes vectors of the training data and N instances of a same vector of the test data; performing singular value decomposition on the first matrix to generate a first plurality of principal components of the first matrix; generating a second matrix from a plurality of vectors of the training data; and performing singular value decomposition on the second matrix to generate a second plurality of principal components of the second matrix, wherein computing a difference between the initial model and the resampling model comprises computing an angle between one or more of the first plurality of principal components and the second plurality of principal components.
5. A computer-implemented method comprising: obtaining a plurality of topics, each topic being data representing a plurality of file types that frequently co-occur in user behavior data of individual users; obtaining user behavior data representing behavior of a user in a subject system, wherein the user behavior data indicates file types of files accessed by the user in the subject system and when the file was accessed by the user; generating test data from the user behavior data, the test data comprising a first representation of which topics the user accessed during a test time period according to the file types of the user behavior data; generating training data from the user behavior data, the training data comprising respective second representations of which topics the user accessed in each of multiple time periods prior to the test time period; generating an initial SVD model from the test data; generating a resampling model from the training data from multiple instances of the first representation of which topics the user accessed during the test time period; computing a difference between the initial model and the resampling model; and classifying the user behavior in the test time period as anomalous based on the difference between the initial model and the resampling model.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising generating the plurality of topics from file types of files accessed by multiple users in the subject system.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: generating the topics using a topic modeling process including defining each user to be a document and each file type accessed by each user to be a term in the corresponding document.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein generating the topics using the topic modeling process comprises generating a predetermined number K of topics.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: iterating over a plurality of candidate values of K; and selecting a particular candidate value of K as the predetermined number K.
10. A system comprising: one or more computers and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: obtaining a plurality of topics, each topic being data representing a plurality of file types that frequently co-occur in user behavior data of individual users; obtaining user behavior data representing behavior of a user in a subject system, wherein the user behavior data indicates file types of files accessed by the user in the subject system and when the file was accessed by the user; generating test data from the user behavior data, the test data comprising a first representation of which topics the user accessed during a test time period according to the file types of the user behavior data; generating training data from the user behavior data, the training data comprising respective second representations of which topics the user accessed in each of multiple time periods prior to the test time period; generating an initial SVD model from the test data; generating a resampling model from the training data from multiple instances of the first representation of which topics the user accessed during the test time period; computing a difference between the initial model and the resampling model; and classifying the user behavior in the test time period as anomalous based on the difference between the initial model and the resampling model.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise the plurality of topics from file types of files accessed by multiple users in the subject system.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise: generating the topics using a topic modeling process including defining each user to be a document and each file type accessed by each user to be a term in the corresponding document.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein generating the topics using the topic modeling process comprises generating a predetermined number K of topics.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise: iterating over a plurality of candidate values of K; and selecting a particular candidate value of K as the predetermined number K.
</claims>
</document>
