<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N21/431,H04N21/442,H04N21/45
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GIBBON, DAVID CRAWFORD
LIU ZHU
VOLINSKY, CHRISTOPHER
ZAVESKY, ERIC
PAUL, DEIRDRE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971305
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System for content curation with user context and content leverage
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, a method comprising receiving one or more media content items; creating one or more leveraged content items from the media content item(s) by extracting one or more leverage points from the media content item(s); obtaining user information, such as user preferences and user context; selecting a selected content item from the leveraged content item(s) based on the user information; creating a custom content item by further extracting a subset of the leverage points from the selected content item based on the user information; and presenting the custom content item to the user's equipment. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a processing system having a processor, a plurality of media content items; creating, by the processing system, a plurality of leveraged content items from the plurality of media content items by extracting a plurality of leverage points from the plurality of media content items; obtaining, by the processing system, user information, wherein the user information includes user preferences and user context; selecting, by the processing system, a selected content item from the plurality of leveraged content items based on the user information; creating, by the processing system, a custom content item by further extracting a subset of the plurality of leverage points from the selected content item based on the user information; and presenting, by the processing system, the custom content item to equipment of a user, the user corresponding to the user information wherein the user context comprises a location of the user, wherein a first number of the subset of the plurality of leverage points is used when the user is at home, wherein a second number of the subset of the plurality of leverage points is used when the user is away from home, and wherein the second number is different from the first number.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of leverage points are identified as points of excitement within each media content item based on previous use of at least portions of the media content items.
3. The method of claim 2, further including: monitoring, by the processing system, a consumption of the user of the custom content item; and revising, by the processing system, the leveraged content item of the plurality of leveraged content items corresponding to the selected content item based on the consumption of the user of the custom content item.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of media content items comprise sporting events and wherein the plurality of leverage points are identified as points within each sporting event that impacts an outcome of the sporting event.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of leverage points are identified as points within each media content item based on feedback from previous viewers of the media content items.
6. (canceled)
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first number is greater than the second number, such that the custom content item is longer when the user is at home versus when the user is away from home.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the user context comprises the equipment of the user.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein a third number of the subset of the plurality of leverage points is used when the equipment of the user is mobile, wherein a fourth number of the subset of the plurality of leverage points is used when the equipment of the user is not mobile, and wherein the third number is less than the fourth number, such that the custom content item is shorter when the equipment of the user is mobile versus when the equipment of the user is not mobile.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the user context comprises an activity of the user.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein a third number of the subset of the plurality of leverage points is used when the user is moving, wherein a fourth number of the subset of the plurality of leverage points is used when the user is stationary, and wherein the third number is less than the fourth number, such that the custom content item is shorter when the user is moving versus when the user is stationary.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting the selected content item is based on input from the user.
13. The method of claim 12, further including: providing, by the processing system to the equipment of the user, a group of the plurality of leveraged content items, the group being chosen based on the user information; and receiving, by the processing system to the equipment of the user, the input.
14. A system comprising: a processor; and a memory storing executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, perform operations comprising: obtaining a plurality of media content items; obtaining user information related to a user, wherein the user information comprises user preferences and user context; creating a plurality of leveraged content items from the plurality of media content items by extracting a plurality of leverage points from the plurality of media content items according to the user information; selecting a subset of the plurality of leveraged content items based on the user information; presenting, to equipment of the user, an identification of the subset of the plurality of leveraged content items; receiving, from the equipment of the user, an indication of a selected content item of the subset of the plurality of leveraged content items; creating a custom content item by further extracting a subset of the plurality of leverage points from the selected content item based on the user information; and presenting the custom content item to the equipment of the user, wherein the user context comprises a location of the user, wherein a first number of the subset of the plurality of leverage points is used when the user is at home, wherein a second number of the subset of the plurality of leverage points is used when the user is away from home, and wherein the second number is different from the first number.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the plurality of leverage points are identified as points of excitement within each media content item based on previous use of at least portions of the media content items.
16. The system of claim 15, further including: monitoring a consumption of the user of the custom content item; revising the user information based on the consumption of the user of the custom content item; and revising the leveraged content item of the plurality of leveraged content items corresponding to the selected content item based on the consumption of the user of the custom content item.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein each leveraged content item of the plurality of leveraged content items corresponds to one of the plurality of media content items and wherein the user context comprises a location of the user, the equipment of the user and an activity of the user.
18. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, perform operations comprising: obtaining a plurality of media content items; obtaining user information related to a user, wherein the user information comprises user preferences and user context; creating a plurality of leveraged content items from the plurality of media content items by extracting a plurality of leverage points from the plurality of media content items, wherein each leveraged content item of the plurality of leveraged content items corresponds to one of the plurality of media content items; selecting a subset of the plurality of leveraged content items based on the user information; presenting, to equipment of the user, an identification of the subset of the plurality of leveraged content items; receiving, from the equipment of the user, an indication of a selected content item of the subset of the plurality of leveraged content items; creating a custom content item by further extracting a subset of the plurality of leverage points from the selected content item based on the user information; and presenting the custom content item to the equipment of the user, wherein the user context comprises a location of the user, wherein a first number of the subset of the plurality of leverage points is used when the user is at home, wherein a second number of the subset of the plurality of leverage points is used when the user is away from home, and wherein the second number is different from the first number.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the plurality of leverage points are identified as points of excitement within each media content item based on previous use of at least portions of the media content items.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the operations further comprise: monitoring a consumption of the user of the custom content item; revising the user information based on the consumption of the user of the custom content item; and revising the leveraged content item of the plurality of leveraged content items corresponding to the selected content item based on the consumption of the user of the custom content item.
21. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the user context comprises the equipment of the user, wherein a third number of the subset of the plurality of leverage points is used when the equipment of the user is mobile, wherein a fourth number of the subset of the plurality of leverage points is used when the equipment of the user is not mobile, and wherein the third number is less than the fourth number, such that the custom content item is shorter when the equipment of the user is mobile versus when the equipment of the user is not mobile.
</claims>
</document>
