<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B13/02,G05B19/418,G05B23/02,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N3/00,G06N3/02,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N5/04,G06N7/00,H04B17/309,H04B17/318,H04L1/00,H04L1/18,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRONG FORCE IOT PORTFOLIO 2016
</assignee>

<inventors>
DESAI, MEHUL
DUFFY, JR., GERALD WILLIAM
CELLA, CHARLES HOWARD
MCGUCKIN, JEFFREY P.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63669288
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DATA COLLECTION AND FREQUENCY EVALUATION FOR A VEHICLE STEERING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for data collection and frequency evaluation for a vehicle steering system are disclosed. An example monitoring system for data collection in a vehicle steering system may include a vehicle steering system comprising a rack, a pinion, and a steering column; a data acquisition circuit to interpret a plurality of detection values corresponding to a plurality of input sensors, each input sensors operationally coupled to the vehicle; and a data storage circuit to store one or more operating frequencies of the vehicle. The example system may further include a frequency evaluation circuit to detect an operating signal, wherein the operating signal comprises a frequency higher than the one or more operating frequencies; and a response circuit structured to perform at least one operation in response to the detected operating signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A monitoring system for data collection in a vehicle steering system, the monitoring system comprising: a vehicle steering system comprising a rack, a pinion, and a steering column; a data acquisition circuit structured to interpret a plurality of detection values, each of the plurality of detection values corresponding to at least one of a plurality of input sensors, each of the plurality of input sensors operationally coupled to the rack, the pinion, or the steering column, and communicatively coupled to the data acquisition circuit; a data storage circuit structured to store one or more operating frequencies of the rack, the pinion, or the steering column; and a frequency evaluation circuit structured to detect an operating signal in response to the plurality of detection values, wherein the operating signal comprises a frequency higher than the one or more operating frequencies; and a response circuit structured to perform at least one operation in response to the detected operating signal.
2. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the at least one operation comprises performing at least one of: adjusting a sampling rate of at least one of the plurality of detection values; requesting a maintenance event; changing a utilized input sensor corresponding to at least one of the plurality of input sensors; storing event data related to the vehicle steering system and the operating signal; and providing one of an alert or a notification in response to the operating signal.
3. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the frequency evaluation circuit is further structured to detect a misalignment in response to the operating signal indicating a change in energy at frequencies at least twice a frequency of at least one of the one or more operating frequencies.
4. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the operating signal indicates an anomalous condition.
5. The monitoring system of claim 4, wherein the anomalous condition comprises a pre-failure mode condition for the vehicle steering system.
6. The monitoring system of claim 1, further comprising a data analysis circuit structured to analyze at least two of the plurality of detection values, to determine a relative phase value between the at least two of the plurality of detection values, and to detect an anomalous condition in response to the relative phase value.
7. The monitoring system of claim 6, wherein the vehicle steering system comprises one or more rotating components, and wherein the data analysis circuit is further structured to perform band-pass tracking associated with the one or more rotating components to detect the anomalous condition.
8. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of input sensors comprises a vibration sensor, and wherein the frequency evaluation circuit is further structured to detect a noise pattern from the vehicle steering system in response to detection values from the vibration sensor.
9. The monitoring system of claim 8, wherein the frequency evaluation circuit is further structured to detect the noise pattern at frequencies higher than a frequency at which one or more rotating components of the vehicle steering system rotates.
10. The monitoring system of claim 7, wherein detecting the anomalous condition comprises performing a frequency analysis at a selected multiple of a rotational speed of at least one of the one or more rotating components.
11. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the frequency evaluation circuit is further structured to perform a frequency analysis at a selected multiple of at least one of the one or more operating frequencies.
12. A method for collecting data in a vehicle steering system, the method comprising: collecting data from a plurality of input channels, wherein a subset of the plurality of input channels is communicatively coupled to sensors measuring operational parameters of a rack, a pinion, and a steering column of the vehicle steering system; storing one or more operating frequencies related to an operation of at least one of the rack, the pinion, or the steering column; interpreting a plurality of detection values from the collected data, each of the plurality of detection values corresponding to at least one of the plurality of input channels; and detecting an operating signal on one of the plurality of input channels at a frequency higher than at least one of the one or more operating frequencies.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising analyzing at least two of the plurality of input channels, and wherein detecting the operating signal comprises detecting an anomalous condition in response to a relative phase difference between the at least two of the plurality of input channels.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising initiating an action on the vehicle steering system based on the detection of the operating signal.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein initiating the action comprises performing at least one of: adjusting a sampling rate of at least one of the plurality of input channels; requesting a maintenance event; changing a utilized sensor corresponding to at least one of the plurality of input channels; storing event data related to the vehicle steering system and the anomalous condition; and providing one of an alert or a notification in response to the anomalous condition.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein initiating the action comprises performing at least one of: adjusting a sampling rate of at least one of the plurality of input channels; requesting a maintenance event; changing a utilized sensor corresponding to at least one of the plurality of input channels; storing event data related to the vehicle steering system and the operating signal; and providing one of an alert or a notification in response to the operating signal.
17. The method of claim 12, further comprising detecting a misalignment in response to the operating signal indicating a change in energy at frequencies at least twice a frequency of at least one of the one or more operating frequencies.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the operating signal indicates an anomalous condition.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the anomalous condition is a pre-failure mode condition for the vehicle steering system.
20. The method of claim 18, further comprising performing band-pass tracking associated with one or more rotating components of the vehicle steering system to detect the anomalous condition.
21. The method of claim 12, wherein at least one of the plurality of input channels is communicatively coupled to a vibration sensor, and wherein the method further comprises detecting a noise pattern from the vehicle steering system in response to detection values from the vibration sensor.
22. The method of claim 18, wherein detecting the anomalous condition comprises performing a frequency analysis at a selected multiple of a rotational speed of one or more rotating components of the vehicle steering system.
23. The method of claim 18, wherein detecting the anomalous condition comprises performing a frequency analysis at a selected multiple of at least one of the one or more operating frequencies.
</claims>
</document>
