<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/10,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN XI
PU, WEN
LIANG, KEQING
GEYIK, SAHIN C.
WANG, YU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73016680
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PACING FOR BALANCED DELIVERY
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments provide a system that performs pacing for balanced delivery. During operation, the system obtains predicted response rates associated with impressions of a content item delivered within an online system and a cost per action (CPA) for the content item. Next, the system determines an impression-based spending for the content item based on the predicted response rates and the CPA. The system then calculates a pacing score for the content item based on the impression-based spending. Finally, the system adjusts subsequent interactions with the content item based on the pacing score.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform a method, the method comprising: obtaining predicted response rates for a job and a cost per action (CPA) for the job; determining an impression-based spending for the job based on the predicted response rates and the CPA; and outputting the impression-based spending for use in evaluating utilization of a budget for the job.
2. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, the method further comprising: calculating a pacing score for the job based on the impression-based spending; and adjusting subsequent delivery of the job based on the pacing score.
3. A method, comprising: obtaining predicted response rates associated with impressions of a content item delivered within an online system and a cost per action (CPA) for the content item; determining, by one or more computer systems, an impression-based spending for the content item based on the predicted response rates and the CPA; and outputting the impression-based spending for use in evaluating utilization of a budget for the content item.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: calculating a pacing score for the content item based on the impression-based spending; and adjusting subsequent interactions with the content item based on the pacing score.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein calculating the pacing score for the content item based on the impression-based spending comprises: calculating the pacing score based on a previous value of the pacing score, a desired spending for the content item, and the impression-based spending.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein calculating the pacing score for the content item based on the impression-based spending comprises: calculating the pacing score from a higher value of the impression-based spending and an actual spending for the content item.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein adjusting subsequent interactions with the content item based on the pacing score comprises: determining, based on the pacing score, a position of the content item in a ranking of content items; and outputting the ranking to one or more members of the online system.
8. The method of claim 3, wherein obtaining the predicted response rates comprises: inputting features associated with the content item and members of the online system into a machine learning model; and obtaining the predicted response rates of the members, given the impressions of the content item by the members, as output from the machine learning model.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein obtaining the predicted response rates further comprises: updating the predicted response rates based on the positions of the content item in rankings outputted to the members.
10. The method of claim 3, wherein obtaining the CPA comprises: obtaining an updated price for the content item based on an initial price of the content item and one or more dynamic adjustments to the initial price.
11. The method of claim 3, wherein determining the impression-based spending for the content item based on the predicted response rates and the CPA comprises: multiplying the predicted response rates with corresponding values for the CPA to produce expected costs of the impressions; and summing the expected costs of the impressions into the impression-based spending for the content item.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein determining the impression-based spending for the content item based on the predicted response rates and the CPA further comprises: selecting the predicted response rates and the CPA to span a time period over which a budget for the content item has been utilized.
13. The method of claim 3, wherein the content item comprises a job.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the predicted response rates comprise at least one of: a likelihood of a click on the job; and a likelihood of an application for the job.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the CPA comprises at least one of: a cost per click (CPC); and a cost per job application.
16. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: obtain predicted response rates associated with impressions of a content item delivered within an online system and a cost per action (CPA) for the content item; determine an impression-based spending for the content item based on the predicted response rates and the CPA; calculate a pacing score for the content item based on the impression-based spending; and adjust subsequent interactions with the content item based on the pacing score.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein calculating the pacing score for the content item based on the impression-based spending comprises at least one of: calculating the pacing score based on a previous value of the pacing score, a desired spending for the content item, and the impression-based spending; and calculating the pacing score from a higher value of the impression-based spending and an actual spending for the content item.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein determining the impression-based spending for the content item based on the predicted response rates and the CPA comprises: multiplying the predicted response rates with corresponding values for the CPA to produce expected costs of the impressions; and summing the expected costs of the impressions into the impression-based spending for the content item.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein determining the impression-based spending for the content item based on the predicted response rates and the CPA further comprises: selecting the predicted response rates and the CPA to span a time period over which a budget for the content item has been utilized.
20. The system of claim 16, wherein: the content item comprises a job; the predicted response rates comprise a predicted click-through rate (CTR) for the job; and the CPA comprises a cost per click (CPC) for the job.
</claims>
</document>
