<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEC LABORATORIES AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, HAIFENG
CHENG, WEI
NI, JINGCHAO
TANG, LUAN
ZONG, BO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69773443
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TEMPORAL BEHAVIOR ANALYSIS OF NETWORK TRAFFIC
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for implementing sequence data based temporal behavior analysis (SDTBA) to extract features for characterizing temporal behavior of network traffic are provided. The method includes extracting communication and profile data associated with one or more devices to determine sequences of data associated with the devices. The method includes generating temporal features to model anomalous network traffic. The method also includes inputting, into an anomaly detection process for anomalous network traffic, the temporal features and the sequences of data associated with the devices and formulating a list of prediction results of anomalous network traffic associated with the devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for implementing sequence data based temporal behavior analysis (SDTBA) to extract features for characterizing temporal behavior of network traffic, comprising: extracting communication and profile data associated with at least one device to determine a plurality of sequences of data associated with the at least one device; generating, by a processor device, at least one temporal feature to model anomalous network traffic; inputting, into at least one anomaly detection process for anomalous network traffic, the at least one temporal feature and the plurality of sequences of data associated with the at least one device; and formulating a list of prediction results of anomalous network traffic associated with the at least one device.
2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein extracting the communication and profile data associated with the at least one device further comprises: determining, for each of the plurality of sequences, a sequence of time points {t1, . . . , tn}, each time point ti (i=, . . . , n) indicates there is data at that time point.
3. The method as recited in claim 1, Wherein extracting the communication and profile data associated with the at least one device further comprises: normalizing each time stamp of the communication and profile data by min-max normalization.
4. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein generating the at least one temporal feature further comprises: generating a short-term usage feature, wherein short-term usage is determined based on interval of data and a number of time points.
5. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein generating the at least one temporal feature further comprises: generating a long gap between data feature, wherein a maximal gap of no data is defined as:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?maxgap=max1≤i≤k−1(ti+1−ti),description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? wherein each time point ti (i=1, . . . , n) indicates there is data at that time point.
6. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein generating the at least one temporal feature further comprises: generating a cluster pattern feature, wherein a cluster pattern is determined based on a density of time points, wherein each time point ti (i=1, . . . , n) indicates there is a data at that time point.
7. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein generating the cluster pattern further comprises: generating one or more of a maximal density feature, a minimal density feature, a min-max density ratio feature, a count of bins with high density feature and a count of bins with low density feature.
8. The method as recited in claim 7, wherein generating the maximal density feature further comprises: generating, for each sequence, a sliding window of size T that slides an entire monitoring time of each sequence and determining: wherein a maximal density is a maximal value of densities of all sliding windows of the plurality of sequences.
9. The method as recited in claim 7, wherein generating the minimal density feature further comprises: generating, for each sequence, a sliding window of size T slides an entire monitoring time of each sequence and determining: wherein a minimal density is a minimal value of densities of all sliding windows of the plurality of sequences.
10. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein inputting, into the at least one anomaly detection process for anomalous network traffic, further comprises: inputting to at least one of density based spatial clustering of applications with noise (DBSCAN), isolation forest, and one-class support vector machine to detect anomalies.
11. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein inputting, into the at least one anomaly detection process for anomalous network traffic, further comprises: implementing the at least one anomaly detection process as an unsupervised process.
12. A computer system for implementing sequence data based temporal behavior analysis (SDTBA) to extract features for characterizing temporal behavior of network traffic, comprising: a processor device operatively coupled to a memory device, the processor device being configured to: extract communication and profile data associated with at least e device to determine a plurality of sequences of data associated with the at least one device; generate at least one temporal feature to model anomalous network traffic; input, into at least one anomaly detection process for anomalous network traffic, the at least one temporal feature and the plurality of sequences of data associated with the at least one device; and formulate a list of prediction results of anomalous network traffic associated with the at least one device.
13. The system as recited in claim 12, wherein, when extracting the communication and profile data associated with the at least one device, the processor device is further configured to: determine, for each of the plurality of sequences, a sequence of time points {t1, . . . , tn}, each time point ti (i=1, . . . , n) indicates there is data at that time point.
14. The system as recited in claim 12, wherein, when extracting communication and profile data associated with the at least one device, the processor device is further configured to: normalize each time stamp of the communication and profile data by min-max normalization.
15. The system as recited in claim 12, wherein, when generating the at least one temporal feature, the processor device is further configured to: generate a short-term usage feature, wherein short-term usage is determined based on interval of data and number of time points.
16. The system as recited in claim 12, wherein, when generating the at least one temporal feature, the processor device is further configured to: generate a long gap between data feature, wherein a maximal gap of no data is defined as:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?maxgap=max1≤i≤k−1(ti+1−ti)description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? wherein each time point ti (i=1, . . . , n) indicates there is data at that time point.
17. The system as recited in claim 12, wherein, when generating the at least one temporal feature, the processor device is further configured to: generate a cluster pattern feature, wherein a cluster pattern is determined based on a density of time points, wherein each time point ti (i=1, . . . , n) indicates there is data at that time point.
18. The system as recited claim 17, wherein, when generating the cluster pattern feature, the processor device is further configured to: generate one or more of a maximal density feature, a minimal density feature, a min-max density ratio feature, a count of bins with high density feature and a count of bins with low density feature.
19. The system as recited in claim 17, wherein, when generating the maximal density feature, the processor device is further configured to: generate, for each sequence, a sliding window of size T that slides an entire monitoring time of each sequence and determining: wherein a maximal density is a maximal value of densities of all sliding windows of the plurality of sequences.
20. A computer program product for implementing sequence data based temporal behavior analysis (SDTBA) to extract features for characterizing temporal behavior of network traffic, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform the method comprising: extracting communication and profile data associated with at least one device to determine a plurality of sequences of data associated with the at least one device; generating, by a processor device, at least one temporal feature to model anomalous network traffic; inputting, into at least one anomaly detection process for anomalous network traffic, the at least one temporal feature and the plurality of sequences of data associated with the at least one device; and formulating a list of prediction results of anomalous network traffic associated with the at least one device.
</claims>
</document>
