<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/10,G06K9/62,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G11C16/10,G11C16/26,G11C16/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SK HYNIX
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG, FAN
XIONG, CHENRONG
LU, XUANXUAN
Asadi, Meysam
Chen, Jianqing
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73653561
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEEP LEARNING BASED REGRESSION FRAMEWORK FOR READ THRESHOLDS IN A NAND FLASH MEMORY
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques related to improving a performance related to at least data reads from a memory are described. In an example, a computer system hosts a regression model that includes a neural network. The neural network is trained based on training data that is measured under different combinations of operational conditions and storage conditions. In operation, actual operational and storage conditions associated with the memory are input to the regression model. The neural network outputs a voltage read threshold based on these actual conditions. The computer system uses the voltage read threshold to read data stored in the memory.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system for reading data from storage, the computer system comprising: a processor; and a memory communicatively coupled with the processor, the memory configured to store (i) client data as a codeword that comprises bits based on an error correction code (ECC) encoding procedure, (ii) a regression model, and (iii) computer-readable instructions, wherein: the regression model comprises a neural network, the neural network comprises an output node, the output node corresponds to a voltage read threshold for the memory, and the computer-readable instructions upon execution by the processor configure the computer system to: input, to the regression model, data related to one or more input conditions associated with the memory; receive the voltage read threshold based on the data; and read the client data based on the voltage read threshold, wherein reading the client data comprises decoding the codeword based on an ECC decoding procedure that uses values for the bits based on the voltage read threshold.
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the one or more input conditions comprise an operational condition and a storage condition.
3. The computer system of claim 2, wherein the operational condition comprises at least one of an endurance, a retention, an age, or a temperature associated with the memory.
4. The computer system of claim 2, wherein the memory is a NAND flash memory, and wherein the storage condition comprises at least one of a read distribution, a die index, a block index, or a wordline index associated with the NAND flash memory.
5. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the neural network comprises a plurality of output nodes, each corresponding to outputting one voltage read threshold.
6. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the memory comprises a memory block, wherein the memory block comprises a memory page, and wherein the neural network comprises a number of output nodes based on the memory page.
7. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the regression model comprises a second neural network, wherein the memory comprises a memory block, wherein the memory block comprises a first memory page and a second memory page, wherein the neural network is associated with the first memory page and comprises a first number of output nodes based on the first memory page, wherein the second neural network is associated with the second memory page and comprises a second number of output nodes based on the second memory page.
8. The computer system of claim 7, wherein the first number of output nodes is different from the second number of output nodes.
9. The computer system of claim 7, wherein the memory is a triple cell level (TLC) NAND flash memory, wherein the first memory page corresponds to a most significant bit (MSB) page, wherein the second memory page corresponds to a least significant bit (LSB) page, wherein the first number of output nodes is three, and wherein the second number of output nodes is two.
10. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the memory further comprises a central significant bit (CSB) page, wherein the regression model comprises a third neural network, wherein the third neural network is associated with the CSB page and comprises two outputs nodes based on the CSB page.
11. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the memory comprises a plurality of memory pages, wherein the regression model comprises a plurality of neural networks each associated with one of the plurality of memory pages and having a number of output nodes based on the associated memory page.
12. A computer-implemented method for reading client data from a memory, the computer-implemented method comprising: inputting, to a regression model, data related to one or more input conditions associated with the memory, wherein the regression model comprises a neural network, and wherein the neural network comprises an output node corresponding to a voltage read threshold for the memory; receiving the voltage read threshold based on the data; and reading, from the memory storing the client data as a codeword that comprises bits based on an error correction code (ECC) encoding procedure, the client data based on the voltage read threshold, wherein reading the client data comprises decoding the codeword based on an ECC decoding procedure that uses values for the bits based on the voltage read threshold.
13. (canceled)
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the neural network is trained to output the voltage read threshold from the output node based on the data related to the one or more input conditions.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, further comprising training the neural network based on training data that is measured under combinations of operational conditions and storage conditions, wherein the training data comprises at least one of endurance data, retention data, age data, temperature data, read distribution data, die index data, block index data, or wordline index data.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the training is supervised training that uses a loss function, wherein the loss function is computed based on voltage read thresholds each corresponding to one of the combinations of operational conditions and storage conditions.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the one or more input conditions comprises a first set of discrete input conditions and a second set of continuous input conditions.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, upon execution on a computer system that includes a memory storing client data, cause the computer system to perform operations comprising: inputting, to a regression model, data related to one or more input conditions associated with the memory, wherein the regression model comprises a neural network, and wherein the neural network comprises an output node corresponding to a voltage read threshold for the memory; receiving the voltage read threshold based on the data; and reading, from the memory storing the client data as a codeword that comprises bits based on an error correction code (ECC) encoding procedure, the client data based on the voltage read threshold, wherein reading the client data comprises decoding the codeword based on an ECC decoding procedure that uses values for the bits based on the voltage read threshold.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the memory comprises a plurality of memory pages, wherein the regression model comprises a plurality of neural networks each associated with one of the plurality of memory pages and having a number of output nodes based on the associated memory page.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the operations comprise training the neural network based on training data and a loss function, wherein the training data that is measured under combinations of operational conditions and storage conditions, and wherein the loss function is computed based on voltage read thresholds each corresponding to one of the combinations of operational conditions and storage conditions.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the regression model comprises a second neural network, wherein the memory comprises a memory block, wherein the memory block comprises a first memory page and a second memory page, wherein the neural network is associated with the first memory page and comprises a first number of output nodes based on the first memory page, wherein the second neural network is associated with the second memory page and comprises a second number of output nodes based on the second memory page.
</claims>
</document>
