<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q50/26,G08B27/00,H04W4/024,H04W4/33
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SELBY DAVID A.
WOLFSON CHARLES D.
PANDIT, SUSHAIN
GROSS, BRENT
SMART, OTIS
VENKATESAN, HARIKUMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69946222
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
First responder feedback-based emergency response floor identification
</title>

<abstract>
Known geospatial device coordinates are clustered using a clustering algorithm into device clusters with cluster centroids. Each device cluster corresponds to a geographical location. Each cluster centroid is annotated with a regional floor-height value of the respective geographical location. Current device data of a device, including geographic location and elevation, are received. An approximate current floor upon which the first device is located is determined using the elevation of the first device and the annotated regional floor-height value of a closest cluster centroid, the closest cluster centroid determined based, at least in part, on the geographic location of the first device. An individual is directed to the device's geographic location and approximate current floor. The device clusters are re-computed based upon feedback from the individual regarding the device's actual floor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: clustering known geospatial device coordinates using a clustering algorithm, resulting in device clusters with corresponding cluster centroids, each device cluster corresponding to a particular geographical location; annotating each cluster centroid with a regional floor-height value of the respective particular geographical location; receiving current device data comprising geographic location and elevation of a first device; determining an approximate current floor upon which the first device is located using the received elevation of the first device and the annotated regional floor-height value of a closest cluster centroid, the closest cluster centroid being determined based, at least in part, on the received geographic location of the first device; directing an individual to the geographic location and the approximate current floor of the first device; re-computing the device clusters based upon feedback received from the individual regarding an actual current floor of the first device; and determining a current floor for a second device based upon the re-computed device clusters.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where: the feedback comprises the actual current floor of the first device; the actual current floor of the first device is different from the determined approximate current floor of the first device; the actual current floor of the first device is used to determine an inter-floor height of the geographic location of the first device; and re-computing the device clusters based upon the feedback comprises re-clustering the known geospatial device coordinates of the geographic location of the first device into elevation regions based upon the determined inter-floor height.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where: the feedback comprises a confirmation that the determined approximate current floor upon which the first device is located is the actual current floor upon which the first device is located; and re-computing the device clusters based upon the feedback comprises increasing a confidence measure of the closest cluster centroid associated with the geographic location of the first device.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where: the known geospatial device coordinates comprise latitude coordinates, longitude coordinates, and elevation coordinates of a plurality of devices; and the regional floor-height value annotated to each cluster centroid comprises one of a publicly known regional floor-height value or an approximate regional floor-height value of the respective particular geographical location.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where the clustering algorithm is a machine learning-based clustering algorithm and comprises one of vector quantization-based k-means clustering or density-based spatial clustering of applications with noise (DBSCAN).
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where the individual comprises an emergency first responder, and where determining the approximate current floor upon which the first device is located comprises determining the approximate current floor upon which the first device is located during an emergency response situation.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where software programmed according to the computer-implemented method is provided as a service in a cloud environment.
8. A system, comprising: a memory; and a processor programmed to: cluster, within the memory, known geospatial device coordinates using a clustering algorithm, resulting in device clusters with corresponding cluster centroids, each device cluster corresponding to a particular geographical location; annotate each cluster centroid with a regional floor-height value of the respective particular geographical location; receive current device data comprising geographic location and elevation of a first device; determine an approximate current floor upon which the first device is located using the received elevation of the first device and the annotated regional floor-height value of a closest cluster centroid, the closest cluster centroid being determined based, at least in part, on the received geographic location of the first device; direct an individual to the geographic location and the approximate current floor of the first device; re-compute the device clusters based upon feedback received from the individual regarding an actual current floor of the first device; and determine a current floor for a second device based upon the re-computed device clusters.
9. The system of claim 8, where: the feedback comprises the actual current floor of the first device; the actual current floor of the first device is different from the determined approximate current floor of the first device; the actual current floor of the first device is used to determine an inter-floor height of the geographic location of the first device; and in being programmed to re-compute the device clusters based upon the feedback, the processor is programmed to re-cluster the known geospatial device coordinates of the geographic location of the first device into elevation regions based upon the determined inter-floor height.
10. The system of claim 8, where: the feedback comprises a confirmation that the determined approximate current floor upon which the first device is located is the actual current floor upon which the first device is located; and in being programmed to re-compute the device clusters based upon the feedback, the processor is programmed to increase a confidence measure of the closest cluster centroid associated with the geographic location of the first device.
11. The system of claim 8, where: the known geospatial device coordinates comprise latitude coordinates, longitude coordinates, and elevation coordinates of a plurality of devices; and the regional floor-height value annotated to each cluster centroid comprises one of a publicly known regional floor-height value or an approximate regional floor-height value of the respective particular geographical location.
12. The system of claim 8, where the clustering algorithm is a machine learning-based clustering algorithm and comprises one of vector quantization-based k-means clustering or density-based spatial clustering of applications with noise (DBSCAN).
13. The system of claim 8, where the individual comprises an emergency first responder, and where in being programmed to determine the approximate current floor upon which the first device is located, the processor is programmed to determine the approximate current floor upon which the first device is located during an emergency response situation.
14. A computer program product, comprising: a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith, where the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se and where the computer readable program code when executed on a computer causes the computer to: cluster known geospatial device coordinates using a clustering algorithm, resulting in device clusters with corresponding cluster centroids, each device cluster corresponding to a particular geographical location; annotate each cluster centroid with a regional floor-height value of the respective particular geographical location; receive current device data comprising geographic location and elevation of a first device; determine an approximate current floor upon which the first device is located using the received elevation of the first device and the annotated regional floor-height value of a closest cluster centroid, the closest cluster centroid being determined based, at least in part, on the received geographic location of the first device; direct an individual to the geographic location and the approximate current floor of the first device; re-compute the device clusters based upon feedback received from the individual regarding an actual current floor of the first device; and determine a current floor for a second device based upon the re-computed device clusters.
15. The computer program product of claim 14, where: the feedback comprises the actual current floor of the first device; the actual current floor of the first device is different from the determined approximate current floor of the first device; the actual current floor of the first device is used to determine an inter-floor height of the geographic location of the first device; and in causing the computer to re-compute the device clusters based upon the feedback, the computer readable program code when executed on the computer causes the computer to re-cluster the known geospatial device coordinates of the geographic location of the first device into elevation regions based upon the determined inter-floor height.
16. The computer program product of claim 14, where: the feedback comprises a confirmation that the determined approximate current floor upon which the first device is located is the actual current floor upon which the first device is located; and in causing the computer to re-compute the device clusters based upon the feedback, the computer readable program code when executed on the computer causes the computer to increase a confidence measure of the closest cluster centroid associated with the geographic location of the first device.
17. The computer program product of claim 14, where: the known geospatial device coordinates comprise latitude coordinates, longitude coordinates, and elevation coordinates of a plurality of devices; and the regional floor-height value annotated to each cluster centroid comprises one of a publicly known regional floor-height value or an approximate regional floor-height value of the respective particular geographical location.
18. The computer program product of claim 14, where the clustering algorithm is a machine learning-based clustering algorithm and comprises one of vector quantization-based k-means clustering or density-based spatial clustering of applications with noise (DBSCAN).
19. The computer program product of claim 14, where the individual comprises an emergency first responder, and where in causing the computer to determine the approximate current floor upon which the first device is located, the computer readable program code when executed on the computer causes the computer to determine the approximate current floor upon which the first device is located during an emergency response situation.
20. The computer program product of claim 14, where software programmed according to the computer is provided as a service in a cloud environment.
</claims>
</document>
