<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PANASONIC INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SUMI, SADAYUKI
NISHIYAMA TAKASHI
NAKAJIMA, HIROBUMI
MATSUMURA, YOSHIHIRO
ABE, KENGO
TAKAHASHI, ATSUSHI
SASABE, KOHJI
KOIZUMI, Kyohei
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66246455
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEMENTIA DETERMINATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A dementia determination system (100) includes: an acquisition unit (111) configured to acquire a long press ratio which is a ratio of a number of long presses in which a button of an operating device (140) is pressed for a time longer than a reference time, to a number of presses of the button of the operating device (140) used by a user to operate an electric device (130); a determination unit (112) configured to determine a dementia level of the user based on the long press ratio acquired by the acquisition unit (111); and an output unit (113) configured to output dementia information indicating the dementia level determined by the determination unit (112), wherein the determination unit (112) is configured to determine that the dementia level is more severe as the long press ratio is lower.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A dementia determination system, comprising: an acquisition unit configured to acquire a long press ratio which is a ratio of a number of long presses in which a button of an operating device is pressed for a time longer than a reference time, to a number of presses of the button of the operating device used by a user to operate an electric device; a determination unit configured to determine a dementia level of the user based on the long press ratio acquired by the acquisition unit; and an output unit configured to output dementia information indicating the dementia level determined by the determination unit, wherein the determination unit is configured to determine that the dementia level is more severe as the long press ratio is lower.
2. The dementia determination system according to claim 1, wherein when the long press ratio is greater than or equal to a threshold, the determination unit is configured to determine that the dementia level is a normal level corresponding to a range of a healthy person, and when the long press ratio is lower than the threshold, the determination unit is configured to determine that the dementia level is an abnormal level corresponding to a range of mild cognitive impairment and dementia.
3. The dementia determination system according to claim 1, wherein the output unit is configured to cause the dementia information to be displayed on a screen of the electric device by outputting the dementia information.
4. The dementia determination system according to claim 1, wherein by outputting training content for an operation in which the operating device is used based on the dementia level determined by the determination unit, the output unit is configured to cause the training content to be displayed on a screen of the electric device.
5. The dementia determination system according to claim 4, wherein when the dementia level determined by the determination unit is more severe than a reference level, the output unit is configured to cause the training content to be displayed on the screen by outputting the training content.
6. The dementia determination system according to claim 4, wherein the output unit is configured to cause the training content to be displayed on the screen by outputting the training content set for the dementia level determined by the determination unit.
7. The dementia determination system according to claim 4, wherein the acquisition unit is configured to newly acquire the long press ratio in a determination target period including a training period in which the training content is displayed, and the determination unit is configured to newly determine the dementia level based on the long press ratio newly acquired by the acquisition unit.
8. A computer-readable non-transitory recording medium on which a program for causing a computer to execute a dementia determination process is recorded, the dementia determination process comprising: acquiring a long press ratio which is a ratio of a number of long presses in which a button of an operating device is pressed for a time longer than a reference time, to a number of presses of the button of the operating device used by a user to operate an electric device; determining a dementia level of the user based on the long press ratio acquired by the acquiring; and outputting dementia information indicating the dementia level determined by the determining, wherein in the determining, the dementia level is more severe as the long press ratio is lower.
9. A dementia determination system, comprising: an acquisition unit configured to acquire a duration of pressing a button of an operating device used by a user to operate an electrical device; a determination unit configured to determine a dementia level of the user based on a distribution of the duration of pressing acquired; and an output unit configured to output dementia information indicating the dementia level determined.
10. The dementia determination system according to claim 9, wherein the determination unit is configured to determine the dementia level of the user by comparing the distribution in an intermediate section when the duration of pressing is divided into three continuous sections and the distribution in other two sections of the three continuous sections.
11. The dementia determination system according to claim 10, wherein when A is an integral value of the distribution in a first section immediately before the intermediate section, B is an integral value of the distribution in the intermediate section, and C is an integral value of the distribution in a second section immediately after the intermediate section, the determination unit is configured to determine the dementia level of the user based on a feature value represented by (B/A)+(B/C).
12. The dementia determination system according to claim 11, wherein when the feature value is greater than or equal to a threshold value, the determination unit is configured to determine the dementia level to be an abnormal level corresponding to mild cognitive impairment.
13. The dementia determination system according to claim 10, wherein the intermediate section is a section in which the duration of pressing is 1000 ms or more and 3000 ms or less.
14. The dementia determination system according to claim 9, wherein the determination unit is configured to determine the dementia level of the user based on a temporal change in the distribution.
15. The dementia determination system according to claim 9, wherein the distribution is calculated by averaging a relative frequency distribution of the duration of pressing for one day over a plurality of days.
16. A computer-readable non-transitory recording medium on which a program for causing a computer to execute a dementia determination process is recorded, the dementia determination process comprising: acquiring a duration of pressing a button of an operating device used by a user to operate an electrical device; determining a dementia level of the user based on a distribution of the duration of pressing acquired; and outputting dementia information indicating the dementia level determined.
</claims>
</document>
