<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/18,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJITSU
</assignee>

<inventors>
TAKAGI, TAKUYA
IKE, YUICHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72334656
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ESTIMATION APPARATUS AND ESTIMATION METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A program causes the processor to: estimate, a determination result of a model for performing determination based on attribute values corresponding to attributes related to a target, a degree of correlation of each of combination patterns with the determination result, each combination pattern being a combination that includes attributes selected from attributes satisfying a predetermined condition among the attributes and attributes selected from attributes other than the attributes satisfying the predetermined condition among the attributes, and estimate, based on a difference between a first degree of correlation of a first combination pattern among the combination patterns with the determination result, and a second degree of correlation of a second combination pattern that is a combination pattern obtained by removing a first attribute among the attributes satisfying the predetermined condition from the first combination pattern with the determination result, a degree of influence of the first attribute on the determination result.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium comprising a program which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: estimate, with respect to a determination result of a determination model for performing determination based on a plurality of attribute values corresponding to a plurality of attributes related to a target, a degree of correlation of each of a plurality of combination patterns with the determination result, each combination pattern being a combination that includes one or more attributes selected from attributes satisfying a predetermined condition among the plurality of attributes and none or one or more attributes selected from attributes other than the attributes satisfying the predetermined condition among the plurality of attributes, and estimate, based on a difference between a first degree of correlation of a first combination pattern among the plurality of combination patterns with the determination result and a second degree of correlation of a second combination pattern that is a combination pattern obtained by removing a first attribute among the attributes satisfying the predetermined condition from the first combination pattern with the determination result, a degree of influence of he first attribute on the determination result.
2. The non-transitory computer-readable recording medium of claim 1, wherein the degree of correlation is estimated based on a ratio of the determination result to the combination pattern.
3. The non-transitory computer-readable recording medium of claim 1, wherein in a case where a plurality of the first attributes are provided and a plurality of the first combination patterns are provided, a difference in the degree of correlation with the second combination pattern corresponding to each of the first combination patterns is obtained for the first attributes and the first attributes are ranked using a sum of the obtained differences in the degree of correlation as the degree of influence.
4. The non-transitory computer-readable recording medium of claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to output the plurality of first attributes ranked according to the sum of the obtained differences in the degree of correlation as the degree of influence.
5. The non-transitory computer-readable recording medium of claim 1, wherein the degree of influence is calculated according to the following equation l represents the determination result, x represents a combination of the plurality of attribute values, and n (⋅) represents the number of occurrences of data "⋅" in data analyzed b the determination model.
6. The non-transitory computer-readable recording medium of claim 1, wherein the processor is further cause to: divide the plurality of attributes related to the target into a plurality of groups, a first group of the attributes satisfying a predetermined condition and a second group of the attributes other than the attributes satisfying the predetermined condition.
7. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the determination model is a machine-learning model.
8. An estimation apparatus comprising: a memory; and a processor coupled to the memory and the processor configured to: estimate, with respect to a determination result of a determination model for performing determination based on a plurality of attribute values corresponding to a plurality of attributes related to a target, a degree of correlation of each of a plurality of combination patterns with the determination result, each combination pattern being a combination that includes one or more attributes selected from attributes satisfying a predetermined condition among the plurality of attributes and none or one or more attributes selected from attributes other than the attributes satisfying the predetermined condition among the plurality of attributes, and estimate, based on a difference between a first degree of correlation of first combination pattern among the plurality of combination patterns with the determination result and a second degree of correlation of a second combination pattern that is a combination pattern obtained by removing a first attribute among the attributes satisfying the predetermined condition from the first combination pattern with the determination result, a degree of influence of the first attribute on the determination result.
9. The estimation apparatus of claim 8, wherein the degree of correlation is estimated based on a ratio of the determination result to the combination pattern.
10. The estimation apparatus of claim 8, wherein in a case where a plurality of the first attributes are provided and a plurality of the first combination patterns are provided, a difference in the degree of correlation with the second combination pattern corresponding to each of the first combination patterns is obtained for the first attributes and the first attributes are ranked using a sum of the obtained differences in the degree of correlation as the degree of influence.
11. The estimation apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to output the plurality of first attributes ranked according to the sum of the obtained differences in the degree of correlation as the degree of influence.
12. The estimation apparatus of claim 8, wherein the degree of influence is calculated according to the following equation l represents the determination result, x represents a combination of the plurality of attribute values, and n (⋅) represents the number of occurrences of data "⋅" in data analyzed by the determination model.
13. The estimation apparatus of claim 8, wherein the processor is further cause to: divide the plurality of attributes related to the target into a plurality of groups, a first group of the attributes satisfying a predetermined condition and a second group of the attributes other than the attributes satisfying the predetermined condition.
14. The estimation apparatus of claim 8, wherein the determination model is a machine-learning model.
15. A computer-implemented estimation method comprising: estimating, with respect to a determination result of a determination model for performing determination based on a plurality of attribute values corresponding to a plurality of attributes related to a target, a degree of correlation of each of a plurality of combination patterns with the determination result, each combination pattern being combination that includes one or more attributes selected from attributes satisfying a predetermined condition among the plurality of attributes and none or one or more attributes selected from attributes other than the attributes satisfying the predetermined condition among the plurality of attributes, and estimating, based on a difference between a first degree of correlation of a first combination pattern among the plurality of combination patterns with the determination result and a second degree of correlation of a second combination pattern that is a combination pattern obtained by removing a first attribute among the attributes satisfying the predetermined condition from the first combination pattern with the determination result, a degree of influence of the first attribute on the determination result.
16. The computer-implemented estimation method of claim 15, wherein the degree of correlation is estimated based on a ratio of the determination result to the combination pattern.
17. The computer-implemented estimation method of claim 15, wherein in a case where a plurality of the first attributes are provided and a plurality of the first combination patterns are provided, a difference in the degree of correlation with the second combination pattern corresponding to each of the first combination patterns is obtained for the first attributes and the first attributes are ranked using a sum of the obtained differences in the degree of correlation as the degree of influence.
18. The computer-implemented estimation method of claim 15, wherein the degree of influence is calculated according to the following equation l represents the determination result, x represents a combination of the plurality of attribute values, and n (⋅) represents the number of occurrences of data "⋅" in data analyzed by the determination model.
19. The computer-implemented estimation method of claim 15, wherein the processor is further cause to: divide the plurality of attributes related to the target into a plurality of groups, a first group of the attributes satisfying a predetermined condition and a second group of the attributes other than the attributes satisfying the predetermined condition.
20. The computer-implemented estimation method of claim 15, wherein the determination model is a machine-learning model.
</claims>
</document>
