<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AO KASPERSKY LAB
</assignee>

<inventors>
Regentov, Georgy A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74044232
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR INTERCEPTING MALICIOUS MESSAGES BASED ON APPLICATION PRIORITY
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are systems and method for intercepting malicious messages for training a malware detection classifier. In an exemplary aspect, an application selection module may select, from a plurality of applications, an application for execution in an execution environment based on a priority level of the application. During the execution of the selected application, a network interception module may monitor network activity comprising information about data being sent and received over a network connected to the execution environment and storing the network activity in memory of the execution environment (e.g., in a network activity log). A message selection module may subsequently extract, from the stored network activity, an electronic message, in response to determining that the electronic message corresponds to the selected application, may storing the electronic message in a message database used for training the malware detection classifier.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for intercepting malicious messages for training a malware detection classifier, the method comprising: selecting, from a plurality of applications, an application for execution in an execution environment based on a priority level of the application; during the execution of the selected application, monitoring network activity comprising information about data being sent and received over a network connected to the execution environment; extracting, from the network activity, an electronic message; and in response to determining that the electronic message corresponds to the selected application, storing the electronic message in a message database used for training the malware detection classifier.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of applications comprises malicious applications and untrusted applications and is stored in an application database, wherein the selecting comprises: calculating a respective priority level for each respective application of the plurality of applications; and in response to determining that the respective priority level for a respective application is greater than all other calculated priority levels, selecting the respective application for execution in the execution environment.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the respective priority level is inversely proportional to an amount of time elapsed since the respective application was added or modified in the application database.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: determining an amount of computing devices that are connected to the network and on which the respective application is present, wherein the respective priority level is directly proportional to the amount of computing devices.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the calculating comprises: calculating the respective priority level based on a formula: wherein p is the respective priority level, n is an amount of computing devices on which the respective application is present; t is an amount of time elapsed since the respective application was added or modified in the application database, and a and b are power coefficients, where a>b>0.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the calculating comprises: assigning a maximum priority level to the respective application in response to determining that the respective application is capable of performing data exchanges over the network.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining that the electronic message corresponds to the selected application comprises: determining that the extracted electronic message is marked with an identifier of a network-level protocol port used by the selected application for performing data exchanges over the network.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the execution environment is one of: a computing device, a hypervisor with a virtual machine running, and an emulator.
9. A system for intercepting malicious messages for training a malware detection classifier, the system comprising: a hardware processor configured to: select, from a plurality of applications, an application for execution in an execution environment based on a priority level of the application; during the execution of the selected application, monitor network activity comprising information about data being sent and received over a network connected to the execution environment; extract, from the network activity, an electronic message; and in response to determining that the electronic message corresponds to the selected application, store the electronic message in a message database used for training the malware detection classifier.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the plurality of applications comprises malicious applications and untrusted applications and is stored in an application database, wherein the hardware processor is configured to perform the selecting by: calculating a respective priority level for each respective application of the plurality of applications; and in response to determining that the respective priority level for a respective application is greater than all other calculated priority levels, selecting the respective application for execution in the execution environment.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the respective priority level is inversely proportional to an amount of time elapsed since the respective application was added or modified in the application database.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to: determine an amount of computing devices that are connected to the network and on which the respective application is present, wherein the respective priority level is directly proportional to the amount of computing devices.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the hardware processor is configured to perform the calculating by: calculating the respective priority level based on a formula: wherein p is the respective priority level, n is an amount of computing devices on which the respective application is present; t is an amount of time elapsed since the respective application was added or modified in the application database, and a and b are power coefficients, where a>b>0.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to perform the calculating by: assigning a maximum priority level to the respective application in response to determining that the respective application is capable of performing data exchanges over the network.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the hardware processor is configured to determine that the electronic message corresponds to the selected application by: determining that the extracted electronic message is marked with an identifier of a network-level protocol port used by the selected application for performing data exchanges over the network.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the execution environment is one of: a computing device, a hypervisor with a virtual machine running, and an emulator.
17. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing thereon computer executable instructions for intercepting malicious messages for training a malware detection classifier, including instructions for: selecting, from a plurality of applications, an application for execution in an execution environment based on a priority level of the application; during the execution of the selected application, monitoring network activity comprising information about data being sent and received over a network connected to the execution environment; extracting, from the stored network activity, an electronic message; and in response to determining that the electronic message corresponds to the selected application, storing the electronic message in a message database used for training the malware detection classifier.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the plurality of applications comprises malicious applications and untrusted applications and is stored in an application database, including instructions for: calculating a respective priority level for each respective application of the plurality of applications; and in response to determining that the respective priority level for a respective application is greater than all other calculated priority levels, selecting the respective application for execution in the execution environment.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein the respective priority level is inversely proportional to an amount of time elapsed since the respective application was added or modified in the application database.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, including instructions for: calculating the respective priority level based on a formula: wherein p is the respective priority level, n is an amount of computing devices on which the respective application is present; t is an amount of time elapsed since the respective application was added or modified in the application database, and a and b are power coefficients, where a>b>0.
</claims>
</document>
