<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/783,G06F9/54,G06K9/00,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HITACHI VANTARA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, CHUN WAI
JANUMPALLY, MEGHANA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65634186
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EMOTION DETECTION ENABLED VIDEO REDACTION
</title>

<abstract>
In some examples, a computer system may receive video from one or more video sources. The computer system may detect a plurality of faces in a first video portion of the received video. Further, the computer system may determine that a first face of the plurality of faces has features indicative of an emotion of interest. Based on determining that the first face has the features indicative of the emotion of interest, the computer system may redact other faces of the plurality of faces while leaving the first face unredacted in the first video portion. The computer system may send the first video portion with the first face unredacted and the other faces redacted to at least one computing device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory computer-readable media maintaining executable instructions, which, when executed by the one or more processors, configure the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving a video from a video source; detecting a plurality of faces in a first video portion of the received video; determining that a first face of the plurality of faces has features indicative of an emotion of interest; based on determining the first face has the features indicative of the emotion of interest, redacting other faces of the plurality of faces while leaving the first face unredacted in the first video portion; and sending the first video portion with the first face unredacted and the other faces redacted to at least one computing device.
2. The system as recited in claim 1, the operations further comprising: matching the first face with an image of a previously stored face, wherein the previously stored face is associated with a second video portion received from a different video source than the first video portion; and storing an indication of the emotion of interest and identifying information for the first video portion in association with the previously stored face.
3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein sending the first video portion to the at least one computing device comprises sending the first video portion to a security computing device with an indication of the emotion of interest associated with the first face.
4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein sending the first video portion to the at least one computing device comprises sending the first video portion to a client computing device executing a client application to cause the client application to present the first video portion in a user interface for review by a reviewer.
5. The system as recited in claim 4, the operations further comprising: receiving from the client computing device, via the user interface, an indication of one or more of the other faces remaining unredacted; and performing additional redaction on the first video portion to redact the one or more of the other faces.
6. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the emotion of interest is a first emotion of interest, the operations further comprising: determining that a second face of the plurality of faces has features indicative of the first emotion of interest and a second emotion of interest; determining a first percentage of time that the first face has the features indicative of the first emotion of interest; determining a second percentage of time that the second face has the features indicative of the first emotion of interest and determining a third percentage of time that the second face has features indicative of the second emotion of interest; assigning a first priority score to the first face based on the first percentage; and assigning a second priority score to the second face based on the second percentage plus the third percentage.
7. The system as recited in claim 6, the operations further comprising ranking the second face as having a higher priority in a priority data structure than the first face based on the second percentage plus the third percentage being greater than the first percentage.
8. The system as recited in claim 7, the operations further comprising sending priority information from the priority data structure to a security computing device with the first video portion, wherein the first face and the second face are unredacted in the first video portion.
9. The system as recited in claim 1, the operations further comprising: determining a percentage of time that the first face has the features indicative of the emotion of interest; assigning a priority to the first face based on the percentage of time; and sending information related to the priority to a security computing device with the first video portion.
10. The system as recited in claim 9, wherein the operation of determining the percentage of time that the first face has the features indicative of the emotion of interest is based on a percentage of time in the first video portion and in a second video portion, wherein the first face is detected has having features indicative of an emotion not of interest for a percentage of the time that the first face is present in at least one of the first video portion or the second video portion.
11. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the video is received from a first video source via a first application programming interface (API) host, and provided to a video processing program executed by the one or more processors to determine the first video portion with the first face unredacted and the other faces redacted, the operations further comprising: storing the first video portion in an object storage; receiving, from a customer computing device, via the API host a request to access the first video portion; and providing the first video portion to the customer computing device via a media server.
12. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the operation of sending the first video portion with the first face unredacted and the other faces redacted to at least one computing device comprises sending the first video portion to a computing device that makes the first video portion publicly accessible, wherein the redacting the other faces causes the other faces to be unrecognizable in the first video portion.
13. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the emotion of interest is one of anger, frustration, hatred, or distress.
14. A method comprising: receiving, by one or more processors, a video from a video source; detecting a plurality of faces in a first video portion of the received video; detecting that a first face of the plurality of faces has features indicative of an emotion of interest not detected in other faces of the plurality of faces; based on detecting the features indicative of the emotion of interest in the first face, redacting the other faces of the plurality of faces and not redacting the first face in the first video portion; and sending the first video portion with the first face not redacted and the other faces redacted to at least one computing device.
15. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, program the one or more processors of a system to: receive a video from a video source; detecting a plurality of faces in a first video portion of the received video; determining that a first face of the plurality of faces has features indicative of an emotion of interest; based on determining the first face has the features indicative of the emotion of interest and other faces of the plurality of faces of the plurality of faces do not include the features indicative of the emotion of interest, redacting the other faces from the first video portion while leaving the first face unredacted in the first video portion; and sending the first video portion with the first face unredacted and the other faces redacted to at least one computing device.
</claims>
</document>
