<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
THIRUNAVUKKARASU, JEISOBERS
MADHAVAN, Shobitha
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72832709
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROMOTION OPTIMIZATION USING MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure relates to a system and method to estimate optimal promotional value of a product while considering one or more promotional strategies of the organization. Retailers commonly employ promotions to improve sales volume, revenues, profits and customer satisfaction. Understanding of customer reactions to promotions at granular level will be critical for the success of promotion execution. The system and method to estimate effect of price discount percentage on individual promotion success criteria such as increasing basket size, boosting customer loyalty and raising profit. It is addressed by creating multivariate multi structure machine learning model and it is used to estimate probability to address a cannibalization, a complementarity effect, a stock up, a preferred segment of customer, and a required profit for a price discount. Finally, a promotional value is recommended for each product of a store by considering various promotion evaluation parameters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: at least one memory storing a plurality of instructions; one or more hardware processors communicatively coupled with the at least one memory, wherein the one or more hardware processors are configured to execute one or more modules; a data collection module configured to collect a set of drivers of sales of each of one or more products of a predefined category from one or more source of information, wherein the one or more source of information includes a point of sale (POS), a historical promotion, a competitor information, a customer master data and a demography of store; a data processing module configured to process the collected information at product level and the information associated with the product; a data matrix generation module configured to generate a data matrix of the processed information to provide a multivariate multi-structure, wherein the plurality of rows comprises the processed information at store product transaction level and the plurality of columns comprises one or more variable indicators denoting success or failure on predefined parameters; a buying pattern detection module configured to determine an indicative value of success or failure for the cannibalization, complementarity and stock up by comparing with standard buying pattern; a model development module configured to develop a multivariate multi-structure machine learning model for each of the one or more products based on the processed information from one or more sources of information; a probability estimator module configured to estimate a probability to address a cannibalization, a complementarity effect, a stock up effect, a preferred segment of customer, and a required profit for a predefined price discount; and a recommendation module configured to recommend a promotional value of each product using the estimated probability related with the one or more parameters and recommendation is done at individual product store level.
2. The system claimed in claim 1, wherein the information associated with product includes an information of a customer, a customer type identification, a product type identification, a stage of product life cycle, a number of similar SKUs under promotion, a number of similar SKUs under regular price, a profit per unit calculation, a highest comp price distance associated with each of the one or more products.
3. The system claimed in claim 1, wherein the indicative value is an indicator of the presence and absence of cannibalization for a given price discount within a predefined category.
4. The system claimed in claim 3, wherein the cannibalization is a repeated multilevel processing to provide an indicative value of a success or failure based on the multivariate distance from the at least one basket having the product.
5. The system claimed in claim 1, wherein the one or more predefined promotional parameters comprise a percentage of discount, a mode of discount, a type of product, a stage of product life cycle, an expected competitor price, a promotional information of other products with the predefined category.
6. The system claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of rows of the data matrix comprise the processed information at the store product transaction level.
7. The system claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of columns comprise one or more variable indicators denoting success or failure based on a cannibalization effect, a complementarity effect, a stock up effect, a preferred segment of customer, and a required profit under predefined parameters.
8. The system claimed in claim 1, wherein the probability estimation is done based on one or more predefined parameters, wherein the one or more predefined parameters comprise a percentage of discount, a mode of discount, a type of product, a stage of product life cycle, an expected competitor price and a promotional information of one or more related products.
9. A processor-implemented method comprising: collecting a set of drivers of sales of each of one or more products of a predefined category from one or more source of information, wherein the one or more source of information includes a point of sale (POS), a historical promotion, a competitor information, a customer master data and a demography of store; processing the collected information at a product level and the information associated with the product; generating a data matrix of the processed information to provide a multivariate multi-structure, wherein the data matrix comprises a plurality of columns and rows, wherein the plurality of rows comprises the processed information at store product transaction level and the plurality of columns comprises one or more variable indicators denoting success or failure on predefined parameters; determining an indicative value of a success or failure for the cannibalization, complementarity and stock up by comparing with standard buying pattern; developing a multivariate multi-structure machine learning model for each of the one or more products based on the processed information from one or more sources; estimating a probability to address a cannibalization, a complementarity effect, a stock up effect, a preferred segment of customer, and a required profit for a predefined price discount; and recommending a promotional value of each product using the estimated probability related with the one or more parameters and recommendation is done at individual product store level.
10. The method claimed in claim 9, wherein the information associated with product includes an information of a customer, a customer type identification, a product type identification, a stage of product life cycle, a number of similar SKUs under promotion, a number of similar SKUs under regular price, a profit per unit calculation, a highest comp price distance associated with each of the plurality of products.
11. The method claimed in claim 9, wherein the indicative value is an indicator of the presence and absence of cannibalization for a given price discount within a predefined category.
12. The method claimed in claim 11, wherein the cannibalization is a repeated multilevel processing to provide an indicative value of a success or failure based on the multivariate distance from the basket having the product.
13. The method claimed in claim 9, wherein the one or more predefined promotional parameters comprise a percentage of discount, a type of product, a stage of product life cycle, an expected competitor price, a mode of discount, a promotional information of other products with the predefined category.
14. The method claimed in claim 9, wherein the data matrix comprises a cannibalization effect, a complementarity effect, a stock up effect, a customer criteria, and a profit criteria as dependent matrix and a price discount, a type of product, a comp price distance, a product lifecycle stage, a type of offer, a number of similar SKUs under promotion, a number of similar SKUs under regular price, a day effect and demographics as independent matrix.
15. The method claimed in claim 9, wherein the probability estimation is done related with the one or more predefined parameters, the one or more predefined parameters comprise a percentage of discount, a mode of discount, a type of product, a stage of product life cycle, an expected competitor price and a promotional information of one or more related products.
</claims>
</document>
