<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-08-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/06,H04L12/58,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAVIES, RUXANDRA GEORGIANA
LEWIS, JUSTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56555885
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRIVACY ALIGNED AND PERSONALIZED SOCIAL MEDIA CONTENT SHARING RECOMMENDATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided that facilitate selecting videos to share in a messaging session. A system is provided that includes an accessible data mining component configured to generate a first set of data associated with a messaging session between a user and one or more other user, the first set of data excluding data that is inaccessible to the user and comprising data that is accessible to the user, and an identification component configured to identify a set of media items based on the first set of data. An inaccessible data mining component is further configured to generate a second set of data comprising data that is inaccessible to the user but accessible to at least one of the one or more other users, and a recommendation component configured to recommend a subset of the set of media items to the user based on the second set of data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: providing, using a hardware processor, a graphical user interface comprising a search tool that facilitates searching for videos for a first user to share in a group messaging session that includes the first user and a second user of a second device using a messaging application; receiving, via the search tool, a first user input comprising key terms associated with a video that the first user is interested sharing; generating, using the hardware processor, a first set of data associated with the group messaging session based on the key terms, wherein the first set of data is generated to include first user activity data and to exclude second user activity data, wherein the first user activity data is inaccessible to the second user and indicates content consumed by the first user, and wherein second user activity data is inaccessible to the first user and indicates content consumed by the second user; and identifying a set of video items provided by a media provider based on the first set of data.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a second set of data associated with the group messaging session, wherein the second set of data comprises at least a portion of the second user activity data; identifying a subset of the set of video items based on the second set of data; and updating the graphical user interface in which the subset of the set of video items are available for selection by the first user for sharing in the group messaging session.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first set of data includes: media content provided by the media provider that is shared in the messaging session, third user activity data related to usage of the media provider by the first user, and first endorsement data that is accessible to the first user and one or more other users included in the group messaging session regarding endorsement, by the first user or the one or more other users included in the group messaging session, of media content provided by the media provider.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the second set of data includes: fourth user activity data that is inaccessible to the first user related to usage of the media provider by the one or more other users included in the group messaging session, and second endorsement data that is inaccessible to the first user regarding endorsement, by the one or more other users included in the messaging session, of other media content provided by the media provider.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising determining usage of the media provider by the one or more other users included in the group messaging session based on activity including watching of videos provided by the media provider, and determine endorsement of media content by the one or more other users included in the group messaging session based on activity including liking a media item, commenting on a media item, sharing a media item, subscribing to a media item or otherwise providing a signal of endorsement of a media item.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprising receiving a second user input comprising a video item selected by the first user from the subset of video items in the graphical user interface for sharing in the group messaging session.
7. The method of claim 2, further comprising determining first affinity scores for respective video items in the set of video items based on the second set of data, wherein the first affinity scores reflect an inferred degree of affinity the second user has for the respective video items in the set of video items.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising determining the first affinity scores based on a third set of data inaccessible to the one or more other users included in the group messaging session regarding usage of the media provider and endorsement of video items provided by the media provider by a group of users of the media provider with similar media provider usage histories and video item endorsement histories as the one or more other users included in the group messaging session.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising ranking the video items in the set of video items based on their respective first affinity scores, and wherein the subset of video items is further recommended based on their respective rankings.
10. The method of claim 7, further comprising ordering the video items in the set of video items or the subset based on their respective first affinity scores.
11. The method of claim 7, further comprising: determining second affinity scores for the respective video items in the set of video items based on the first set of data, wherein the second affinity scores reflect an inferred degree of affinity the first user has for the respective video items in the set; and ranking the video items in the set of video items based on the first affinity scores and second affinity scores associated therewith, recency of the respective video items, and relatedness of the respective video items to the messaging session, and wherein the recommendation is further based on their respective rankings.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying the first user activity data and the second user activity data based on access control parameters set by the second user regarding what users are authorized to access information regarding media content, provided by the media provider, the second user played, and media content provided by the media provider that the second user endorsed.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining second affinity scores for respective video items in the set of video items, wherein the second affinity scores reflect an inferred degree of affinity the first user has for the respective video items in the set.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising determining the second affinity scores based on a third set of data inaccessible to the first user regarding usage of the media provider and endorsement of video items provided by the media provider by a group of users of the media provider with similar media provider usage histories and video item endorsement histories as the first user.
15. The system of claim 13, further comprising determining the second affinity scores based on a third set of data regarding usage and interaction by the first user with respective channels that the respective video items in the set of video items are associated.
16. The system of claim 13, further comprising ranking the video items in the set of video items based on the second affinity scores associated therewith, wherein video items with higher affinity scores are ranked higher than video items with lower affinity scores, and wherein the recommendation is further based on their respective rankings.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the first set of data includes key words associated with a topic of the messaging session, and wherein the processor is further configured to analyze text shared in the messaging session to determine the key words.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein the first set of data includes one or more query terms associated with a query for a media item initiated by the first user during the messaging session.
19. A system, comprising: a hardware processor that is configured to: provide a graphical user interface comprising a search tool that facilitates searching for videos for a first user to share in a group messaging session that includes the first user and a second user of a second device using a messaging application; receive, via the search tool, a first user input comprising key terms associated with a video that the first user is interested sharing; generate a first set of data associated with the group messaging session based on the key terms, wherein the first set of data is generated to include first user activity data and to exclude second user activity data, wherein the first user activity data is inaccessible to the second user and indicates content consumed by the first user, and wherein second user activity data is inaccessible to the first user and indicates content consumed by the second user; and identify a set of video items provided by a media provider based on the first set of data.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a method, the method comprising: providing a graphical user interface comprising a search tool that facilitates searching for videos for a first user to share in a group messaging session that includes the first user and a second user of a second device using a messaging application; receiving, via the search tool, a first user input comprising key terms associated with a video that the first user is interested sharing; generating a first set of data associated with the group messaging session based on the key terms, wherein the first set of data is generated to include first user activity data and to exclude second user activity data, wherein the first user activity data is inaccessible to the second user and indicates content consumed by the first user, and wherein second user activity data is inaccessible to the first user and indicates content consumed by the second user; and identifying a set of video items provided by a media provider based on the first set of data.
</claims>
</document>
