<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/02,G16B15/30,G16B40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
UL AIN, QURRAT
COSTABELLO, LUCA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70108027
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Polypharmacy Side Effect Prediction With Relational Representation Learning
</title>

<abstract>
A system adapted to receive a knowledge base, which may include drug data, human biological data, drug-drug interactions, protein-protein interactions, gene expression, protein and drug interaction data, genotypic information for cell lines, drug side effects, and disease classification labels. The system may generate a knowledge graph based on the knowledge base, and convert the knowledge graph into embeddings that include points in a k-dimensional metric space. The system may determine a medical effect weighting based on a drug combination query, and update the embeddings of the drug combination. The system may utilize a pooling method to update predicate embeddings. The system may determine polypharmacy scores for the embeddings, and rank the predicted links between a drug combination and side effects.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for identifying side effects for drug combinations, comprising: a knowledge graph receiver circuitry configured to receive a knowledge graph based on a knowledge base, the knowledge graph representing drug molecular-structure data and drug side-effect data; an embedding-space generation circuitry configured to convert the knowledge graph into embeddings; and, a computation circuitry configured to receive a drug combination query, the computation circuitry configured to determine a plurality of candidate statements based on the embeddings and the drug combination query, the candidate statements representing associations between a plurality of side effects and a plurality of drug combinations, the computation circuitry configured to receive combination-index data, the combination-index data representing medical effects of a combination of drugs, the computation circuitry configured to determine a medical effect weighting based on the combination-index data and the drug combination query, the computation circuitry configured to determine a polypharmacy score for each candidate statement based on the medical effect weighting and the embeddings, each polypharmacy score being a metric representation comprising a probability of an association between one of the side effects and one of the drug combinations.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the knowledge base is an existing knowledge graph representing drug molecular-structure data and drug side-effect data.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the knowledge base comprises drug compound data, chemical substructure data, drug combination data, gene data, cell line data, genotypic data, side-effect data, and disease classification data.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the knowledge graph is generated using a schema providing node representations for drug compound data, chemical substructure data, drug combination data, gene data, cell line data, genotypic data, side-effect data, and disease classification data.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the computation circuitry is further configured to rank the metric representations of the candidate statements.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the computation circuitry is further configured to adjust the embeddings based on a pooling of the embeddings.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the medical effect weighting is based on a method selected from a group consisting of: a Loewe additivity score method, a Chou-Talalay combination index method, a Tau estimation method, a pharmacological independence method, and a Bliss statistical independence method.
8. A method for identifying side effects for drug combinations, comprising: receiving a knowledge graph representing drug molecular-structure data and drug side-effect data, wherein the knowledge graph is based on a knowledge base, wherein the knowledge graph is received via a knowledge graph receiving circuitry; generating embeddings based on the knowledge graph, wherein the embeddings are generated via an embedding-space generation circuitry; receiving a drug combination query, wherein the drug combination query is received via a computation circuitry; determining a plurality of candidate statements based on the embeddings and the drug combination query, wherein the candidate statements represent associations between a plurality of side effects and a plurality of drug combinations, wherein the candidate statements are determined via the computation circuitry; receiving combination-index data, wherein the combination-index data represents medical effects of a combination of drugs, wherein the combination-index data is received via the computation circuitry; determining a medical effect weighting based on the combination-index data and the drug combination query, wherein the medical effect weighting is determined via the computation circuitry; and, determining a polypharmacy score for each of the candidate statements based on the medical effect weighting and the embeddings, wherein each polypharmacy score is a metric representation comprising a probability of an association between one of the side effects and one of the drug combinations, wherein the polypharmacy scores are determined via the computation circuitry.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the knowledge base is an existing knowledge graph representing drug molecular-structure data and drug side-effect data.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the knowledge base comprises drug compound data, chemical substructure data, drug combination data, gene data, cell line data, genotypic data, side-effect data, and disease classification data.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the knowledge graph is generated using a schema providing node representations for drug compound data, chemical substructure data, drug combination data, gene data, cell line data, genotypic data, side-effect data, and disease classification data.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the computation circuitry is further configured to rank the metric representations of the candidate statements.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the computation circuitry is further configured to adjust the embeddings based on a pooling of the embeddings.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the medical effect weighting is based on a method selected from a group consisting of: a Loewe additivity score method, a Chou-Talalay combination index method, a Tau estimation method, a pharmacological independence method, and a Bliss statistical independence method.
15. A product for identifying side effects for drug combinations, comprising: a machine-readable medium, other than a transitory signal; and, instructions stored on the machine-readable medium, the instructions configured to, when executed, cause processing circuitry to: receive a knowledge graph representing drug molecular-structure data and drug side-effect data, wherein the knowledge graph is based on a knowledge base, wherein the knowledge graph is received via a knowledge graph receiving circuitry; generate embeddings based on the knowledge graph, wherein the embeddings are generated via an embedding-space generation circuitry; receive a drug combination query, wherein the drug combination query is received via a computation circuitry; determine a plurality of candidate statements based on the embeddings and the drug combination query, wherein the candidate statements represent associations between a plurality of side effects and a plurality of drug combinations, wherein the candidate statements are determined via the computation circuitry; receive combination-index data, wherein the combination-index data represents medical effects of a combination of drugs, wherein the combination-index data is received via the computation circuitry; determine a medical effect weighting based on the combination-index data and the drug combination query, wherein the medical effect weighting is determined via the computation circuitry; and, determine a polypharmacy score for each of the candidate statements based on the medical effect weighting and the embeddings, wherein each polypharmacy score is a metric representation comprising a probability of an association between one of the side effects and one of the drug combinations, wherein the polypharmacy scores are determined via the computation circuitry.
16. The product of claim 15, wherein the knowledge base is an existing knowledge graph representing drug molecular-structure data and drug side-effect data.
17. The product of claim 15, wherein the knowledge base comprises drug compound data, chemical substructure data, drug combination data, gene data, cell line data, genotypic data, side-effect data, and disease classification data.
18. The product of claim 15, wherein the knowledge graph is generated using a schema providing node representations for drug compound data, chemical substructure data, drug combination data, gene data, cell line data, genotypic data, side-effect data, and disease classification data.
19. The product of claim 15, wherein the computation circuitry is further configured to rank the metric representations of the candidate statements.
20. The product of claim 15, wherein the computation circuitry is further configured to adjust the embeddings based on a pooling of the embeddings.
21. The product of claim 15, wherein the medical effect weighting is based on a method selected from a group consisting of: a Loewe additivity score method, a Chou-Talalay combination index method, a Tau estimation method, a pharmacological independence method, and a Bliss statistical independence method.
</claims>
</document>
