<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F16/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMPERITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SUCIU, DAN
ROCHE, GRAEME ANDREW KYLE
YAN, YAN
Sakoda, Carlos Minoru
Stokes, Jeffrey Allen
Meyles, Stephen Keith
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017732
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-LEVEL CONFLICT-FREE ENTITY CLUSTERINGS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates clustering similar data records together in a hierarchical clustering scheme. Each tier in a cluster corresponds to a minimal match score, which reflects a degree of confidence. In this respect, a higher confidence may lead to smaller sized clusters while a lower confidence may lead to larger sized clusters. Ordinal classification may be used to generate hierarchical clusters. In some embodiments, hierarchical clustering with conflict resolution is used to resolve user-defined hard conflicts in each tier of the clustering results.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a database that stores at least one database table comprising a plurality of records; and a memory coupled to a processor, the memory comprising a plurality of instructions that cause the processor to: identify a subset of records among the plurality of records according to at least one blocking operation; perform a plurality of classifications, by an ordinal classifier configured by ordinal training data that comprises a set of non-binary, ordinal labels, among the subset of records to generate corresponding match scores and one or more indications of a hard conflict; determine to not merge at least one record among the subset of records with a cluster of a plurality of records among the subset of records when a) at least one match score indicates a sufficiently strong match and b) a determination that a hard conflict exists between the at least one record and a plurality of records within the cluster; and generate a hierarchical clustering for the subset of records, the hierarchical clustering comprising a plurality of tiers, wherein each tier corresponds to a respective threshold match score, wherein a first tier among the plurality of tiers encompasses a second tier among the plurality of tiers.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of instructions that cause the processor to determine whether a hard conflict exists further comprise instructions that cause the processor to apply a hard conflict rule to inputs of a pairwise comparison.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one blocking operation comprises a blocking rule based on whether the plurality of records contain an exact match with respect to at least one field in the at least one database table.
4. (canceled)
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of non-binary, ordinal labels comprises a strong match, a weak match, and a hard conflict.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of instructions further cause the processor to iteratively perform the plurality classifications until the corresponding match scores include a highest score that falls below a minimum threshold.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the inputs to at least one of the iteratively performed classifications comprises a cluster made up of two or more records among the subset of records.
8. A computer implemented method comprising: performing a first set of ordinal classifications, by an ordinal classifier configured by ordinal training data that comprises a set of ordinal labels, on a subset of records derived from a plurality of records contained within at least one database table to generate a first set of corresponding match scores, wherein the ordinal labels are non-binary; merging at least two records within the subset of records to generate an initial cluster within the subset of records, according to the first set of corresponding match scores; performing a second set of ordinal classifications, by the ordinal classifier, among the subset of records, including the initial cluster, to generate a subsequent set of corresponding match scores, and generating a hierarchical clustering for the subset of records, the hierarchical clustering comprising a plurality of tiers, each tier corresponding to a respective ordinal label among the set of ordinal labels, wherein each tier corresponds to a respective threshold match score.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising determining whether a hard conflict exists between the initial cluster and another record among the subset of records in response to performing the second set of ordinal classifications.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein determining whether a hard conflict exists between the initial cluster and another record among the subset of records comprises applying a hard conflict rule to the initial cluster and another record.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein determining whether a hard conflict exists between the initial cluster and another record among the subset of records comprises evaluating an ordinal label with respect to the initial cluster and another record.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising: identifying the subset of records according to a blocking operation, wherein the blocking operation comprises a blocking rule based on whether the plurality of records of a field are an exact match with respect to at least one field in the at least one database table.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the set of ordinal labels comprises a strong match, a weak match, and a hard conflict.
14. One or more non-transitory computer-readable, non-volatile storage memory comprising stored instructions that are executable and, responsive to execution by a computing device, the computing device performs operations comprising: performing a first set of ordinal classifications, by an ordinal classifier configured by ordinal training data that comprises a set of ordinal labels, among a subset of records of at least one database table to generate a first set of corresponding match scores, wherein the ordinal labels are non-binary; merging at least two records within the subset of records to generate an initial cluster within the subset of records, according to the first set of corresponding match scores; performing at a second set of ordinal classifications, by the ordinal classifier, among the subset of records, including the initial cluster, to generate a subsequent set of corresponding match scores, and generating a hierarchical clustering for the subset of records, the hierarchical clustering comprising a plurality of tiers, wherein each tier corresponds to a respective ordinal label among the set of ordinal labels.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable, non-volatile storage memory of claim 14, wherein the subset of records of at least one database table is identified according to a blocking operation that groups the records of the at least one database table.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable, non-volatile storage memory of claim 15, wherein the blocking operating comprises a blocking rule based on whether a plurality of records in the at least one database table contain an exact match with respect to at least one field in the at least one database table.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable, non-volatile storage memory of claim 14, wherein the existence of a hard conflict between the initial cluster and another record among the subset of records is checked in response to performing the second set of ordinal classifications.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable, non-volatile storage memory of claim 16, wherein the existence of the hard conflict is checked by applying a hard conflict rule to the initial cluster and said another record.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable, non-volatile storage memory of claim 16, wherein the existence of the hard conflict is checked by evaluating an ordinal label with respect to the initial cluster and said another record.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable, non-volatile storage memory of claim 16, wherein the set of ordinal labels comprises a Strong-Match, a Weak-Match, and a Hard-Conflict.
</claims>
</document>
