<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N3/08,G06T11/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AUTODESK
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAVIS, MARK THOMAS
SHAYANI, HOOMAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69405988
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES FOR GENERATING DESIGNS THAT REFLECT STYLISTIC PREFERENCES
</title>

<abstract>
In various embodiments, a stylization application generates designs that reflect stylistic preferences. In operation, the stylization application computes characterization information based on a first design and a trained machine-learning model that maps one or more designs to characterization information associated with one or more styles. The stylization application then computes a style score based on the characterization information and a target style that is included in the one or more styles. Subsequently, the stylization application generates a second design based on the style score, where the second design is more representative of the target style than the first design. Advantageously, because the stylization application can substantially increase the number of designs that can be generated based on the target style in a given amount of time, relative to more manual prior art techniques, the overall quality of the design ultimately selected for production can be improved.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for generating designs that accounts for stylistic preferences, the method comprising: computing first characterization information based on a first design and a trained machine-learning model that maps one or more designs to characterization information associated with one or more styles; computing a style score based on the first characterization information and a target style that is included in the one or more styles; and generating a second design based on the style score, wherein the second design is more representative of the target style than the first design.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the trained machine-learning model comprises a binary classification model, a multiclass classification model, or a regression model.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the trained machine-learning model is trained based on a plurality of designs associated with a first class of objects, and the first design is associated with a second class of objects.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: performing one or more data mining operations to acquire training data; and executing one or more unsupervised learning algorithms to generate the trained machine-learning model based on the training data.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the second design comprises executing a multi-objective optimization algorithm based on the style score, a first objective that is related to the style score, and a second objective that is not related to the style score.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the second objective is related to at least one of physical performance, mechanical performance, environmental impact, energy efficiency, ergonomics, manufacturing time, manufacturing cost, and running cost.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the second design comprises executing a gradient-based optimization algorithm based on the style score and the first design.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the second design comprises modifying the first design based on the style score and at least one of a topology optimization algorithm, a parametric optimization algorithm, a stochastic optimization algorithm, an evolutionary optimization algorithm, and a constrained shape reconstruction algorithm.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein computing the style score comprises: determining a first probability included in the first characterization information based on the target style; determining that the target style is a positive target; and increasing the style score based on the first probability.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the target style is associated with at least one of a sense of character, a corporate identity, a cultural background, a manufacturing tool, and a manufacturing method.
11. One or more non-transitory computer readable media including instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to generate designs that account for stylistic preferences by performing the steps of: computing first characterization information based on a first design and a trained machine-learning model that maps one or more designs to characterization information associated with one or more styles; computing a style score based on the first characterization information and a first style preference that is associated with at least a first style included in the one or more styles; and generating a second design based on the style score, wherein the second design is more representative of the first style preference than the first design.
12. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11, wherein the first characterization information comprises a probability distribution across the one or more styles, a Boolean value, or a particular style included in the one or more styles.
13. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11, wherein the trained machine-learning model is trained based on a plurality of designs associated with a first class of objects, and the first design is associated with a second class of objects.
14. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11, further comprising: performing one or more data mining operations to acquire training data; and executing one or more unsupervised learning algorithms to generate the trained machine-learning model based on the training data.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11, wherein generating the second design comprises executing a multi-objective optimization algorithm based on the style score, a first objective that is related to the style score, and a second objective that is not related to the style score.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, wherein the second objective is related to at least one of physical performance, mechanical performance, environmental impact, energy efficiency, ergonomics, manufacturing time, manufacturing cost, and running cost.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11, wherein generating the second design comprises executing a gradient-based optimization algorithm based on the style score and the first design.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11, wherein computing the style score comprises: determining that the first style is a negative target based on the first style preference; determining a first probability included in the first characterization information based on the first style; and decreasing the style score based on the first probability.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11, wherein the first style is characterized by at least one of an aesthetic trait and a manufacturing-related property.
20. A system for generating designs that accounts for stylistic preferences, the system comprising: one or more memories storing instructions; and one or more processors that are coupled to the one or more memories and, when executing the instructions, are configured to: compute first characterization information based on a first design and a trained machine-learning model that maps one or more designs to characterization information associated with one or more styles; compute a style score based on the first characterization information and a target style that is included in the one or more styles; and execute at least one optimization algorithm to generate a second design based on the style score, wherein the second design is more representative of the target style than the first design.
</claims>
</document>
