<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63B24/00,G16H20/30,G16H40/63,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARDEE, CHRISTOPHER J.
JOROFF, STEVEN R.
MCGRODDY-GOETZ, KATHY A.
NESBITT, PAMELA A.
SCHNEIDER, SCOTT E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63852355
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Personalized Training Based on Planned Course and Personal Assessment
</title>

<abstract>
Mechanisms are provided for implementing a personalized training recommendation system. A request is received from a user to generate a personalized training regimen for a specified athletic event and event information is identified comprising characteristics of one or more geographical segments of the specified athletic event. Based on the event information, one or more portions of a geographical region are identified that approximate one or more characteristics of the one or more geographical segments within a predetermined tolerance. A training course is generated at least by combining a selected set of the portions of the geographical region based on an evaluation of a level of matching, for each portion, of characteristics of the portion to the one or more physical characteristics associated with the one or more geographical segments of the specified athletic event, which is then presented to the user as the personalized training regimen for the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, in a data processing system comprising at least one processor and at least one memory, the at least one memory comprising instructions executed by the at least one processor to cause the at least one processor to implement a personalized training recommendation system, the method comprising: receiving, by the personalized training recommendation system, a request from a user to generate a personalized training regimen for a specified athletic event occurring at a future time; identifying, by the personalized training recommendation system, event information comprising characteristics of one or more geographical segments of the specified athletic event, wherein the characteristics specify at least one physical feature or environmental feature of each of the one or more geographical segments; identifying, by the personalized training recommendation system based on the event information, from a knowledge base, one or more portions of a geographical region, within a specified geographical range of a home location associated with the user, that approximate the one or more characteristics of the one or more geographical segments associated with the specified athletic event within a predetermined tolerance; generating, by the personalized training recommendation system, a training course at least by combining a selected set of the portions of the geographical region based on an evaluation of a level of matching, for each portion, of characteristics of the portion to the one or more physical characteristics associated with the one or more geographical segments of the specified athletic event, wherein the training course provides conditions that assist the user in training for encountering the physical features or environmental features of the one or more geographical segments of the specified athletic event at the future time; and presenting, by the personalized training recommendation system, the generated training course to the user as the personalized training regimen for use by the user in preparing for the specified athletic event.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the event information includes one or more of a date of the specified athletic event, a location of the specified athletic event, a course map of the specified athletic event, a terrain associated with the course, or historical environmental characteristics associated with the location and the date.
3. 3-4. (canceled)
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: monitoring, by the personalized training recommendation system, performance of the user during training on the generated training course to generate performance data; determining, by the personalized training recommendation system, areas of weakness or insufficient performance by the user on the training course based on an evaluation of the performance data; and correlating, by the personalized training recommendation system, the areas of weakness or insufficient performance with characteristics of corresponding portions of the training course.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: correlating, by the personalized training recommendation system, the areas of weakness or insufficient performance, the characteristics of corresponding portions of the training course, and one or more exercises to be performed on one or more pieces of exercise devices to train the user for those characteristics of the corresponding portions of the training course; and presenting, by the personalized training recommendation system, an output to the user to inform them of the areas of weakness or insufficient performance, the characteristics of the corresponding portions of the training course, and the one or more exercises to be performed.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising: modifying, by the personalized training recommendation system, the training course to include one or more other portions of the geographical region, not previously in the set of portions, based on the correlation of areas of weakness or insufficient performance with characteristics of corresponding portions of the training course, to thereby generate a modified training course.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the one or more other portions are one or more other portions that have at least one similar characteristic to the characteristics of the corresponding portions of the training course for which the user has shown a weakness or insufficient performance.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the training course comprises concatenating the selected set of portions with other non-selected intervening portions between selected portions to form a contiguous training course.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein presenting the generated training course to the user as the personalized training regimen for use by the user in preparing for the specified athletic event comprises transmitting data defining the training course to a wearable health or activity monitoring device associated with the user.
11. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having a computer readable program stored therein, wherein the computer readable program, when executed on a computing device, causes the computing device to: receive a request from a user to generate a personalized training regimen for a specified athletic event occurring at a future time; identify event information comprising characteristics of one or more geographical segments of the specified athletic event, wherein the characteristics specify at least one physical feature or environmental feature of each of the one or more geographical segments; identify, based on the event information, from a knowledge base, one or more portions of a geographical region, within a specified geographical range of a home location associated with the user that approximate the one or more characteristics of the one or more geographical segments associated with the specified athletic event within a predetermined tolerance; generate a training course at least by combining a selected set of the portions of the geographical region based on an evaluation of a level of matching, for each portion, of characteristics of the portion to the one or more physical characteristics associated with the one or more geographical segments of the specified athletic event, wherein the training course provides conditions that assist the user in training for encountering the physical features or environmental features of the one or more geographical segments of the specified athletic event at the future time; and present the generated training course to the user as the personalized training regimen for use by the user in preparing for the specified athletic event.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the event information includes one or more of a date of the specified athletic event, a location of the specified athletic event, a course map of the specified athletic event, a terrain associated with the course, or historical environmental characteristics associated with the location and the date.
13. 13-14. (canceled)
15. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the computer readable program further causes the computing device to: monitor performance of the user during training on the generated training course to generate performance data; determine areas of weakness or insufficient performance by the user on the training course based on an evaluation of the performance data; and correlate the areas of weakness or insufficient performance with characteristics of corresponding portions of the training course.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the computer readable program further causes the computing device to: correlate the areas of weakness or insufficient performance, the characteristics of corresponding portions of the training course, and one or more exercises to be performed on one or more pieces of exercise devices to train the user for those characteristics of the corresponding portions of the training course; and present an output to the user to inform them of the areas of weakness or insufficient performance, the characteristics of the corresponding portions of the training course, and the one or more exercises to be performed.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the computer readable program further causes the computing device to: modify the training course to include one or more other portions of the geographical region, not previously in the set of portions, based on the correlation of areas of weakness or insufficient performance with characteristics of corresponding portions of the training course, to thereby generate a modified training course.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the one or more other portions are one or more other portions that have at least one similar characteristic to the characteristics of the corresponding portions of the training course for which the user has shown a weakness or insufficient performance.
19. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the computer readable program further causes the computing device to generate the training course at least by concatenating the selected set of portions with other non-selected intervening portions between selected portions to form a contiguous training course.
20. An apparatus comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor, wherein the memory comprises instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: receive a request from a user to generate a personalized training regimen for a specified athletic event occurring at a future time; identify event information comprising characteristics of one or more geographical segments of the specified athletic event, wherein the characteristics specify at least one physical feature or environmental feature of each of the one or more geographical segments; identify, based on the event information, from a knowledge base, one or more portions of a geographical region, within a specified geographical range of a home location associated with the user, that approximate the one or more characteristics of the one or more geographical segments associated with the specified athletic event within a predetermined tolerance; generate a training course at least by combining a selected set of the portions of the geographical region based on an evaluation of a level of matching, for each portion, of characteristics of the portion to the one or more physical characteristics associated with the one or more geographical segments of the specified athletic event, wherein the training course provides conditions that assist the user in training for encountering the physical features or environmental features of the one or more geographical segments of the specified athletic event at the future time; and present the generated training course to the user as the personalized training regimen for use by the user in preparing for the specified athletic event.
21. The method of claim 1, wherein the event information includes one or more of a date of the specified athletic event, a location of the specified athletic event, a course map of the specified athletic event, a terrain associated with the course, or historical environmental characteristics associated with the location and the date.
22. The method of claim 1, further comprising: monitoring performance of the user during training on the generated training course to generate performance data; determining areas of weakness or insufficient performance by the user on the training course based on an evaluation of the performance data; and correlating the areas of weakness or insufficient performance with characteristics of corresponding portions of the training course.
23. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating the training course at least by concatenating the selected set of portions with other non-selected intervening portions between selected portions to form a contiguous training course.
24. The method of claim 1, wherein the request specifies a temporal criterion for the specified athletic event, and wherein a cognitive computing system performs a cognitive computing analysis of a corpus of information to predict at least one of physical features or environmental characteristics of the specified athletic event corresponding to the temporal criterion specified in the request.
</claims>
</document>
