<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZICT TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAI, Qingguo
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61215359
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NETWORK TRAFFIC ANOMALY DETECTION METHOD, APPARATUS, COMPUTER DEVICE AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are a network traffic anomaly detection method and apparatus, a computer device and a storage medium. The method includes: collecting network traffic data in real time, and storing the network traffic data in a first preset database; determining network traffic anomaly detection model data according to network traffic data collected within a preset time period; and determining whether network traffic data collected after the preset time period is anomalous according to the network traffic anomaly detection model data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A network traffic anomaly detection method, comprising: collecting network traffic data in real time, and storing the network traffic data in a first preset database; determining network traffic anomaly detection model data according to network traffic data collected within a preset time period stored in the first preset database; and determining whether network traffic data collected after the preset time period is anomalous according to the network traffic anomaly detection model data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the network traffic anomaly detection model data according to the network traffic data collected within the preset time period comprises: determining a first outlier factor corresponding to each of the network traffic data collected within the preset time period based on a local outlier factor algorithm; in response to determining that the first outlier factor is greater than a first preset threshold, labelling the each of the network traffic data corresponding to the first outlier factor with an anomalous state; in response to determining that the first outlier factor is less than or equal to the first preset threshold, labelling the each of the network traffic data corresponding to the first outlier factor with a normal state; and determining the network traffic anomaly detection model data according to the labelled each of the network traffic data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the network traffic data collected after the preset time period is anomalous according to the network traffic anomaly detection model data comprises: forming a data set according to the network traffic data collected after the preset time period and the network traffic anomaly detection model data; determining a second outlier factor of the network traffic data collected after the preset time period in the data set based on a local outlier factor algorithm; in response to determining that the second outlier factor is greater than a second preset threshold, determining that the network traffic data corresponding to the second outlier factor is anomalous; and in response to determining that the second outlier factor is less than or equal to the second preset threshold, determining that the network traffic data corresponding to the second outlier factor is normal.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to determining that the network traffic data collected after the preset time period is anomalous, adding the network traffic data collected after the preset time period to a second preset database; and parsing and counting network traffic data in the second preset database to obtain a counting result, and updating a display content of an anomaly display interface according to the counting result.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the network traffic data comprises an access time period, an access source Internet protocol (IP) address, an access destination IP address, an access source port, an access destination port, a number of input bytes and a number of output bytes.
6. A network traffic anomaly detection apparatus, comprising a processor and a memory for storing execution instructions that when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform steps in following units: a collection unit, which is configured to collect network traffic data in real time, and store the network traffic data in a first preset database; an establishment unit, which is configured to determine network traffic anomaly detection model data according to network traffic data collected within a preset time period stored in the first preset database; and a determining unit, which is configured to determine whether network traffic data collected after the preset time period is anomalous according to the network traffic anomaly detection model data.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the determining unit is further configured to determine a first outlier factor corresponding to each of the network traffic data collected within the preset time period based on a local outlier factor algorithm; the network traffic anomaly detection apparatus further comprises: a labelling unit, which is configured to: in response to determining that the first outlier factor is greater than a first preset threshold, label the each of the network traffic data corresponding to the first outlier factor with an anomalous state; and in response to determining that the first outlier factor is less than or equal to the first preset threshold, label the each of the network traffic data corresponding to the first outlier factor with a normal state; and the establishment unit is further configured to determine the network traffic anomaly detection model data according to the labelled each of the network traffic data.
8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the units further comprise: a forming unit, which is configured to form a data set according to the network traffic data collected after the preset time period and the network traffic anomaly detection model data; wherein the determining unit is further configured to determine a second outlier factor of the network traffic data collected after the preset time period in the data set based on a local outlier factor algorithm; the determining unit is further configured to: in response to determining that the second outlier factor is greater than a second preset threshold, determine that the network traffic data corresponding to the second outlier factor is anomalous; and the determining unit is further configured to: in response to determining that the second outlier factor is less than or equal to the second preset threshold, determine that the network traffic data corresponding to the second outlier factor is normal.
9. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the units further comprise: an adding unit, which is configured to: in response to determining that the network traffic data collected after the preset time period is anomalous, add the network traffic data collected after the preset time period to a second preset database; and a parsing unit, which is configured to parse and count network traffic data in the second preset database to obtain a counting result, and update a display content of an anomaly display interface according to the counting result.
10. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the network traffic data comprises an access time period, an access source Internet protocol (IP) address, an access destination IP address, an access source port, an access destination port, a number of input bytes and a number of output bytes.
11. A computer device, comprising a processor which, when executing computer programs stored in a memory, implements the network traffic anomaly detection method of claim 1.
12. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, storing computer programs thereon, wherein the computer programs, when executed by a processor, implement the network traffic anomaly detection method of claim 1.
13. The method of claim 2, further comprising: in response to determining that the network traffic data collected after the preset time period is anomalous, adding the network traffic data collected after the preset time period to a second preset database; and parsing and counting network traffic data in the second preset database to obtain a counting result, and updating a display content of an anomaly display interface according to the counting result.
14. The method of claim 4, further comprising: in response to determining that the network traffic data collected after the preset time period is anomalous, adding the network traffic data collected after the preset time period to a second preset database; and parsing and counting network traffic data in the second preset database to obtain a counting result, and updating a display content of an anomaly display interface according to the counting result.
15. The method of claim 2, wherein the network traffic data comprises an access time period, an access source Internet protocol (IP) address, an access destination IP address, an access source port, an access destination port, a number of input bytes and a number of output bytes.
16. The method of claim 3, wherein the network traffic data comprises an access time period, an access source Internet protocol (IP) address, an access destination IP address, an access source port, an access destination port, a number of input bytes and a number of output bytes.
17. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the units further comprises: an adding unit, which is configured to: in response to determining that the network traffic data collected after the preset time period is anomalous, add the network traffic data collected after the preset time period to a second preset database; and a parsing unit, which is configured to parse and count network traffic data in the second preset database to obtain a counting result, and update a display content of an anomaly display interface according to the counting result.
18. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the units further comprises: an adding unit, which is configured to: in response to determining that the network traffic data collected after the preset time period is anomalous, add the network traffic data collected after the preset time period to a second preset database; and a parsing unit, which is configured to parse and count network traffic data in the second preset database to obtain a counting result, and update a display content of an anomaly display interface according to the counting result.
</claims>
</document>
