<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61N1/02,A61N1/36,G16H20/30,G16H40/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC NEUROMODULATION CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
STEINKE, G. KARL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74042950
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TAGGING STIMULATION FIELD MODELS WITH ASSOCIATED STIMULATION EFFECT TYPES
</title>

<abstract>
An example of a system for programming neurostimulation according to a stimulation configuration may include stimulation configuration circuitry, volume definition circuitry, stimulation effect circuitry, and recording circuitry. The stimulation configuration circuitry may be configured to determine the stimulation configuration. The volume definition circuitry may be configured to determine stimulation field model(s) (SFM(s)) each representing a volume of tissue activated by the neurostimulation. The stimulation effect circuitry may be configured to determine a stimulation effect type for each tagging point specified for the SFM(s) and to tag the SFM(s) at each tagging point with the stimulation effect type determined for that tagging point. The stimulation effect type for each tagging point is a type of stimulation resulting from the neurostimulation as measured at that tagging point. The recording circuitry may be configured to generate SFM data representing the determined SFM(s) with the stimulation effect type tagged at each tagging point.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for programming a stimulation device to deliver neurostimulation to tissue of a patient according to a stimulation configuration, the system comprising: stimulation configuration circuitry configured to determine the stimulation configuration; volume definition circuitry configured to determine one or more stimulation field models (SFMs) each representing a volume of the tissue activated by the delivery of the neurostimulation according to the stimulation configuration; stimulation effect circuitry configured to determine a stimulation effect type for each tagging point specified for the one or more SFMs and to tag the one or more SFMs at the each tagging point with the stimulation effect type determined for that tagging point, the stimulation effect type for each tagging point being a type of stimulation resulting from the delivery of the neurostimulation according to the stimulation configuration as measured at that tagging point; and recording circuitry configured to generate SFM data representing the determined one or more SFMs with the stimulation effect type tagged at the each tagging point.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a presentation device; and presentation circuitry configured to present the determined one or more SFMs with visual indication of the stimulation effect type for the each tagging point on the presentation device using the generated SFM data.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the presentation device comprises a display screen, and the presentation circuitry is configured to display on the display screen visually distinctive features assigned to various stimulation effect types.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the visually distinctive features comprise at least one of various degrees of shading, various degrees of opacity, various textures, or various colors.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the stimulation effect circuitry is configured to determine a polarity of the stimulation effect type.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the stimulation effect circuitry is further configured to determine a neurostimulation pulse type of the stimulation effect type.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the stimulation effect circuitry is configured to determine a voltage profile for the each tagging point being a voltage signal measured at the tagging point and representing the stimulation field at the tagging point and to extract one or more features as a representation of the stimulation effect type from at least one of the voltage profile or one or more derivatives of the voltage profile.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the stimulation effect circuitry is configured to determine the stimulation effect type for each SFM of the one or more SFMs.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the stimulation effect circuitry is configured to determine the stimulation effect type for each grid point in or on the one or more SFMs or voxel within the one or more SFMs.
10. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a programming control circuit configured to generate a plurality of stimulation parameters controlling delivery of the neurostimulation according to a stimulation configuration, the neurostimulation delivered through one or more electrodes of the plurality of electrodes; and a user interface including a presentation device, a user input device, and a stimulation control circuit coupled to the presentation device and the user input device, the stimulation control circuit including the stimulation configuration circuitry, the volume definition circuitry, the stimulation effect circuitry, and the recording circuitry.
11. A method for programming a stimulation device to deliver neurostimulation to tissue of a patient according to a stimulation configuration, the method comprising: determining the stimulation configuration using a processor; determining one or more stimulation field models (SFMs) using the processor, the one or more SFMs each representing a volume of the tissue activated by the delivery of the neurostimulation according to the stimulation configuration; determining a stimulation effect type for each tagging point using the processor, the each tagging point specified for the one or more SFMs, the stimulation effect type for each tagging point being a type of stimulation resulting from the delivery of the neurostimulation according to the stimulation configuration as measured at that tagging point; tagging the one or more SFMs at the each tagging point with the stimulation effect type determined for that tagging point using the processor; and generating SFM data using the processor, the SFM data representing the determined one or more SFMs with the stimulation effect type tagged at the each tagging point.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: displaying the determined one or more SFMs with visual indication of the stimulation effect type for the each tagging point on a display screen; and displaying visually distinctive features assigned to various stimulation effect types on the display screen.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein displaying the visually distinctive features comprises displaying at least one of various degrees of shading, various degrees of opacity, various textures, or various colors.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein determining the stimulation effect type comprises determining a polarity.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein determining the stimulation effect type comprises determining a neurostimulation pulse type.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein determining the stimulation effect type comprises determining a voltage profile for the each tagging point being a voltage signal measured at the tagging point and representing the stimulation field at the tagging point.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein determining the stimulation effect type further comprises extracting one or more features as a representation of the stimulation effect type from at least one of the voltage profile or one or more derivatives of the voltage profile.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein determining the stimulation effect type further comprises determining the stimulation effect type for each SFM of the one or more SFMs.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein determining the stimulation effect type further comprises determining the stimulation effect type for each grid point in or on the one or more SFMs or voxel within the one or more SFMs.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions, which when executed by a system, cause the system to perform a method for programming a stimulation device to deliver neurostimulation to tissue of a patient according to a stimulation configuration, the method comprising: determining the stimulation configuration; determining one or more stimulation field models (SFMs) each representing a volume of the tissue activated by the delivery of the neurostimulation according to the stimulation configuration; determining a stimulation effect type for each tagging point specified for the one or more SFMs, the stimulation effect type for each tagging point being a type of stimulation resulting from the delivery of the neurostimulation according to the stimulation configuration as measured at that tagging point; tagging the one or more SFMs at the each tagging point with the stimulation effect type determined for that tagging point; and generating SFM data representing the determined one or more SFMs with the stimulation effect type tagged at the each tagging point.
</claims>
</document>
