<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,H04L12/24,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HERE GLOBAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
VISWANATHAN, ANIRUDH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68944592
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and apparatus for regulating resource consumption by one or more sensors of a sensor array
</title>

<abstract>
A method is provided for dynamically throttling processing and memory consumption of sensors based on context. Methods may include: receiving first sensor data from a first sensor, where the first sensor data includes data associated with an environment of the sensor; applying an auto-encoder framework to the first sensor data to establish a data difference score between frames of the first sensor data, where a relatively high data difference score corresponds to substantial differences between frames of the first sensor data, and wherein a relatively low data difference score corresponds to insubstantial differences between frames of the first sensor data; reducing a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data being relatively low; capturing first sensor data from the first sensor at the reduced frame rate; and providing for storage of the first sensor data.
</abstract>

<claims>
That which is claimed:
1. An apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one non-transitory memory including computer program code instructions, the computer program code instructions configured to, when executed, cause the apparatus to at least: receive first sensor data from a first sensor, wherein the first sensor data comprises data associated with an environment of the first sensor; apply an auto-encoder framework to the first sensor data to establish a data difference score between frames of the first sensor data, wherein a relatively high data difference score corresponds to substantial differences between frames of the first sensor data, and wherein a relatively low data difference score corresponds to insubstantial differences between frames of the first sensor data; reduce a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data being relatively low; capture first sensor data from the first sensor at the reduced frame rate; and provide for storage of first sensor data.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: apply the auto-encoder framework to establish a data difference score between frames of the first sensor data captured at the reduced frame rate; and increase a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data captured at the reduced frame rate being relatively high.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: reduce a resolution of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data being relatively low.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: apply the auto-encoder framework to establish a data difference score between frames of the first sensor data captured at the reduced resolution; and increase a resolution of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data captured at the reduced frame rate being relatively high.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein causing the apparatus to reduce a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data being relatively low comprises causing the apparatus to reduce a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to receiving an indication of reduced power availability.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a data difference score between frames of the first sensor data may be established, wherein causing the apparatus to reduce a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data being relatively low comprises causing the apparatus to reduce a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data failing to satisfy a predetermined value.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the apparatus is further caused to increase the predetermined value in response to receiving an indication to reduce power consumption.
8. A computer program product comprising at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable program code instructions stored therein, the computer-executable program code instructions comprising program code instructions to: receive first sensor data from a first sensor, wherein the first sensor data comprises data associated with an environment of the first sensor; apply an auto-encoder framework to the first sensor data to establish a data difference score between frames of the first sensor data, wherein a relatively high data difference score corresponds to substantial differences between frames of the first sensor data, and wherein a relatively low data difference score corresponds to insubstantial differences between frames of the first sensor data; reduce a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data being relatively low; capture first sensor data from the first sensor at the reduced frame rate; and provide for storage of first sensor data.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising program code instructions to: apply the auto-encoder framework to establish a data difference score between frames of the first sensor data captured at the reduced frame rate; and increase a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data captured at the reduced frame rate being relatively high.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising program code instructions to: reduce a resolution of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data being relatively low.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, further comprising program code instructions to: apply the auto-encoder framework to establish a data difference score between frames of the first sensor data captured at the reduced resolution; and increase a resolution of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data captured at the reduced frame rate being relatively high.
12. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the program code instructions to reduce a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data being relatively low comprises program code instructions to reduce a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to receiving an indication of reduced power availability.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein a data difference score between frames of the first sensor data may be established, wherein the program code instructions to reduce a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data being relatively low comprises program code instructions to reduce a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data failing to satisfy a predetermined value.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, further comprising program code instructions to increase the predetermined value in response to receiving an indication to reduce power consumption.
15. A method comprising: receiving first sensor data from a first sensor, wherein the first sensor data comprises data associated with an environment of the first sensor; applying an auto-encoder framework to the first sensor data to establish a data difference score between frames of the first sensor data, wherein a relatively high data difference score corresponds to substantial differences between frames of the first sensor data, and wherein a relatively low data difference score corresponds to insubstantial differences between frames of the first sensor data; reducing a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data being relatively low; capturing first sensor data from the first sensor at the reduced frame rate; and providing for storage of first sensor data.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying the auto-encoder framework to establish a data difference score between frames of the first sensor data captured at the reduced frame rate; and increasing a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data captured at the reduced frame rate being relatively high.
17. The method of claim 1, further comprising: reducing a resolution of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data being relatively low.
18. The method of claim 3, further comprising: applying the auto-encoder framework to establish a data difference score between frames of the first sensor data captured at the reduced resolution; and increasing a resolution of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data captured at the reduced frame rate being relatively high.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein reducing a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data being relatively low comprises reducing a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to receiving an indication of reduced power availability.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein a data difference score between frames of the first sensor data may be established, wherein reducing a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data being relatively low comprises reducing a frame rate of data capture of the first sensor in response to the data difference score between frames of the first sensor data failing to satisfy a predetermined value, wherein the method further comprises increasing the predetermined value in response to receiving an indication to reduce power consumption.
</claims>
</document>
