<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-11-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W24/10,H04W4/02,H04W52/24,H04W52/28,H04W72/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PARALLEL WIRELESS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DONEPUDI, SRIDHAR
PAPA, STEVEN PAUL
MELLOR, SIMON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54608954
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Self-Calibrating and Self-Adjusting Network
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for a self-calibrating and self-adjusting network are disclosed. In one embodiment, a method is disclosed, comprising: obtaining a signal strength parameter for a mobile device at a base station; obtaining a position of the mobile device at the base station; and associating the position and the signal strength parameter in a database. The method may further comprise one or more of: adjusting transmission power for the mobile device at the base station based on the associated position and signal strength parameter; computing the position of the mobile device at the base station; calculating an average of the signal strength parameter over a time window, and storing the average associated with the position. The signal strength parameter may include at least one of a block error rate (BLER) and a radio signal strength indicator (RSSI), and the position may be a global positioning system (GPS) position.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: obtaining, at a base station situated between a mobile device and a coordinating server, a measurement report for a device; obtaining, at the base station, a position of the mobile device; associating, at the base station, the position and the measurement report and a time of the measurement report as a record in a database; aggregating, at the coordinating server situated in a data path between the base station and a core network, additional records from the database that match an identifier of the mobile device, and that are within a period of time that includes a time of the record, and that are within a geographic location that includes position of the record; compiling, at the base station, a record of call drops per aggregated location at the database; performing, at the base station, prediction of future call drops based on the compiled record of call drops per aggregated location and a position parameter; storing, at the base station, at least one statistical measure of a signal strength parameter of the aggregated additional records; updating, at the base station, a minimum and a maximum threshold value for an operational network parameter based on the stored at least one statistical measure; and adjusting, at the base station, the operational network parameter based on the minimum and the maximum threshold value, thereby providing an improvement to a radio access network over a geographic area.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the mobile device is a user equipment (UE), the base station is an eNodeB, and the database is located at the base station, a coordinating server, or both.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the operational network parameter is transmission power of the base station.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising computing, at the base station, the position of the mobile device.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving, at the base station, the position of the mobile device from the mobile device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein associating as a record further comprises calculating an average of the signal strength parameter over a time window, and storing the average associated with the position.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising associating, at the base station, the signal strength parameter with a current time.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the signal strength parameter includes at least one of a block error rate (BLER) and a radio signal strength indicator (RSSI), and the position is a global positioning system (GPS) position.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising associating, at the base station, a position and a signal strength parameter for a second mobile device.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising associating, at the base station, a position and an aggregate signal strength parameter calculated from signal strength parameters from multiple mobile devices.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the signal strength parameter is calculated by averaging over time, averaging over the multiple mobile devices, or selecting a single value reflecting a relative minimum signal strength.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving, at the base station, the position or the signal strength parameter from the mobile device via a mobile device measurement report message.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising sampling, at the base station, the signal strength parameter for the mobile device.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising obtaining, at the base station, a second signal strength parameter for the mobile device and comparing the second signal strength parameter with an original signal strength parameter to continue adjusting the operational network parameter.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein associating the position and the signal strength parameter occurs at the base station.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting transmission power at one or more base stations based on the associated position of the mobile device and signal strength parameter to maintain a desired transmission range of the one or more base stations.
17. The method of claim 1, further comprising detecting, at the base station, an aberrant signal strength parameter, and sending an alarm message to a management system, to enable a network operator to address the aberrant signal strength parameter.
18. The method of claim 1, further comprising detecting, at the base station, an aberrant signal strength parameter, and adjusting transmission power at one or more base stations to ameliorate the aberrant signal strength parameter.
19. A method, comprising: receiving, at a network node, a signal quality measurement for a mobile device, wherein the network node is a coordinating server in a data path between a base station and a core network; storing, at the network node, the signal quality measurement, a user equipment identifier of the mobile device, a time of the signal quality measurement, and a location of the mobile device location as a record at an aggregation server; aggregating, at the network node, additional records that match an identifier of the mobile device, and that are within a period of time that includes a time of the record, and that are within a geographic location that includes a position of the record; storing, at the network node, at least one statistical measure of a signal quality measurement of the aggregated additional records; updating, at the network node, a minimum and a maximum threshold value for an operational network parameter based on the stored at least one statistical measure; and adjusting, at the network node, the operational network parameter based on the minimum and the maximum threshold value, compiling, at the base station, a record of call drops per aggregated location at the database; performing, at the base station, prediction of future call drops based on the compiled record of call drops per aggregated location and a position parameter, thereby providing an improvement to the radio access network over a geographic area.
20. The method of claim 20, wherein the signal quality measurement is one of call drop rate and block error rate, and wherein the mobile device location is derived from a global positioning service (GPS) coordinate location associated with the mobile device, and wherein the mobile device is a user equipment (UE).
</claims>
</document>
