<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/095,G05D1/02,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARTICA AI
</assignee>

<inventors>
ODINAEV, KARINA
RAICHELGAUZ, IGAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70325357
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ESTIMATING DANGER FROM FUTURE FALLING CARGO
</title>

<abstract>
A method for estimating a future fall of a cargo, the method may include receiving by a computerized system, sensed information related to driving sessions of multiple vehicles; applying a machine learning process on the sensed information to detect actual or estimated cargo falling events and generate one or more future falling cargo predictors for multiple types of cargo; estimating, from the sensed information, an impact of cargo falling events related to at least some of the types of cargo; and responding to the estimating, wherein the responding comprises at least one out of (a) storing the one or more future falling cargo predictors for the multiple types of cargo, (b) transmitting the one or more future falling cargo predictors for the multiple types of cargo; (c) storing the estimated impact of cargo falling events related to the at least some of the types of cargo, and (d) transmitting the impact of cargo falling events related to the at least some of the types of cargo.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for estimating a future fall of a cargo, the method comprises: receiving by a computerized system, sensed information related to driving sessions of multiple vehicles; applying a machine learning process on the sensed information to detect actual or estimated cargo falling events and generate one or more future falling cargo predictors for multiple types of cargo; estimating, from the sensed information, an impact of cargo falling events related to at least some of the types of cargo; and responding to the estimating, wherein the responding comprises at least one out of (a) storing the one or more future falling cargo predictors for the multiple types of cargo, (b) transmitting the one or more future falling cargo predictors for the multiple types of cargo; (c) storing the estimated impact of cargo falling events related to the at least some of the types of cargo, and (d) transmitting the impact of cargo falling events related to the at least some of the types of cargo.
2. The method according to claim 1, comprising determining suggested vehicle behavior in response to cargo falling events related to the at least some of the types of cargo.
3. The method according to claim 1, comprising detecting a behavior of a vehicle conveying a cargo of a certain type that contributes to the falling of cargo of the certain type; and associating an indication of the behavior with a future falling cargo predictor for the certain cargo class.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the machine learning process is a supervised machine learning process.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the machine learning process is a unsupervised machine learning process.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the applying of the machine learning process comprises training the machine learning process with samples of cargos of the multiple types and with samples of cases where the cargo of the multiple types fell.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the applying of the machine learning process comprises identifying spatial relationship between the cargo of the different types and vehicles conveying the cargo of the different types and an outcome of the conveying of the cargo of the multiple types.
8. A non-transitory computer readable medium for detecting fallen cargo, the non-transitory computer readable medium stores instructions for: receiving by a computerized system, sensed information related to driving sessions of multiple vehicles; applying a machine learning process on the sensed information to detect actual or estimated cargo falling events and generate one or more future falling cargo predictors for multiple types of cargo; estimating, from the sensed information, an impact of cargo falling events related to at least some of the types of cargo; and responding to the estimating, wherein the responding comprises at least one out of (a) storing the one or more future falling cargo predictors for the multiple types of cargo, (b) transmitting the one or more future falling cargo predictors for the multiple types of cargo; (c) storing the estimated impact of cargo falling events related to the at least some of the types of cargo, and (d) transmitting the impact of cargo falling events related to the at least some of the types of cargo.
9. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 8, that stores instructions for determining suggested vehicle behavior in response to cargo falling events related to the at least some of the types of cargo.
10. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 8, that stores instructions for detecting a behavior of a vehicle conveying a cargo of a certain type that contributes to the falling of cargo of the certain type; and associating an indication of the behavior with a future falling cargo predictor for the certain cargo class.
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 8, wherein the machine learning process is a supervised machine learning process.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 8, wherein the machine learning process is a unsupervised machine learning process.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 8, wherein the applying of the machine learning process comprises training the machine learning process with samples of cargos of the multiple types and with samples of cases where the cargo of the multiple types fell.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 8, wherein the applying of the machine learning process comprises identifying spatial relationship between the cargo of the different types and vehicles conveying the cargo of the different types and an outcome of the conveying of the cargo of the multiple types.
15. A method for estimating a future fall of a cargo conveyed by a monitored vehicle, the method comprises: receiving, by a monitoring vehicle, one or more future falling cargo predictors for multiple types of cargo that were learnt by applying a machine learning process; sensing by at least one sensor the monitoring vehicle to provide monitoring results; determining a cargo class carried by the monitored vehicle; estimating, based on the cargo class and a future falling cargo predictor associated to the cargo class, whether the cargo conveyed by the monitored vehicle will fall before the monitoring vehicle will pass the monitored vehicle; and responding to the estimating, wherein the responding comprises at least one out of (a) providing a falling cargo indication, (b) amending a behavior of the monitoring vehicle, and (c) suggesting a suggested falling cargo avoidance driving pattern.
16. The method according to claim 15, wherein a future falling cargo predictors associated with the cargo class is indicative of a behavior of a vehicle conveying the cargo that contributes to a future falling of cargo; and wherein the estimating is based, at least in part, on a behavior of the monitored vehicle.
17. The method according to claim 15, wherein the future falling cargo predictor associated with the cargo class is indicative of an attribute of a road that contributes to a future falling of cargo; and wherein the estimating is based, at least in part, on a road over which the monitored vehicle is driving or is about to drive.
18. A non-transitory computer readable medium for estimating a future fall of a cargo conveyed by a monitored vehicle, the non-transitory computer readable medium stores instructions for: receiving, by a monitoring vehicle, one or more future falling cargo predictors for multiple types of cargo that were learnt by applying a machine learning process; sensing by at least one sensor the monitoring vehicle to provide monitoring results; determining a cargo class carried by the monitored vehicle; estimating, based on the cargo class and a future falling cargo predictor associated to the cargo class, whether the cargo conveyed by the monitored vehicle will fall before the monitoring vehicle will pass the monitored vehicle; and responding to the estimating, wherein the responding comprises at least one out of (a) providing a falling cargo indication, (b) amending a behavior of the monitoring vehicle, and (c) suggesting a suggested falling cargo avoidance driving pattern.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 15, wherein a future falling cargo predictors associated with the cargo class is indicative of a behavior of a vehicle conveying the cargo that contributes to a future falling of cargo; and wherein the estimating is based, at least in part, on a behavior of the monitored vehicle.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 15, wherein the future falling cargo predictor associated with the cargo class is indicative of an attribute of a road that contributes to a future falling of cargo; and wherein the estimating is based, at least in part, on a road over which the monitored vehicle is driving or is about to drive.
</claims>
</document>
