<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61M5/172,G16H20/17
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDTRONIC MINIMED
</assignee>

<inventors>
LINTEREUR, LOUIS J.
GROSMAN, BENYAMIN
ENGEL, TALY G.
ROY, ANIRBAN
CAMPBELL, ALEXANDER S.
DUNLEAVY, DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69948018
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INSULIN INFUSION DEVICE WITH EFFICIENT CONFIRMATION ROUTINE FOR BLOOD GLUCOSE MEASUREMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
An insulin infusion device and a related operating method are disclosed. The method obtains a blood glucose (BG) measurement of a blood sample from a user, displays the BG measurement on a display element of the infusion device, and receives a confirmation input that indicates user acceptance of the displayed BG measurement. In response to the confirmation input, a glucose sensor calibration routine is automatically initiated, and an insulin bolus calculation is automatically initiated. The calibration routine and the bolus calculation use the confirmed BG measurement. The method continues by controlling delivery of insulin, in accordance with the calculated insulin bolus, from a fluid reservoir of the insulin infusion device. The sensor calibration routine and the insulin bolus calculation are both performed without any additional user involvement or interaction with the user interface other than the user acceptance of the displayed BG measurement.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An insulin infusion device comprising: a drive system; at least one processor device that regulates operation of the drive system to deliver insulin from a fluid reservoir; a user interface comprising at least one human-machine interface element; a display element; and at least one memory element associated with the at least one processor device, the at least one memory element storing processor-executable instructions configurable to be executed by the at least one processor device to perform a method of controlling operation of the insulin infusion device, the method comprising: obtaining, at the insulin infusion device, a blood glucose (BG) measurement of a blood sample from a user, the BG measurement generated by a BG meter device; displaying the BG measurement on the display element; receiving, from the user interface, a confirmation input that indicates user acceptance of the BG measurement as displayed; in response to receiving the confirmation input, automatically initiating a glucose sensor calibration routine that uses at least the BG measurement as confirmed; in response to receiving the confirmation input, automatically initiating an insulin bolus calculation that uses at least the BG measurement as confirmed, resulting in a calculated insulin bolus; and controlling delivery of insulin, in accordance with the calculated insulin bolus, from the fluid reservoir of the insulin infusion device, wherein automatically initiating the glucose sensor calibration routine and automatically initiating the insulin bolus calculation are both performed without any additional user involvement or interaction with the user interface other than the user acceptance of the BG measurement as displayed.
2. The insulin infusion device of claim 1, wherein the obtaining step comprises: receiving, with the user interface, a user-entered value of the BG measurement.
3. The insulin infusion device of claim 1, wherein the obtaining step comprises: receiving the BG measurement directly from the BG meter device.
4. The insulin infusion device of claim 1, wherein the method performed by the at least one processor device further comprises the steps of: displaying, on the display element, the BG measurement during execution of the sensor calibration routine; and displaying, on the display element, a calibrated sensor glucose value after execution of the sensor calibration routine.
5. The insulin infusion device of claim 4, wherein the method performed by the at least one processor device further comprises the steps of: displaying, in response to receiving the confirmation input, a home screen on the display element, wherein the home screen includes the BG measurement during execution of the sensor calibration routine; and refreshing the home screen on the display element after execution of the sensor calibration routine, resulting in a refreshed home screen, wherein the refreshed home screen includes the calibrated sensor glucose value.
6. The insulin infusion device of claim 1, wherein the method performed by the at least one processor device is repeated by default for each obtained BG measurement.
7. The insulin infusion device of claim 1, wherein the insulin bolus calculation calculates a correction bolus.
8. The insulin infusion device of claim 1, wherein: the BG measurement is initially displayed on a BG confirmation screen rendered on the display element; and in response to receiving the confirmation input, the display element is immediately refreshed to render a home screen, without displaying any additional confirmation screens, without displaying any additional user input screens, and without requiring any additional user involvement.
9. A method of operating an insulin infusion device comprising a drive system, at least one processor device that regulates operation of the drive system to deliver insulin from a fluid reservoir, a user interface comprising at least one human-machine interface element, and a display element, the method comprising: obtaining, at the insulin infusion device, a blood glucose (BG) measurement of a blood sample from a user, the BG measurement generated by a BG meter device; displaying the BG measurement on the display element; receiving, from the user interface, a confirmation input that indicates user acceptance of the BG measurement as displayed; in response to receiving the confirmation input, automatically initiating a glucose sensor calibration routine that uses at least the BG measurement as confirmed; in response to receiving the confirmation input, automatically initiating an insulin bolus calculation that uses at least the BG measurement as confirmed, resulting in a calculated insulin bolus; and controlling delivery of insulin, in accordance with the calculated insulin bolus, from the fluid reservoir of the insulin infusion device, wherein automatically initiating the glucose sensor calibration routine and automatically initiating the insulin bolus calculation are both performed without any additional user involvement or interaction with the user interface other than the user acceptance of the BG measurement as displayed.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the obtaining step comprises: receiving, with the user interface, a user-entered value of the BG measurement.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the obtaining step comprises: receiving the BG measurement directly from the BG meter device.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising the steps of: displaying, on the display element, the BG measurement during execution of the sensor calibration routine; and displaying, on the display element, a calibrated sensor glucose value after execution of the sensor calibration routine.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising the steps of: displaying, in response to receiving the confirmation input, a home screen on the display element, wherein the home screen includes the BG measurement during execution of the sensor calibration routine; and refreshing the home screen on the display element after execution of the sensor calibration routine, resulting in a refreshed home screen that includes the calibrated sensor glucose value instead of the BG measurement.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the method is repeated by default for each obtained BG measurement.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the insulin bolus calculation calculates a correction bolus.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein: the BG measurement is initially displayed on a BG confirmation screen rendered on the display element; and in response to receiving the confirmation input, the display element is immediately refreshed to render a home screen, without displaying any additional confirmation screens, without displaying any additional user input screens, and without requiring any additional user involvement.
17. A method of operating an insulin infusion device comprising a drive system, at least one processor device that regulates operation of the drive system to deliver insulin from a fluid reservoir, a user interface comprising at least one human-machine interface element, and a display element, the method comprising: displaying, in a BG confirmation screen rendered on the display element, a blood glucose (BG) measurement of a blood sample from a user; receiving, from the user interface, a confirmation input that indicates user acceptance of the BG measurement as displayed; in response to receiving the confirmation input, automatically initiating a glucose sensor calibration routine that uses at least the BG measurement as confirmed; in response to receiving the confirmation input, automatically initiating an insulin bolus calculation that uses at least the BG measurement as confirmed, resulting in a calculated insulin bolus, wherein automatically initiating the glucose sensor calibration routine and automatically initiating the insulin bolus calculation are both performed without any additional user involvement or interaction with the user interface other than the user acceptance of the BG measurement as displayed; in response to receiving the confirmation input, refreshing the display element to render a home screen instead of the BG confirmation screen, without displaying any intervening display screens and without requiring any intervening user action, wherein the home screen includes the BG measurement during execution of the sensor calibration routine; and refreshing the home screen on the display element after execution of the sensor calibration routine, resulting in a refreshed home screen that includes the calibrated sensor glucose value instead of the BG measurement.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of: controlling delivery of insulin, in accordance with the calculated insulin bolus, from the fluid reservoir of the insulin infusion device.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the method is repeated by default for each obtained BG measurement.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the insulin bolus calculation calculates a correction bolus.
</claims>
</document>
