<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0488,H04L12/58,H04M1/725
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJI XEROX COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
TOKUCHI, KENGO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66432637
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INFORMATION PROCESSING APPARATUS, NON-TRANSITORY COMPUTER READABLE MEDIUM AND METHOD FOR PROCESSING INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
An information processing apparatus and non-transitory computer readable medium are provided. The information processing apparatus includes a processor configured to: control a display to display a first space for a first conversation including a first message and a second space for a second conversation next to each other, the first conversation being a conversation of a first group including a first member, the second conversation being a conversation of a second group; in response to a first operation received on the display, control the display to display, in the second space, the first member of the first group or the first message of the first conversation. The first operation is a gesture moving along the display from a first place on the display to a second place on the display in contact the display.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing apparatus comprising: a processor configured to: control a display to display a first space for a first conversation and a second space for a second conversation next to each other, the first conversation being a conversation of a first group, the second conversation being a conversation of a second group, the first group including a first member, the first conversation including a first message; in response to a first operation received on the display, control the display to display, in the second space, the first member of the first group or the first message of the first conversation, wherein the first operation is a gesture moving along the display from a first place on the display to a second place on the display in contact the display.
2. The information processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first member of the first group or the first message of the first conversation is the first member of the first group, wherein the processor is configured to control the display to display in the second space the member of the first space by adding the first member to the second group.
3. The information processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first member of the first group or the first message of the first conversation is the first message of the first conversation, wherein the processor is configured to control the display to display in the second space the first message by sending the first message to the second group.
4. The information processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first member of the first group or the first message of the first conversation is the first member of the first group, wherein the controlling of the display to display in the second space the content of the first message of the first conversation in response to the first operation being performed on the display comprises: identifying the first member from the first operation, receiving an instruction from a user to add the identified first member to the second group; and adding the first member to the second group in response to the instruction.
5. The information processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first member of the first group or the first message of the first conversation is the first message of the first conversation, wherein the controlling of the display to display in the second space the content of the first message of the first conversation in response to the first operation being performed on the display comprises: identifying the first message from the first operation, receiving an instruction from the user to send the identified first message to the second group; and sending the first message to the second group in response to the instruction.
6. The information processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first operation starts from a display portion displaying to the first space.
7. The information processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein a direction of the first operation is from a display portion displaying the first space to a display portion displaying the second space.
8. The information processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first operation ends at a display portion displaying the second space.
9. The information processing apparatus of claim 6, wherein the first operation ends at a display portion displaying the second space.
10. The information processing apparatus of claim 6, wherein the member of the first group or the first message of the first conversation is the member of the first group, wherein the controlling of the display to display the member of the first group is in response to the first operation starting from a display portion corresponding to the first message, wherein the processor is configured to control the display to display, in the second space, a second member of the first group in response to a second operation starting from a display portion corresponding to the second member.
11. The information processing apparatus of claim 7, wherein the member of the first group or the first message of the first conversation is the member of the first group, wherein the controlling of the display to display the member of the first group is in response to the first operation starting from a display portion corresponding to the first message, wherein the processor is configured to control the display to display, in the second space, a second member of the first group in response to a second operation starting from a display portion corresponding to the second member.
12. The information processing apparatus of claim 8, wherein the member of the first group or the first message of the first conversation is the member of the first group, wherein the controlling of the display to display the member of the first group is in response to the first operation starting from a display portion corresponding to the first message, wherein the processor is configured to control the display to display, in the second space, a second member of the first group in response to a second operation starting from a display portion corresponding to the second member.
13. The information processing apparatus of claim 6, wherein the member of the first group or the content of the first message of the first group is the first message of the first conversation, wherein the controlling of the display to display in the second space the first message of the first conversation is in response to the first operation starting from a display portion corresponding to the first message, wherein the processor is configured to control the display to display, in the second space, a second message of the first group in response to a second operation starting from a display portion corresponding to the second message.
14. The information processing apparatus of claim 7, wherein the member of the first group or the content of the first message of the first group is the first message of the first conversation, wherein the controlling of the display to display in the second space the first message of the first conversation is in response to the first operation starting from a display portion corresponding to the first message, wherein the processor is configured to control the display to display, in the second space, a second message of the first group in response to a second operation starting from a display portion corresponding to the second message.
15. The information processing apparatus of claim 8, wherein the member of the first group or the content of the first message of the first group is the first message of the first conversation, wherein the controlling of the display to display in the second space the first message of the first conversation is in response to the first operation starting from a display portion corresponding to the first message, wherein the processor is configured to control the display to display, in the second space, a second message of the first group in response to a second operation starting from a display portion corresponding to the second message.
16. The information processing apparatus of claim 4, wherein a start position of the first operation indicates the first member.
17. The information processing apparatus of claim 16, wherein the first position ends at a display portion displaying the second space.
18. The information processing apparatus of claim 5, wherein a start position of the first operation indicates the first message.
19. The information processing apparatus of claim 18, wherein the first position ends at a display portion displaying the second space.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a program that causes a computer to execute information processing, the information processing comprising: controlling a display to display a first space for a first conversation and a second space for a second conversation next to each other, the first conversation being a conversation of a first group, the second conversation being a conversation of a second group, the first group including a first member, the first conversation including a first message; in response to a first operation received on the display, controlling the display to display, in the second space, the first member of the first group or the first message of the first conversation, wherein the first operation is a gesture moving along the display from a first place on the display to a second place on the display in contact the display.
</claims>
</document>
