<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
COLLOMOSSE, JOHN
JIN, HAILIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70458632
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GUIDED CONTENT DISCOVERY IN VISUAL SEARCH
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present invention provide systems, methods, and computer storage media for guided visual search. A visual search query can be represented as a sketch sequence that includes ordering information of the constituent strokes in the sketch. The visual search query can be encoded into a structural search encoding in a common search space by a structural neural network. Indexed visual search results can be identified in the common search space and clustered in an auxiliary semantic space. Sketch suggestions can be identified from a plurality of indexed sketches in the common search space. A sketch suggestion can be identified for each semantic cluster of visual search results and presented with the cluster to guide a user towards relevant content through an iterative search process. Selecting a sketch suggestion as a target sketch can automatically transform the visual search query to the target sketch via adversarial images.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. One or more computer storage media storing computer-useable instructions that, when used by one or more computing devices, cause the one or more computing devices to perform operations comprising: accessing a first structural search encoding encoded from a visual search query into a common search space by a structural neural network; searching for visual search results by identifying an associated result set of structural search encodings, from indexed structural search encodings, based on proximity to the first structural search encoding in the common search space; clustering the visual search results into one or more clusters in an auxiliary semantic space; and causing presentation of at least one of the one or more clusters of visual search results.
2. The media of claim 1, the operations further comprising: encoding a plurality of images into the indexed structural search encodings in the common search space using the structural neural network; and encoding the plurality of images into indexed semantic search encodings in the auxiliary semantic space using a semantic neural network, wherein clustering the visual search results in the auxiliary semantic space comprises: identifying a result set of semantic search encodings, from the indexed semantic search encodings, associated with the result set of structural search encodings; and clustering the result set of semantic search encodings in the auxiliary semantic space.
3. The media of claim 1, the operations further comprising identifying a top cluster of visual search results of the one or more clusters based on proximity, in the common search space, between the visual search query and an indexed sketch associated with the top cluster.
4. The media of claim 3, the operations further comprising causing a presentation of the indexed sketch, as a sketch suggestion, in association with the top cluster of visual search results.
5. The media of claim 1, wherein the operations are part of a guided visual search comprising incremental query modifications to the visual search query and corresponding updated visual search results.
6. The media of claim 1, the operations further comprising: causing presentation of a sketch suggestion associated with one of the one or more clusters of visual search results; receiving a selection of the sketch suggestion as a target sketch; and automatically transforming the visual search query to the target sketch.
7. The media of claim 1, the operations further comprising causing presentation of a sketch suggestion associated with one of the one or more clusters of visual search results; receiving an input indicating a transformation from the visual search query to the sketch suggestion; and generating the transformation by: interpreting the input as designating a location in the common search space; generating an adversarial encoding by backpropagating a corresponding loss in the structural neural network; and generating an adversarial image from the adversarial encoding.
8. A computerized method for performing a visual search, the method comprising: accessing a first search encoding encoded from a first sketch sequence into a search space by a neural network configured to encode a sketch sequence and a rasterized image into the search space, the first sketch sequence corresponding to a visual search query and encoding strokes and ordering information of the strokes; searching a search index for a visual search result by identifying an associated matching search encoding, from indexed search encodings, based on proximity to the first search encoding in the search space; and causing presentation of the visual search result.
9. The computerized method of claim 7, further comprising: encoding a plurality of images into the indexed search encodings in the search space using the neural network; and saving the indexed search encodings in the search index.
10. The computerized method of claim 7, wherein the visual search result is one of a plurality of visual search results, wherein the search space is a structural search space, the method further comprising: clustering the visual search results into clusters in an auxiliary semantic space, wherein a first of the clusters includes the visual search result; and causing presentation of the first cluster of visual search results.
11. The computerized method of claim 10, further comprising identifying a sketch suggestion associated with the first cluster, from a plurality of indexed sketches, by: identifying a set of the visual search results in the first cluster; identifying, for each visual search result in the set, an associated sketch of the indexed sketches based on proximity to the visual search result in the search space; and identifying the sketch suggestion as a nearest sketch of the associated sketches based on proximity to the visual search query in the search space.
12. The computerized method of claim 7, wherein the method is part of a guided visual search comprising incremental query modifications to the visual search query and corresponding updated visual search results.
13. The computerized method of claim 7, further comprising causing presentation of a sketch suggestion associated with the visual search result; receiving a selection of the sketch suggestion as a target sketch; and automatically transforming the visual search query to the target sketch.
14. The computerized method of claim 7, further comprising: causing presentation of a sketch suggestion associated with the visual search result; receiving an input indicating a transformation from the visual search query to the sketch suggestion; and generating the transformation by: interpreting the input as designating a location in the search space; generating an adversarial encoding by backpropagating a corresponding loss in the neural network; and generating an adversarial image from the adversarial encoding.
15. A visual search system comprising: one or more hardware processors and memory configured to provide computer program instructions to the one or more hardware processors; a visual search query encoder configured to use the one or more hardware processors to encode a visual search query into a first search encoding in a common search space using a neural network; a search component configured to use the one or more hardware processors to search for a visual search result, from a first plurality of indexed search encodings in the common search space, based on proximity to the first search encoding in the common search space; a means for identifying a sketch suggestion, from a second plurality of indexed search encodings in the common search space, based on proximity to the first search encoding in the common search space; and a visualization component configured to use the one or more hardware processors to cause presentation of the sketch suggestion in association with the visual search result.
16. The visual search system of claim 15, wherein the visual search result is one of a plurality of visual search results, wherein the means for identifying a sketch suggestion is configured to identify the sketch suggestion from a plurality of indexed sketches by: identifying a set of the visual search results in a first cluster; identifying, for each visual search result in the set, an associated sketch of the indexed sketches based on proximity to the visual search result in the common search space; and identifying the sketch suggestion as a nearest sketch of the associated sketches based on proximity to the visual search query in the common search space.
17. The visual search system of claim 15, wherein the visual search system is configured to accept incremental query modifications to the visual search query and generate corresponding updated visual search results.
18. The visual search system of claim 15, wherein the visualization component is configured to: cause presentation of a sketch suggestion associated with the visual search result; receive a selection of the sketch suggestion as a target sketch; and automatically transform the visual search query to the target sketch.
19. The visual search system of claim 15, further comprising an adversarial perturbation component configured to use the one or more hardware processors to: receive an input indicating a transformation from the visual search query to a sketch suggestion; and generate the transformation by: interpreting the input as designating a location in the common search space; generating an adversarial encoding by backpropagating a corresponding loss in the neural network; and generating an adversarial image from the adversarial encoding.
20. The visual search system of claim 19, wherein adversarial encoding is an RNN encoding, and wherein an RNN decoder associated with the neural network is configured to generate the adversarial image from the RNN encoding.
</claims>
</document>
