<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B17/17,H04B3/54,H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GERSZBERG IRWIN
HENRY, PAUL SHALA
BARZEGAR FARHAD
VANNUCCI, GIOVANNI
WOLNIANSKY, PETER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65897520
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR MITIGATING A FAULT THAT ADVERSELY AFFECTS ULTRA-WIDEBAND TRANSMISSIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, a system that facilitates transmitting a plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves that propagates along a surface of a first transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, wherein the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves conveys a plurality of communication signals, detecting an attenuation in the plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves that affects a propagation of the plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves along the first surface of the first transmission medium, and responsive to the detecting, redirecting at least a portion of the plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves to an interface of a second transmission medium. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: inducing, by a first waveguide system at a first transmission medium, a first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves that propagates along the first transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves conveying a first communication signal that is received by the first waveguide system, the first transmission medium comprising a first span, the first span being supported by a first supporting device and a second supporting device, the first waveguide system being coupled to the first span, and the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves propagating along the first span without traversing the first supporting device or the second supporting device; and redirecting, by the first waveguide system, at least a portion of the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves to a second transmission medium, the redirecting being responsive to a detection by the first waveguide system of an obstruction that affects a propagation of the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves along the first transmission medium.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising responsive to detecting a removal of the obstruction, redirecting, by the first waveguide system, the at least the portion of the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves to the first transmission medium.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the obstruction comprises a physical object disposed on a surface of the first transmission medium.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first communication signal operates in a first spectral segment, and wherein the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves operates in a second spectral segment that differs from the first spectral segment.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first communication signal conforms to a signaling protocol, and wherein the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves conveys the first communication signal without modifying the signaling protocol.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first communication signal comprises a modulated signal in a first spectral segment, and wherein the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves conveys the modulated signal in a second spectral segment that differs from the first spectral segment.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the first communication signal is directed to a communication device, wherein the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves is directed to a second waveguide system that converts the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves to a wireless signal directed to the communication device, and wherein the wireless signal conveys the modulated signal in the first spectral segment.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving, by the first waveguide system, a second plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves via the second transmission medium, wherein the second plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves conveys a second communication signal, and wherein the second plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves propagates along the second transmission medium.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the second plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves is generated by a second waveguide system.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first waveguide system and the second waveguide system are configured to use time division multiplexing to at least reduce signal interference between the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves and the second plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving, by the first waveguide system, the first communication signal from a base station.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the second transmission medium comprises a second span, wherein the second span is supported by a third supporting device and a fourth supporting device, wherein the first waveguide system is coupled to the second span, and wherein the at least the portion of the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves propagates along the second span without traversing the third supporting device or the fourth supporting device.
13. A system, comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: transmitting a first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves that propagates along a first transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves conveying a first communication signal, the first transmission medium comprising a first span, the first span being supported by a first supporting device and a second supporting device, the system being coupled to the first span, and the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves propagating along the first span without traversing the first supporting device or the second supporting device; and redirecting at least a portion of the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves to a second transmission medium to mitigate an attenuation of the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves that affects a propagation of the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves along the first transmission medium, the redirecting being responsive to a detection of the attenuation.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise redirecting the at least the portion of the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves to the first transmission medium responsive to detecting a change in the attenuation.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the second transmission medium comprises a second span, wherein the second span is supported by a third supporting device and a fourth supporting device, wherein the system is coupled to the second span, and wherein the at least the portion of the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves propagates along the second span without traversing the third supporting device or the fourth supporting device.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise generating a reference signal, wherein the transmitting includes transmitting the reference signal with the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves, and wherein the reference signal enables another system receiving the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves to mitigate phase distortion in the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the reference signal comprises a preamble of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves included in the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves, and wherein the preamble of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves enables the another system to obtain a synchronization signal therefrom.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise utilizing time division multiplexing to transmit the first plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves and to prevent signal interference with a second plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves that conveys a second communication signal.
19. A machine-readable medium comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: transmitting via a waveguide a plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves that propagates along a first transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, the plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves conveying a plurality of communication signals, the first transmission medium comprising a first span, the first span being supported by a first supporting device and a second supporting device, the waveguide being coupled to the first span, and the plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves propagating along the first span without traversing the first supporting device or the second supporting device; and redirecting at least a portion of the plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves to a second transmission medium, the redirecting being responsive to detection of an attenuation in the plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves that affects a propagation of the plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves along the first transmission medium.
20. The machine-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the second transmission medium comprises a second span, wherein the second span is supported by a third supporting device and a fourth supporting device, and wherein the at least the portion of the plurality of ultra-wideband electromagnetic waves propagates along the second span without traversing the third supporting device or the fourth supporting device.
</claims>
</document>
