<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/106,G06T11/60,G06T7/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJIFILM
</assignee>

<inventors>
TACHIKAWA, KIMIKO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606214
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE PROCESSING METHOD, PROGRAM, AND IMAGE PROCESSING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
An image processing method including an image analysis step of analyzing an acquired image and extracting an object from the image, a kanji string decision step of deciding a kanji string that includes one or more kanji characters related to the object, an alphabet character string decision step of deciding an alphabet character string related to a meaning of the kanji string, a layout decision step of deciding a layout in which the kanji string and the alphabet character string are composited with the image, and a composition step of generating a composite image by compositing the kanji string and the alphabet character string with the image based on the layout is performed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image processing method comprising: an image analysis step of analyzing an image and extracting an object from the image; a kanji string decision step of deciding a kanji string that includes one or more kanji characters related to the object; an alphabet character string decision step of deciding an alphabet character string related to a meaning of the kanji string; a layout decision step of deciding a layout in which the kanji string and the alphabet character string are composited with the image as a decided layout; and a composition step of generating a composite image by compositing the kanji string and the alphabet character string with the image based on the decided layout.
2. The image processing method according to claim 1, wherein in the layout decision step, a layout in which the alphabet character string is arranged in a region in which the kanji string is arranged is decided as the decided layout.
3. The image processing method according to claim 1, wherein in the layout decision step, a layout in which at least a part of the kanji string is arranged at a position overlapping the object is decided as the decided layout.
4. The image processing method according to claim 1, wherein in the layout decision step, a layout in which the kanji string is arranged in a foreground of the object is decided as the decided layout.
5. The image processing method according to claim 1, wherein in the layout decision step, a layout in which the object is arranged in a foreground of the kanji string is decided as the decided layout.
6. The image processing method according to claim 1, wherein in the layout decision step, a layout in which the object is seen through at least a part of the kanji string is decided as the decided layout.
7. The image processing method according to claim 1, wherein in the image analysis step, a color used in the object is extracted as a extracted color, and in the layout decision step, the extracted color is employed as a color of the kanji string.
8. The image processing method according to claim 1, wherein in the image analysis step, a plurality of the objects are extracted from the image, and in the layout decision step, a layout in which the kanji string is arranged in each of the plurality of objects is decided as the decided layout.
9. The image processing method according to claim 1, wherein in the layout decision step, a layout in which the kanji string is arranged in a direction corresponding to a direction of the object is decided as the decided layout.
10. The image processing method according to claim 1, wherein in the layout decision step, a layout in which one or more kanji characters included in the kanji string are arranged on an edge of the image is decided as the decided layout.
11. The image processing method according to claim 1, wherein in the kanji string decision step, the kanji string are decided from a plurality of kanji string candidates related to the object.
12. The image processing method according to claim 1, wherein in the alphabet character string decision step, the alphabet character string is decided from a plurality of alphabet character string candidates related to the meaning of the kanji string.
13. The image processing method according to claim 1, further comprising: a kanji string correction step of correcting the kanji string to another kanji string related to the object.
14. The image processing method according to claim 1, further comprising: an alphabet character string correction step of correcting the alphabet character string to another alphabet character string related to the meaning of the kanji string.
15. The image processing method according to claim 1, further comprising: a printing step of printing the composite image using a printer.
16. A non-transitory, computer-readable recording medium which records a program causing a computer to implement: an image analysis function of analyzing an acquired image and extracting an object from the image; a kanji string decision function of deciding a kanji string that includes one or more kanji characters related to the object; an alphabet character string decision function of deciding an alphabet character string related to a meaning of the kanji string; a layout decision function of deciding a layout in which the kanji string and the alphabet character string are composited with the image; and a composition function of generating a composite image by compositing the kanji string and the alphabet character string with the image based on the layout.
17. An image processing system including at least one processor, wherein the at least one processor is configured to: analyze an acquired image and extracts an object from the image; decide a kanji string which includes one or more kanji characters related to the object; decide an alphabet character string related to a meaning of the kanji string; decide a layout in which the kanji string and the alphabet character string are composited with the image; and generate a composite image by compositing the kanji string and the alphabet character string with the image based on the layout.
18. The image processing system according to claim 17, wherein the at least one processor is configured to cause a printer to print the composite image.
19. The image processing system according to claim 17, further comprising a printer that is connected through a network, wherein the printer is configured to print the composite image.
20. The image processing system according to claim 19, wherein the printer includes the at least one processor and is configured to print the composite image based on the image.
21. The image processing system according to claim 17, further comprising a server apparatus that is connected through a network, wherein the server apparatus includes the at least one processor.
</claims>
</document>
