<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COMMVAULT SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LITTLEFIELD, DUNCAN ALDEN
KARTHIKEYAN, SOWDAMBIGA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046375
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYNTHESIZING FORMAT-SPECIFIC FULL BACKUP IMAGES
</title>

<abstract>
Certain embodiments described herein relate to an improved synthetic full backup image generation system. In some embodiments, one or more components in an information management system can identify a file-server-created backup copy in a particular backup format of a plurality of backup formats, determine structure information associated with the particular backup format, and generate a synthetic full backup copy according to the structure information, where the synthetic full backup copy is also in the particular backup format identical to that of the file-server-created backup copy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of generating format-specific full backup copies of primary data, the method comprising: identifying a first full backup copy of primary data in a primary storage subsystem, wherein the first full backup is in a first backup format and stored in a secondary storage subsystem different from the primary storage subsystem; identifying one or more incremental backup copies associated with the first full backup copy, wherein the one or more incremental backup copies are in the first backup format; determining first structure information associated with the first backup format of the first full backup copy and the one or more incremental backup copies, wherein the first structure information is different from second structure information associated with at least one other backup format used by another backup copy stored in the secondary storage subsystem; generating, based at least on the first structure information, a second full backup copy that is in the first backup format and reflects a state of the primary data in the primary storage subsystem at a time when a most recent one of the one or more incremental backup copies was created; and storing the second full backup copy in the secondary storage subsystem.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a request to restore the second full backup copy from the secondary storage subsystem onto the primary storage subsystem; and transmitting the second full backup copy to the primary storage subsystem.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising removing the first full backup copy and the one or more incremental backup copies from the secondary storage subsystem.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first structure information indicates an order in which file data corresponding to a plurality of files in the primary data is to be arranged in the second full backup copy.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the order is a depth-first order based on a plurality of directories containing the plurality of files in the primary data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first structure information indicates that the second full backup copy is to include a bit flag for each inode in a plurality of inodes in the primary data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first structure information indicates that a list of directories in the primary data is to precede, in the second full backup copy, file data corresponding to a plurality of files in the directories.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first structure information indicates that a list of access control lists (ACLs) associated with a plurality of files in the primary data is to precede, in the second full backup copy, file data corresponding to the plurality of files.
9. A networked information management system configured to generate format-specific full backup copies of primary data, the networked information management system comprising: one or more primary storage devices configured to store primary data; one or more secondary storage devices configured to store secondary copies of the primary data; and a secondary storage computing device comprising physical hardware and configured to: identify a first full backup copy of the primary data stored in the one or more primary storage devices, wherein the first full backup is in a first backup format and stored in the one or more secondary storage devices; identify one or more incremental backup copies associated with the first full backup copy, wherein the one or more incremental backup copies are in the first backup format and stored in the one or more secondary storage devices; determine first structure information associated with the first backup format of the first full backup copy and the one or more incremental backup copies, wherein the first structure information is different from second structure information associated with at least one other backup format used by another backup copy stored in the one or more secondary storage devices; generate, based at least on the first structure information, a second full backup copy that is in the first backup format and reflects a state of the primary data in the one or more primary storage devices at a time when a most recent one of the one or more incremental backup copies was created; and cause the second full backup copy to be stored in the one or more secondary storage devices.
10. The networked information management system of claim 9, wherein the one or more primary storage devices comprise file servers configured to store a plurality of files in a plurality of directories.
11. The networked information management system of claim 9, wherein the first structure information indicates an order in which file data corresponding to a plurality of files in the primary data is to be arranged in the second full backup copy.
12. The networked information management system of claim 11, wherein the order is a depth-first order based on a plurality of directories containing the plurality of files in the primary data.
13. The networked information management system of claim 9, wherein the first structure information indicates that the second full backup copy is to include a bit flag for each inode in a plurality of inodes in the primary data.
14. The networked information management system of claim 9, wherein the first structure information indicates that a list of directories in the primary data is to precede, in the second full backup copy, file data corresponding to a plurality of files in the directories.
15. The networked information management system of claim 9, wherein the first structure information indicates that a list of access control lists (ACLs) associated with a plurality of files in the primary data is to precede, in the second full backup copy, file data corresponding to the plurality of files.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, that, when executed by at least one computing device comprising one or more processors and computer memory, cause the at least one computing device to perform operations comprising: identifying a first full backup copy of primary data stored in one or more primary storage devices, wherein the first full backup is in a first backup format and stored in one or more secondary storage devices different from the one or more primary storage devices; identifying one or more incremental backup copies associated with the first full backup copy, wherein the one or more incremental backup copies are in the first backup format and stored in the one or more secondary storage devices; determining first structure information associated with the first backup format of the first full backup copy and the one or more incremental backup copies, wherein the first structure information is different from second structure information associated with at least one other backup format used by another backup copy stored in the one or more secondary storage devices; generating, based at least on the first structure information, a second full backup copy that is in the first backup format and reflects a state of the primary data in the one or more primary storage devices at a time when a most recent one of the one or more incremental backup copies was created; and causing the second full backup copy to be stored in the one or more secondary storage devices.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the first structure information indicates an order in which file data corresponding to a plurality of files in the primary data is to be arranged in the second full backup copy.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the order is a depth-first order based on a plurality of directories containing the plurality of files in the primary data.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the first structure information indicates that a list of directories in the primary data is to precede, in the second full backup copy, file data corresponding to a plurality of files in the directories.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the first structure information indicates that a list of access control lists (ACLs) associated with a plurality of files in the primary data is to precede, in the second full backup copy, file data corresponding to the plurality of files.
</claims>
</document>
