<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/12,H04W40/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COMCAST CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
STEPHENS, BILLY
SIDDALINGA, PRASAD RAMANAHALLY
SHARMA, SANJAY KUMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74038118
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS, METHODS, AND APPARATUSES FOR DEVICE ROUTING MANAGEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatuses for device routing management are disclosed. A client device of a wireless network may roam from a first access point to a second access point of the wireless network. The second access point, or the client device itself, may send a network message indicating the client device is currently being served by the second access point. The message may cause a network mapping stored at the first access point and/or at each device associated with the wireless network to be updated to indicate the client device is associated with the second access point, thereby enabling proper routing of network traffic to the client device via the second access point.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining, by a first device of a plurality of devices, that a portion of network traffic at the first device comprises voice call data received from a user device via WiFi; determining that the user device is no longer in communication with the first device; and sending, via the first device, based on: the user device no longer being in communication with the first device, and the portion of network traffic being voice call data, an address resolution protocol (ARP) message to each device of the plurality of devices, wherein the ARP message comprises a network mapping between an identifier of the user device and an identifier of a second device of the plurality of devices, and wherein the ARP message causes each device of the plurality of devices to update an ARP table entry to indicate the user device has associated with the second device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining that the portion of network traffic at the first device comprises voice call data received from the user device via WiFi comprises: determining, based on one or more of: a size of a packet associated with the portion of network traffic, a protocol type associated with the portion of network traffic, a frequency of receipt of packets associated with the protocol type, or a destination of a packet associated with the portion of network traffic, that the portion of network traffic comprises voice call data received from the user device via WiFi.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifier of the second device comprises a media access controller (MAC) address.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifier of the user device comprises an internet protocol (IP) address.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein a third device of the plurality of devices is a gateway device.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the ARP table entry comprises a time-to-live element indicative of a defined period of time that is based on the portion of network traffic being voice call data, and wherein the time-to-live element causes the third device to update the ARP table entry once the defined period of time elapses.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving, by the third device, downstream network traffic addressed to the identifier of the user device; and sending, via the third device, based on the identifier of the second device, the downstream network traffic to the second device.
8. A method comprising: receiving, from a first device of a plurality of devices, an indication that a portion of network traffic at the first device comprises voice call data received from a user device via WiFi; associating, by a second device of the plurality of devices, with the user device; and sending, via the second device, based on: the indication that the portion of network traffic at the first device comprises voice call data received from the user device via WiFi, and the user device having associated with the second device, an address resolution protocol (ARP) message to each device of the plurality of devices, wherein the ARP message comprises a network mapping between an identifier of the user device and an identifier of the second device, and wherein the ARP message causes each device of the plurality of devices to update an entry of an ARP table to indicate the user device has associated with the second device.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: determining, by the first device, that the portion of network traffic comprises voice call data received from the user device via WiFi; and determining, by the first device, based on one or more of: a size of a packet associated with the portion of network traffic, a protocol type associated with the portion of network traffic, a frequency of receipt of packets associated with the protocol type, or a destination of a packet associated with the portion of network traffic, that the portion of network traffic comprises voice call data received from the user device via WiFi.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the identifier of the second device comprises a media access controller (MAC) address.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the identifier of the user device comprises an internet protocol (IP) address.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein a third device of the plurality of devices is a gateway device.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the entry of the ARP table comprises a time-to-live element indicative of a defined period of time that is based on the portion of network traffic being voice call data, wherein the time-to-live element causes the third device to update the ARP table once the defined period of time elapses.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising: receiving, by the third device, downstream network traffic addressed to the identifier of the user device; and sending, via the third device, based on the identifier of the second device, the downstream network traffic to the second device.
15. A method comprising: determining, by a user device, that a portion of network traffic at the user device comprises voice call data sent or received via WiFi; associating, by the user device, with a first device of a plurality of devices; and sending, via the user device to the first device, based on: the user device having associated with the first device, and the portion of network traffic at the user device comprising voice call data sent or received via WiFi, an address resolution protocol (ARP) message comprising a network mapping between an identifier of the user device and an identifier of the first device, wherein the first device causes each device of the plurality of devices, based on the ARP message, to update an ARP table entry to indicate the user device has associated with the first device.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: sending, via the first device, the ARP message to each device of the plurality of devices.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein determining that the portion of network traffic at the user device comprises voice call data sent or received via WiFi comprises: determining, by the user device, based on one or more of: a size of a packet associated with the portion of network traffic, a protocol type associated with the portion of network traffic, a frequency of receipt of packets associated with the protocol type, or a destination of a packet associated with the portion of network traffic, that the portion of network traffic at the user device comprises voice call data sent or received via WiFi.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the identifier of the user device comprises one or more of a media access controller (MAC) address or an internet protocol (IP) address.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein a second device of the plurality of devices is a gateway device.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: receiving, by the second device, downstream network traffic addressed to the identifier of the user device; and sending, via the second device, based the identifier of the first device, the downstream network traffic to the first device.
</claims>
</document>
