<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
Gupta, Anuj
Balasubramaniyan, Senthilkumaran
Telukapalli, Vijay Chandra Srinivas
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73918889
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COGNITIVE ROBOTIC PROCESS AUTOMATION
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method includes automatically generating, using machine learning, a data structure that stores a knowledge graph for a decision making process that is to be automated. The knowledge graph includes one or more entities, one or more states of each of the entities, and transitions for each of the states. The method further includes creating, from the knowledge graph, a decision tree that represents conditions for one or more parameters that cause the entities to transition from one state to another. The method further includes automatically generating a conversation flow and performing a machine-human conversation with a user to obtain values of the parameters using dialogs from the conversation flow to converse with the user. The method further includes executing the process automatically by traversing the decision tree using the values of the parameters. The method further includes notifying the user of a result of executing the process.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: automatically generating, using machine learning, a data structure that stores a knowledge graph for a decision making process that is to be automated, the knowledge graph comprises one or more entities, one or more states of each of the entities, and transitions for each of the states, wherein the knowledge graph is generated automatically based on execution logs of the decision making process; creating, from the knowledge graph, a decision tree that represents conditions for one or more parameters that cause the entities in the knowledge graph to transition from a first state to a second state; automatically generating a conversation flow to obtain values for the one or more parameters; performing, via a graphical user interface, a machine-human conversation with a user to obtain the values of the one or more parameters, the machine-human conversation comprising one or more dialogs from the conversation flow to converse with the user; executing the process automatically by traversing the decision tree using the values of the one or more parameters; and notifying the user of a result of executing the process.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising, assigning a weightage to the one or more parameters.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters comprise internal parameters that are derived from the execution logs.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters comprise external parameters that are derived from one or more data sources that are external to the execution logs.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the one or more data sources include a policy document governing the decision making process.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising, monitoring the one or more data sources, and in response to a change in the policy document, updating the knowledge graph.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising, parsing, from the execution logs a static workflow of the decision making process.
8. A system comprising: a memory; and a processor coupled to the memory, the processor configured to perform a method for automating a decision making process, the method comprising: automatically generating, using machine learning, a data structure that stores a knowledge graph for the decision making process that is to be automated, the knowledge graph comprises one or more entities, one or more states of each of the entities, and transitions for each of the states, wherein the knowledge graph is generated automatically based on execution logs of the decision making process; creating, from the knowledge graph, a decision tree that represents conditions for one or more parameters that cause the entities in the knowledge graph to transition from a first state to a second state; automatically generating a conversation flow to obtain values for the one or more parameters; performing, via a graphical user interface, a machine-human conversation with a user to obtain the values of the one or more parameters, the machine-human conversation comprising one or more dialogs from the conversation flow to converse with the user; executing the process automatically by traversing the decision tree using the values of the one or more parameters; and notifying the user of a result of executing the process.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the method further comprises assigning a weightage to the one or more parameters.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more parameters comprise internal parameters that are derived from the execution logs.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more parameters comprise external parameters that are derived from one or more data sources that are external to the execution logs.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more data sources include a policy document governing the decision making process.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the method further comprises, monitoring the one or more data sources, and in response to a change in the policy document, updating the knowledge graph.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the method further comprises, parsing, from the execution logs a static workflow of the decision making process.
15. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processing circuit to cause the processing circuit to perform a method for automating a decision making process, the method comprising: automatically generating, using machine learning, a data structure that stores a knowledge graph for a decision making process that is to be automated, the knowledge graph comprises one or more entities, one or more states of each of the entities, and transitions for each of the states, wherein the knowledge graph is generated automatically based on execution logs of the decision making process; creating, from the knowledge graph, a decision tree that represents conditions for one or more parameters that cause the entities in the knowledge graph to transition from a first state to a second state; automatically generating a conversation flow to obtain values for the one or more parameters; performing, via a graphical user interface, a machine-human conversation with a user to obtain the values of the one or more parameters, the machine-human conversation comprising one or more dialogs from the conversation flow to converse with the user; executing the process automatically by traversing the decision tree using the values of the one or more parameters; and notifying the user of a result of executing the process.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, further comprising, assigning a weightage to the one or more parameters.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the one or more parameters comprise internal parameters that are derived from the execution logs.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the one or more parameters comprise external parameters that are derived from one or more data sources that are external to the execution logs.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the one or more data sources include a policy document governing the decision making process.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the method further comprises, parsing, from the execution logs a static workflow of the decision making process.
</claims>
</document>
