<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/041,G06F3/0485,G06F3/0488
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHIN, SOYOUNG
HAN, SANGJIN
YUK, HYUNSOO
JUNG, SOYOUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72142876
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISPLAY APPARATUS AND CONTROLLING METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
A display apparatus is provided. The display apparatus includes a touch display and a processor configured to display a plurality of menu items on the touch display, based on receiving a touch input to one item among the plurality of menu items, identify a touch area on the touch display corresponding to the touch input, identify an information depth based on the identified touch area, and perform control to display content corresponding to the one item in a layout corresponding to the identified information depth.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A display apparatus comprising: a touch display; and a processor configured to: display a plurality of menu items on the touch display, based on receiving a touch input to one item among the plurality of menu items, identify a touch area on the touch display corresponding to the touch input, identify an information depth based on the identified touch area, and perform control to display content corresponding to the one item in a layout corresponding to the identified information depth.
2. The display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: based on the touch area being less than a threshold value, perform control to display content corresponding to the one item in a first layout corresponding to a first depth, and, based on the touch area being greater than or equal to the threshold value, perform control to display content corresponding to the one item in a second layout corresponding to a second depth, wherein a number of the content displayed in the second layout is different from a number of the content displayed in the first layout.
3. The display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the touch display to display a guide user interface (UI) for guiding provision of content in a different layout according to a touch area for an area in which the plurality of menu items are displayed.
4. The display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: based on the one item being a calendar item, in response to the touch area being less than a first threshold value, perform control to display a daily content in a first layout corresponding to a first depth, in response to the touch area being greater than or equal to the first threshold value and less than a second threshold value, perform control to display a weekly content in a second layout corresponding to a second depth, and, in response to the touch area being greater than or equal to the second threshold value, perform control to display a monthly content in a third layout corresponding to a third depth.
5. The display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: based on the one item being a content list item, in response to the touch area being less than a first threshold value, perform control to display a text list for a plurality of contents in a first layout corresponding to a first depth, in response to the touch area being greater than or equal to the first threshold value and less than a second threshold value, perform control to display a thumbnail and title information of the plurality of contents, and, in response to the touch area being greater than or equal to the second threshold value, perform control to display an image of the plurality of contents in a third layout corresponding to a third depth.
6. The display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: based on the one item being a content list item, in response to the touch area being less than a first threshold value, perform control to display a content file list in a first layout corresponding to a first depth, in response to the touch area being greater than or equal to the first threshold value and less than a second threshold value, perform control to display a lower folder list in the second layout corresponding to a second depth, and, in response to the touch area being greater than or equal to the second threshold value, perform control to display an upper folder list in a third layout corresponding to a third depth.
7. The display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to perform control to display a fewer number of content as a size of the touch area increases.
8. The display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the touch input is a first touch input, and the processor is configured to: display a user interface to change a layout that corresponds to the identified information depth, and based on receiving a second touch input on the user interface, identify a touch area that corresponds to the second touch input and change the layout based on a touch area that corresponds to the second touch input.
9. The display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: based on a touch shape that corresponds to the touch input being a palm shape, identify a user's body size based on the identified touch area, identify a position on a display on which the content is to be displayed based on the identified body size, and perform control to display the content in a layout corresponding to the identified information depth on the identified position on the display.
10. The display apparatus of claim 1, wherein a touch input is a first touch input, and the processor is configured to: based on receiving a second touch input, identify left and right hand information corresponding to the second touch input and a touch area corresponding to the second touch, identify a scroll direction based on the identified left and right hand information, identify a scroll speed based on a touch area corresponding to the second touch input, and change a screen displayed based on the identified scroll direction and scroll speed.
11. A method comprising: displaying a plurality of menu items on a touch display; based on receiving a touch input to one item among the plurality of menu items, identifying a touch area corresponding to the touch input; identifying an information depth based on the identified touch area; and displaying content corresponding to the one item in a layout corresponding to the identified information depth.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the displaying the content comprises: based on the touch area being less than a threshold value, displaying content corresponding to the one item in a first layout corresponding to a first depth, and, based on the touch area being greater than or equal to the threshold value, displaying content corresponding to the one item in a second layout corresponding to a second depth, wherein a number of the content displayed in the second layout is different from a number of the content displayed in the first layout.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: displaying a guide user interface (UI) for guiding provision of content in a different layout according to a touch area for an area in which the plurality of menu items are displayed.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the displaying the content comprises: based on the one item being a calendar item, in response to the touch area being less than a first threshold value, displaying a daily content in a first layout corresponding to a first depth, in response to the touch area being greater than or equal to the first threshold value and less than a second threshold value, displaying a weekly content in a second layout corresponding to a second depth, and, in response to the touch area being greater than or equal to the second threshold value, displaying a monthly content in a third layout corresponding to a third depth.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the displaying the content comprises: based on the one item being a content list item, in response to the touch area being less than a first threshold value, displaying a text list for a plurality of contents in a first layout corresponding to a first depth, in response to the touch area being greater than or equal to the first threshold value and less than a second threshold value, displaying a thumbnail and title information of the plurality of contents, and in response to the touch area being greater than or equal to the second threshold value, displaying an image of the plurality of contents in a third layout corresponding to a third depth.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the displaying the content comprises: based on the one item being a content list item, in response to the touch area being less than a first threshold value, displaying a content file list in a first layout corresponding to a first depth, in response to the touch area being greater than or equal to the first threshold value and less than a second threshold value, displaying a lower folder list in the second layout corresponding to a second depth, and in response to the touch area being greater than or equal to the second threshold value, displaying an upper folder list in a third layout corresponding to a third depth.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the displaying the content comprises displaying a fewer number of content as a size of the touch area increases.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein the touch input is a first touch input, and the displaying the content comprises: displaying a user interface to change a layout that corresponds to the identified information depth, and based on receiving a second touch input on the user interface, identifying a touch area that corresponds to the second touch input and changing the layout based on a touch area that corresponds to the second touch input.
19. The method of claim 11, further comprising: based on a touch shape that corresponds to the touch input being a palm shape, identifying a user's body size based on the identified touch area, identifying a position on a display on which the content is to be displayed based on the identified body size, and displaying the content in a layout corresponding to the identified information depth on the identified position on the display.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein a touch input is a first touch input, and the method further comprises: based on receiving a second touch input, identifying left and right hand information corresponding to the second touch input and a touch area corresponding to the second touch, identifying a scroll direction based on the identified left and right hand information, identifying a scroll speed based on a touch area corresponding to the second touch input, and changing a screen displayed based on the identified scroll direction and scroll speed.
</claims>
</document>
