<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04W12/00,H04W12/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZAFFINO RICHARD
CHIEN, GINGER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72236287
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multi-Factor Autonomous SIM Lock
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, initializing a secure timer in a wireless device, determining whether a subscriber identification module (SIM) card installed in the wireless device comprises a carrier identity that matches a carrier identity stored in the machine-readable medium, establishing a network connection with a trusted server, starting the secure timer if the SIM card and network connection are satisfactory, periodically checking the network connection and SIM card until expiry of the secure timer, penalizing the secure timer responsive to a failure of the network connection or SIM card check, and responsive to expiry of the secure timer, unlocking a SIM lock. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A wireless device, comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: initializing a secure timer; determining that a valid subscriber identification module (SIM) card is installed in the wireless device, resulting in a first determination; determining that a network connection has been established between the wireless device and a trusted server, resulting in a second determination; starting the secure timer if both the first determination and the second determination are true; penalizing the secure timer if the first determination or the second determination are false; repeating the first determination, the second determination, and the penalizing steps until expiry of the secure timer; and responsive to expiry of the secure timer, unlocking a SIM lock.
2. The wireless device of claim 1, wherein the penalizing the secure timer comprises pausing the secure timer.
3. The wireless device of claim 1, wherein the penalizing the secure timer comprises resetting the secure timer to an earlier elapsed time setting where the first determination and the second determination passed.
4. The wireless device of claim 1, wherein the penalizing the secure timer comprises initializing the secure timer.
5. The wireless device of claim 1, wherein the repeating step further comprises retrieving a time stamp from the trusted server and comparing the time stamp to elapsed time on the secure timer, resulting in a third determination being true if the time stamp is sufficiently the same as the elapsed time, and wherein the operations further comprise penalizing the secure timer responsive to the third determination being false.
6. The wireless device of claim 5, wherein the repeating step further comprises retrieving a second time stamp from a global positioning system (GPS) receiver and comparing the second time stamp to the elapsed time on the secure timer, resulting in a fourth determination being true if the second time stamp is the same as the elapsed time, and wherein the operations further comprise penalizing the secure timer responsive to the fourth determination being false.
7. The wireless device of claim 6, wherein the repeating step further comprises retrieving a location of the wireless device from a GPS receiver and comparing the location to a predetermined range, resulting in a fifth determination being true if the location is within the predetermined range, and the operations further comprise penalizing the secure timer responsive to the fifth determination being false.
8. The wireless device of claim 7, wherein the repeating step further comprises retrieving a second location from a Bluetooth location beacon and comparing the second location to a permitted geographic region, resulting in a sixth determination being true if the second location is within the permitted geographic range, and wherein the operations further comprise penalizing the secure timer responsive to the sixth determination being false.
9. The wireless device of claim 8, wherein the repeating step further comprises retrieving biometric data and comparing the biometric data with previously stored biometric data, resulting in a seventh determination being true if the biometric data is the same as the previously stored biometric data, and wherein the operations further comprise penalizing the secure timer responsive to the seventh determination being false.
10. The wireless device of claim 9, wherein the biometric data comprises a fingerprint.
11. The wireless device of claim 1, wherein the memory is a secure memory, and wherein values for the secure timer are stored in the secure memory.
12. The wireless device of claim 11, wherein the secure memory is located in a modem of the wireless device.
13. The wireless device of claim 11, wherein a valid SIM card comprises a carrier identity that matches a carrier identity stored in the secure memory.
14. The wireless device of claim 1, wherein unlocking the SIM lock permits the wireless device to provide full service with any installed SIM card.
15. A machine-readable medium in a secure area of a wireless device, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: initializing a secure timer; determining whether a subscriber identification module (SIM) card installed in the wireless device comprises a carrier identity that matches a carrier identity stored in the machine-readable medium, resulting in a first determination; determining whether a network connection has been established between the wireless device and a trusted server, resulting in a second determination; starting the secure timer responsive to the first determination and the second determination; penalizing the secure timer if either the first determination or the second determination are false; repeating the first determination, the second determination, and the penalizing steps until expiry of the secure timer; and responsive to expiry of the secure timer, unlocking a SIM lock embedded in the machine-readable medium.
16. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise retrieving a time stamp from the trusted server and comparing the time stamp to elapsed time on the secure timer, resulting in a third determination being true if the time stamp is the same as the elapsed time, and wherein the operations further comprise penalizing the secure timer responsive to the third determination being false.
17. The machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise retrieving a second time stamp from a global positioning system (GPS) receiver and comparing the second time stamp to the elapsed time on the secure timer, resulting in a fourth determination being true if the second time stamp is the same as the elapsed time, and the operations further comprise penalizing the secure timer responsive to the fourth determination being false.
18. A method, comprising: initializing, by a processing system including a processor, a secure timer; determining, by the processing system, whether a subscriber identification module (SIM) card installed in a wireless device comprises a carrier identity that matches a carrier identity, resulting in a first determination; determining, by the processing system, whether a network connection has been established between the wireless device and a trusted server, resulting in a second determination; starting, by the processing system, the secure timer responsive to the first determination and the second determination; penalizing the secure timer responsive to either the first determination or the second determination being false; repeating the first determination, the second determination and the penalizing steps, by the processing system, until expiry of the secure timer; and responsive to expiry of the secure timer, unlocking, by the processing system, a SIM lock.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the repeating further comprises: retrieving a location, by the processing system, from a Bluetooth location beacon; and penalizing, by the processing system, the secure timer responsive to the location being outside of a permitted geographic region.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the repeating further comprises: retrieving, by the processing system, biometric data; and penalizing, by the processing system, the secure timer responsive to the biometric data not matching previously stored biometric data.
</claims>
</document>
