<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/60,G16H20/10,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
YANOVER, CHEN
Spiro, Adam
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017011
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ADJUSTING MEDICAL TREATMENT TO REDUCE LIKELIHOOD OF PRESCRIPTION CASCADE
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a method for generating instructions for adjusting a medical treatment of a patient, comprising: detecting an indication of a new symptom appearing in a patient being treated with medications for medical condition(s), computing a value indicative of risk of the new symptom being an adverse drug reaction (ADR) of one or a combination of the medications, detecting an indication of another new medication for treating the patient, computing likelihood of PC when the new medication is for treating the new symptom and the value is according to a requirement, generating a request for substitute medication(s) for the one or combination of medications when likelihood of PC is detected, and generating instructions for adjusting treatment of the patient by substituting the one or combination of medications with the substitute medication(s), and for terminating administration of the new medication or avoiding administration of the new medication.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method for generating instructions for adjusting a medical treatment of a patient for reducing likelihood of a prescription cascade (PC), comprising: detecting an indication of a new symptom appearing in a patient being treated with a plurality of medications for at least one medical condition; computing a value indicative of risk of the new symptom being an adverse drug reaction (ADR) of one or a combination of the plurality of medications; detecting an indication of another new medication for treating the patient; computing likelihood of PC when the new medication is for treating the new symptom and the value is according to a requirement; generating a request for at least one substitute medication for the one or combination of the plurality of medications when likelihood of PC is detected; and generating instructions for adjusting treatment of the patient by substituting the one or combination of the plurality of medications with the at least one substitute medication, and for terminating administration of the new medication or avoiding administration of the new medication.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising, in response to the request, automatically selecting at least one substitute medication according to a computed risk of developing the new symptom in response to treatment with the at least one substitute medication not being according to the requirement.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the indication of the new symptom is detected by an analysis of an electronic health record (EHR) of the patient for determining when a new symptom temporally appears after administration of the one or combination of medications.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the requirement comprises the value indicative of risk of the new symptom being ADR in comparison to a computed value indicative of likelihood of risk of the new symptom appearing when the one or combination of the plurality of medications are not administered.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein likelihood of PC is generated when the value indicative of risk of the new symptom being the ADR of one or the combination of the plurality of medications is statistically significantly greater than the computed value indicative of likelihood of risk of the new symptom appearing when the one or combination of the plurality of medications are not administered.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the patient is associated with a plurality of medical parameters, and the value indicative of risk is computed based on data of a population of a plurality of sample individuals correlated with the plurality of medical parameters.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the plurality of medical parameters are selected from the group consisting of: historical and existing patient medical conditions, patient demographics, and age of onset of the medical conditions.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the indication of the new medication is detected when the new medication comprises an existing medication currently being administered to the patient starting temporally after appearance of the new symptom.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the indication of the new medication is detected when the new medication is instructed for future administration.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein values indicative of risk that do not meet the requirement are indicative of at least one of: a new medical condition, or progression of an existing medical condition.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the value indicative of risk of the new symptom being an ADR is computed according to data extracted from a structured dataset storing mappings between medications, symptoms, and medical conditions.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: creating the structured dataset from data extracted from a plurality of datasets, by computing at least one member of the group consisting of: (i) a probability of a certain symptom to appear following treatment with one or a combination of certain medications, (ii) a probability that a certain symptom appears when one or a combination of certain medications are not being administered, (iii) one or a combination of certain drugs having documented evidence for treatment of a certain symptom, (iv) at least one symptom associated with a certain medical condition, (v) one or a combination of certain drugs having documented evidence for treatment of a certain medical condition.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising, in response to the request, automatically analyzing the structured dataset for selecting at least one substitute medication according to a computed risk of developing the new symptom in response to treatment with at least one substitute medication not being according to the requirement.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the plurality of datasets include unstructured data including research publications and case reports.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the new symptom is defined according to a coding standard of symptoms.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a recommendation for an electronic based prescription for the patient based on the generated instructions, wherein the one or combination of the plurality of medications are substituted with at least one substitute medication and wherein the recommendation includes instructions to at least one of terminate and avoid administration of the new medication.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein a number of the plurality of medication is at least 5.
18. A system for generating instructions for adjusting a medical treatment of a patient for reducing likelihood of a prescription cascade (PC), comprising: at least one hardware processor executing a code for: detecting an indication of a new symptom appearing in a patient being treated with a plurality of medications for at least one medical condition; computing a value indicative of risk of the new symptom being an adverse drug reaction (ADR) of one or a combination of the plurality of medications; detecting an indication of another new medication for treating the patient; computing likelihood of PC when the new medication is for treating the new symptom and the value is according to a requirement; generating a request for at least one substitute medication for the one or combination of the plurality of medications when likelihood of PC is detected; and generating instructions for adjusting treatment of the patient by substituting the one or combination of the plurality of medications with the at least one substitute medication, and for terminating administration of the new medication or avoiding administration of the new medication.
19. A computer program product for generating instructions for adjusting a medical treatment of a patient for reducing likelihood of a prescription cascade (PC), comprising: a non-transitory memory storing thereon code for execution by at least one hardware process, the code including instructions for: detecting an indication of a new symptom appearing in a patient being treated with a plurality of medications for at least one medical condition; computing a value indicative of risk of the new symptom being an adverse drug reaction (ADR) of one or a combination of the plurality of medications; detecting an indication of another new medication for treating the patient; computing likelihood of PC when the new medication is for treating the new symptom and the value is according to a requirement; generating a request for at least one substitute medication for the one or combination of the plurality of medications when likelihood of PC is detected; and generating instructions for adjusting treatment of the patient by substituting the one or combination of the plurality of medications with the at least one substitute medication, and for terminating administration of the another medication or avoiding administration of new medication.
</claims>
</document>
