<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/51,G06F16/55,G06F16/583,G06K9/00,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OHBAYASHI CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KANEKO, TOMOYA
SUZUKI, MASASHI
NAKABAYASHI, Takuma
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74190262
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM, METHOD, AND COMPUTER-READABLE MEDIUM FOR MANAGING IMAGE
</title>

<abstract>
A system for managing images obtains an image that is captured by an image capture device at an image capture position and an image capture time; and stores the image, the image capture position, and the image capture time. The system further determines a position of a subject included in the image based on the image capture position. The system further stores index information comprising a target identifier of the subject, the position of the subject, and the image capture time in association with the stored image. The system further determines index information corresponding to the search instruction when obtaining a search instruction of the image; and extracts the image corresponding to the determined index information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for managing images, the system comprising circuitry configured to: obtain an image that is captured by an image capture device at an image capture position and an image capture time; store the image, the image capture position, and the image capture time; determine a position of a subject included in the image based on the image capture position; store index information comprising a target identifier of the subject, the position of the subject, and the image capture time in association with the stored image; when obtaining a search instruction of the image, determine index information corresponding to the search instruction; and extract the image corresponding to the determined index information.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the images includes a first image captured at a first image capture time and a second image captured at a second image capture time that is after the first image capture time, and the circuitry is further configured to add new index information for the second image capture time if a subject included in the second image has changed from a subject included in the first image.
3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the index information comprises a state of the subject, the circuitry is further configured to: determine the state of the subject based on the image.
4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to: store building general information related to a building that is under construction; determine an image capture range based on the image capture position information of the image; predict a subject included in the image based on the image capture range and the building general information; and extract an image in which the predicted subject is different from the subject included in the image.
5. A method for managing images using a system including circuitry, the method comprising: storing, by the circuitry, an image captured by an image capture device; storing, by the circuitry, index information that is to be associated with the image; obtaining and storing, by the circuitry, the image, image capture position information of the image, and an image capture point in time of the image; determining, by the circuitry, a position of a subject included in the image using the image capture position information of the image; storing, by the circuitry, a target identifier of the subject, the position, and the image capture point in time in association with the stored image as the index information; when obtaining a search instruction of the image, determining, by the circuitry, the index information corresponding to the search instruction; and extracting, by the circuitry, the image corresponding to the determined index information.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the images includes a first image captured at a first image capture time and a second image captured at a second image capture time that is after the first image capture time, the method further comprising: adding, by the circuitry, new index information for the second image capture time if a subject included in the second image has changed from a subject included in the first image.
7. The method according to claim 5, wherein the index information comprises a state of the subject, the method further comprising: determining, by the circuitry, the state of the subject based on the image.
8. The method according to claim 5, the method further comprising: storing, by the circuitry, building general information related to a building that is under construction; determining, by the circuitry, an image capture range based on the image capture position information of the image; predicting, by the circuitry, a subject included in the image based on the image capture range and the building general information; and extracting, by the circuitry, an image in which the predicted subject is different from the subject included in the image.
9. A non-transitory computer-readable medium that stores instructions, wherein the instructions, when executed by a system comprising circuitry, causes the circuitry to: store an image captured by an image capture device; store index information that is to be associated with the image; obtain and store the image, image capture position information of the image, and an image capture point in time of the image; determine a position of a subject included in the image using the image capture position information of the image; store a target identifier of the subject, the position, and the image capture point in time in association with the stored image as the index information; when obtaining a search instruction of the image, determine the index information corresponding to the search instruction; and extract the image corresponding to the determined index information.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 9, wherein the images includes a first image captured at a first image capture time and a second image captured at a second image capture time that is after the first image capture time, and the instructions further cause the circuitry to: add new index information for the second image capture time if a subject included in the second image has changed from a subject included in the first image.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 9, wherein the index information comprises a state of the subject, and the instructions further cause the circuitry to: determine the state of the subject based on the image.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 9, wherein the instructions further cause the circuitry to: store building general information related to a building that is under construction; determine an image capture range based on the image capture position information of the image; predict a subject included in the image based on the image capture range and the building general information; and extract an image in which the predicted subject is different from the subject included in the image.
</claims>
</document>
