<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/00,A61B6/02,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06T11/00,G06T7/33
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
IORDACHE, RAZVAN
PALMA, GIOVANNI JOHN JACQUES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63524223
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DEEP LEARNING-BASED IMAGE RECONSTRUCTION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for deep learning based image reconstruction are disclosed herein. An example method includes receiving a set of imaging projections data, identifying a voxel to reconstruct, receiving a trained regression model, and reconstructing the voxel. The voxel is reconstructed by: projecting the voxel on each imaging projection in the set of imaging projections according to an acquisition geometry, extracting adjacent pixels around each projected voxel, feeding the regression model with the extracted adjacent pixel data to produce a reconstructed value of the voxel, and repeating the reconstruction for each voxel to be reconstructed to produce a reconstructed image.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claim is:
1. A system comprising: a regression model trainer to train a regression model; a pixel identifier to identify a pixel to be reconstructed; a volume receiver to receive a volume; and a pixel reconstructor including: a pixel mapper to map the pixel onto voxels from the volume according to an acquisition geometry; an adjacent voxel extractor to extract adjacent voxels around each mapped pixel; and a regression model feeder to feed the regression model with the extracted adjacent voxel data to produce a reconstructed value of the pixel.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the regression model trainer includes: a database including acquired projection data and a 2D mammogram acquired under the same compression, the regression model trained to output a 2D image approximately identical to the 2D mammogram when fed with the projections; or a database including simulated projection data and a simulated 2D mammogram acquired under the same compression from a digital anthropomorphic phantom, the regression model trained to output a 2D image approximately identical to the simulated 2D mammogram when fed with the simulated projections.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the regression model trainer includes: a Digital Anthropomorphic Phantom (DAP) Modeler including an acquisition simulator, an algorithm creator, and a DAP database; a Computed Tomography (CT) Modeler including an acquisition simulator, an algorithm creator, and a CT database; and an Algorithm Modifier including an acquisition reconstructor and an algorithm database.
4. The system of claim 1, further including a feedback generator to identify when a mistake has been made on the reconstructed image and, when the mistake is identified, to communicate to the regression model trainer to re-train the regression model.
5. The system of claim 1, further including a reconstructed value producer to produce a reconstructed value for each reconstructed pixel or voxel, the reconstructed values used to produce the reconstructed image volume.
6. The system of claim 1, further including a user interface, the user interface to display the reconstructed image pixels.
7. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions which, when executed, cause a machine to at least: receive a volume; identify a pixel to reconstruct; receive a trained regression model; and reconstruct the pixel by: mapping the pixel onto voxels from the volume according to an acquisition geometry; extracting adjacent voxels around each mapped pixel; feeding the regression model with the extracted adjacent voxel data to produce a reconstructed value of the pixel; and repeating the reconstruction for each pixel to be reconstructed.
8. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein the regression model is trained on at least one of: a database including acquired projection data and a 2D mammogram acquired under the same compression, the regression model trained to output a 2D image approximately identical to the 2D mammogram when fed with the projections; or a database including simulated projection data and a simulated 2D mammogram acquired under the same compression from a digital anthropomorphic phantom, the regression model trained to output a 2D image approximately identical to the simulated 2D mammogram when fed with the simulated projections.
9. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein the regression model is trained on at least one of: a database including digital anthropomorphic phantoms and simulated projection data obtained from the phantoms for a given acquisition geometry, the regression model trained to output a volume approximately identical to the anthropomorphic phantom when fed with the simulated projections; a database including computed tomography (CT) reconstructed data and simulated projections data obtained from the CT reconstruction data, the regression model trained to output a volume approximately identical to the CT reconstructed data when fed with the simulated projections; or a database including acquired projection data and reconstructed data from these projection data with a given reconstruction algorithm, the regression model trained to output a volume approximately identical to the reconstructed data when fed with the acquired projections
10. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 7, further including instructions which, when executed, cause a machine to identify a mistake within the reconstructed image and, when the mistake is identified, to communicate with the regression model trainer to re-train the regression model.
11. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 7, further including instructions which, when executed cause a machine to produce a reconstructed image onto a user interface using the reconstructed pixel values.
12. A method comprising: receiving a set of imaging projection data; receiving a volume; identifying a pixel to reconstruct; receiving a trained regression model; and reconstructing the pixel by: mapping the pixel onto each imaging projection in the set of projections according to an acquisition geometry; mapping the pixel onto voxels from the volume according to an acquisition geometry; extracting adjacent pixels around each mapped pixel in the projections; extracting adjacent voxels around each mapped pixel in the volume; feeding the regression model with the extracted adjacent pixel data and extracted adjacent voxel data to produce a reconstructed value of the pixel; and repeating the reconstruction for each pixel to be reconstructed.
13. The method of claim 12, further including training the regression model on at least one of: a database including acquired projection data and a 2D mammogram acquired under the same compression, the regression model trained to output a 2D image approximately identical to the 2D mammogram when fed with the projections; or a database including simulated projection data and a simulated 2D mammogram acquired under the same compression from a digital anthropomorphic phantom, the regression model trained to output a 2D image approximately identical to the simulated 2D mammogram when fed with the simulated projections.
14. The method of claim 12, further including training the regression model on at least one of: a database including digital anthropomorphic phantoms and simulated projection data obtained from the phantoms for a given acquisition geometry, the regression model trained to output a volume approximately identical to the anthropomorphic phantom when fed with the simulated projections; a database including computed tomography (CT) reconstructed data and simulated projections data obtained from the CT reconstruction data, the regression model trained to output a volume approximately identical to the CT reconstructed data when fed with the simulated projections; or a database including acquired projection data and reconstructed data from these projection data with a given reconstruction algorithm, the regression model trained to output a volume approximately identical to the reconstructed data when fed with the acquired projections.
15. The method of claim 12, further including displaying a reconstructed image onto a user interface using the reconstructed values.
16. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions which, when executed, cause a machine to at least: receive a set of imaging projections data; receive a volume; identify a pixel to reconstruct; receive a trained regression model; and reconstruct the pixel by: mapping the pixel onto each imaging projection in the set of imaging projections according to an acquisition geometry; mapping the pixel onto voxels from the volume according to an acquisition geometry; extracting adjacent pixels around each mapped pixel in the projections; extracting adjacent voxels around the mapped pixel in the volume; feeding the regression model with the extracted adjacent pixel data and the extracted adjacent voxel data to produce a reconstructed value of the pixel; and repeating the reconstruction for each pixel to be reconstructed.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the regression model is trained on at least one of: a database including acquired projection data and a 2D mammogram acquired under the same compression, the regression model trained to output a 2D image approximately identical to the 2D mammogram when fed with the projections; or a database including simulated projection data and a simulated 2D mammogram acquired under the same compression from a digital anthropomorphic phantom, the regression model trained to output a 2D image approximately identical to the simulated 2D mammogram when fed with the simulated projections.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the regression model is trained on at least one of: a database including digital anthropomorphic phantoms and simulated projection data obtained from the phantoms for a given acquisition geometry, the regression model trained to output a volume approximately identical to the anthropomorphic phantom when fed with the simulated projections; a database including computed tomography (CT) reconstructed data and simulated projections data obtained from the CT reconstruction data, the regression model trained to output a volume approximately identical to the CT reconstructed data when fed with the simulated projections; or a database including acquired projection data and reconstructed data from these projection data with a given reconstruction algorithm, the regression model trained to output a volume approximately identical to the reconstructed data when fed with the acquired projections
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, further including instructions which, when executed, cause a machine to identify a mistake within the reconstructed image and communicate with the regression model trainer to re-train the regression model.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, further including instructions which, when executed cause a machine to produce a reconstructed image onto a user interface using the reconstructed pixels.
</claims>
</document>
