<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S19/25,G01S19/29,G06F17/14,G06K9/62,H04B7/06,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOVANO
</assignee>

<inventors>
BROMBERG, MATTHEW C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69523891
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Bayesian Geolocation and Parameter Estimation by Retaining Channel and State Information
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a method of parameter estimation in a multi-channel signal environment where a plurality of receive antennas receive signals from one or more transmitters that transmit a signal or wave that is reflected from one or more targets, or receive antennas that receive directly from the transmitters, whose received signals are processed over multiple frequencies or channels by a digital receiver. The method comprises (a) calibrating before the operation of the digital receiver to determine the free parameters of a mathematical model of a channel either as the channel model parameters or in the form of tabulated data; (b) calibrating during the operation of the digital receiver to determine the channel model; (c) comparing received antennas array voltages to an analytic or table driven channel model from a calibrated template without only relying on information lossy intermediate steps such as delay time of arrival or angle of arrival measurements; (d) creating a statistical likelihood function modeling receiver noise to determine model channel parameters or prior channel uncertainty; (e) saving target reflector/emitter parameters to be reused for dynamic tracking; and (f) using Bayesian particle filtering or Maximum Likelihood Methods to update mixture models for the unknown parameters.
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. A method of parameter estimation in a multi-channel signal environment system where a plurality of receive antennas receive signals from one or more transmitters that transmit a signal or wave that is reflected from one or more targets, or receive antennas that receive directly from the transmitters, whose received signals are processed over multiple frequencies or channels by a digital receiver and one or more processors whose processing comprises the steps of: calibrating before the operation of the digital receiver to determine the free parameters of a mathematical model of a channel either as the channel model parameters or in the form of tabulated data; calibrating during the operation of the digital receiver to determine the channel model; comparing received antennas array voltages to an analytic or table driven channel model from a calibrated template without only relying on information lossy intermediate steps such as delay time of arrival or angle of arrival measurements; creating a statistical likelihood function modeling receiver noise to determine model channel parameters or prior channel uncertainty; and saving target reflector/emitter parameters to be reused for dynamic tracking; and using Bayesian particle filtering or Maximum Likelihood Methods to update mixture models for the unknown parameters.
2. The method of parameter estimation of claim 1, further including using Bayesian detection or other Statistical Signal Processing Techniques for the estimation of channel parameters such as location parameters, shape parameters and reflector electromagnetic parameters.
3. The method of parameter estimation of claim 1, wherein the transmitted signal is a frequency stepped radar.
4. The method of parameter estimation of claim 1, wherein a statistical likelihood function is used to determine target type or target position.
5. The method of parameter estimation of claim 1, wherein a channel template for each target type is used to further classify the target type or estimate the target position.
6. The method of parameter estimation of claim 1, wherein static direct path clutter is removed via a cancellation algorithm.
7. The method of parameter estimation of claim 1, that blindly calculates an unknown gain and phase constant βq over each channel observation q, to absorb bulk phase and gain changes between observations.
8. The method of parameter estimation of claim 1, wherein the statistical likelihood function takes the form of a Cauchy quotient and is therefore a member of the numerical range of a parameterized matrix as exhibited in Equation (14).
9. The method of parameter estimation of claim 1, wherein the target classification is determined from the likelihood function using the posterior probability of detection via Bayes theorem.
10. The method of parameter estimation of claim 1, wherein the target classification is determined from the likelihood function after blindly estimating any position dependent parameters during the classification process itself.
11. The method of parameter estimation of claim 9, wherein the target classification is determined from the likelihood function after blindly estimating phase terms such as time delays of arrival.
12. The method of parameter estimation of claim 10, wherein the target classification is determined from the likelihood function after blindly estimating phase delays using FFT processing.
13. The method of parameter estimation of claim 10, wherein the target classification or position parameters are determined from the likelihood function that assumed the scale parameters βq=β, are independent of the collection index and can therefore be solved using the generalized eigenvalue problem in Equation (8).
14. The method of parameter estimation of claim 1, wherein the DSP processing hardware is configured to enable parallel likelihood function calculations wherein the same instruction across all processing resources.
15. The method of parameter estimation of claim 1, wherein the DSP hardware has built in support for parallel reduction for primitive associative operations like addition, maximization, minimization or multiplication to enable the parallel computation of the likelihood function.
16. The method of parameter estimation of claim 1, wherein multiple transmit and receive RF chains are packed into an RF IC (ASIC) with clocks controlled by a phased locked loop.
17. The method of parameter estimation of claim 1, wherein the signals from each antenna are down converted and digitized by a bank of analog to digital converters, where they are further decimated to obtain a sample of the channel for each antenna and frequency in use.
18. The method of parameter estimation of claim 1, further interpolating the wave function using basis functions that are reflected through objects of predetermined shape or presumed electrical properties.
19. The method of parameter estimation of claim 17, wherein interpolating uses a likelihood function to compute a fixed set of channel vectors α, modulating the basis functions, that can be used to interpolate the channel at an arbitrary target position.
20. The method of parameter estimation of claim 17, further includes blindly calculating an unknown gain and phase constant βq over each channel observation q, to absorb bulk phase and gain changes between observations.
21. The method of parameter estimation of claim 18, further including computing separate channel vectors αc for each target type c.
22. The method of parameter estimation of claim 18, further including jointly computing the phase constants βq and the channel vectors αc by alternating directions optimization; ie iteratively estimating each parameter while holding the other fixed.
23. The method of parameter estimation of claim 18, further includes assuming the inner product of the basis functions is independent of position resulting in an eigenvalue problem (10) that is used to learn the channel vectors during calibration.
24. The method of parameter estimation of claim 18, further including assuming the scale parameters βq=β, are independent of the collection index, and can therefore be solved using the generalized eigenvalue problem in Equation (8).
25. The method of parameter estimation of claim 18, further calibrating a blind classifier by blindly estimating any position dependent parameters during the classification process itself, without necessarily using known target or array transceiver positions.
26. The method of parameter estimation of claim 18, further calibrating a blind classifier by after blindly estimating phase terms such as time delays during the classification process itself without necessarily using known target or array transceiver positions.
27. The method of parameter estimation of claim 18, further calibrating a blind classifier by blindly estimating phase delays using FFT processing, during the classification process itself, without necessarily using known target or array transceiver positions.
28. The method of parameter estimation of claim 17, wherein the DSP processing hardware is configured to enable parallel likelihood function calculations, yet can share the same instruction across all processing resources.
29. The method of parameter estimation of claim 17, wherein the DSP hardware has built in support for parallel reduction for primitive associative operations like addition, maximization, minimization or multiplication to enable the parallel computation of the likelihood function,
30. The method of parameter estimation of claim 17, wherein multiple transmit and receive RF chains are packed into an RF IC, with clocks controlled by a phased locked loop.
31. The method of parameter estimation of claim 17, wherein the signals from each antenna are down-converted and digitized by a bank of analog to digital converters wherein the signals are further decimated to obtain a sample of the channel for each antenna and frequency in use.
32. The method of parameter estimation of claim 17, wherein the likelihood function is itself used to further refine the presumed positions of the transmitter and receiver to improve the calibration channel model.
</claims>
</document>
