<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,H04L12/24,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHKODROV, GUEORGUI
YOM-TOV, ELAD
LIVNY, YOTAM
NEUVIRTH, HANI HANA
BURNS, DAWN ANTONETTE
PATRICH, DOTAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69726737
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ANOMALY LOOKUP FOR CYBER SECURITY HUNTING
</title>

<abstract>
Performing anomaly lookup on data sources that include an entity related to an alert. One or more entities related to an alert and a date when the alert occurred are received. The alert may indicate that an anomaly in data collected from a various data sources may be present in at least one of the data sources. The various data sources are searched for the one or more entities around the alert date to determine which of the data sources include the one or more entities. For those data sources including the one or more entities, an anomaly lookup procedure is performed on the data sources during a first time window to determine an initial set of suspicious anomalies.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable media having thereon computer-executable instructions that are structured such that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing system to: receive one or more entities related to an alert and a date when the alert occurred, the alert being indicative that an anomaly in data collected from a plurality of data sources may be present in at least one of the data sources; search all the plurality of data sources for the one or more entities around the alert date to determine which of the data sources of the plurality of data sources include the one or more entities; and for those data sources including the one or more entities, perform an anomaly lookup procedure on the data sources during a first time window to determine an initial set of suspicious anomalies.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein searching for the one or more entities around the alert date further comprises: for those data sources including the one or more entities, identifying data including the one or more entities that is of a type that is useable by the anomaly lookup procedure; and performing the anomaly lookup procedure on the useable data.
3. The computing system of claim 2, wherein the type of the data that is useable by the anomaly lookup procedure is one of categorical data or continuous data.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the one or more entities comprise one or more of a machine name, a user name, an IP address, or a network identifier.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computer-executable instructions are structured to further cause the computing system to: perform the anomaly lookup procedure during a second time window that is of a longer time period than the first time window to thereby help determine if the initial set of suspicious anomalies are of a malicious type or are of a random type.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computer-executable instructions are structured to further cause the computing system to: rank the initial set of suspicious anomalies to determine an order at which each of the suspicious anomalies should be investigated further.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the date that alert occurred also includes an associated time stamp.
8. The computing system of claim 1, wherein performing the anomaly lookup procedure comprises: determining a count of the initial set of suspicious anomalies during the first time window; and comparing the count during the first time window to a count determined during a third time window that is longer than first time window.
9. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of data sources include logs from one or more of a specific computer, routers on a network, an application, an operating system, network infrastructure, and cloud computing infrastructure.
10. A method for performing anomaly lookup on data sources that include an entity related to an alert, the method comprising: receiving one or more entities related to an alert and a date when the alert occurred, the alert being indicative that an anomaly in data collected from a plurality of data sources may be present in at least one of the data sources; searching all the plurality of data sources for the one or more entities around the alert date to determine which of the data sources of the plurality of data sources include the one or more entities; and for those data sources including the one or more entities, performing an anomaly lookup procedure on the data sources during a first time window to determine an initial set of suspicious anomalies.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein searching for the one or more entities around the alert date further comprises: for those data sources including the one or more entities, identifying data including the one or more entities that is of a type that is useable by the anomaly lookup procedure; and performing the anomaly lookup procedure on the useable data.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the type of the data that is useable by the anomaly lookup procedure is one of categorical data or continuous data.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more entities comprise one or more of a machine name, a user name, an IP address, or a network identifier.
14. The method of claim 10, further comprising: performing the anomaly lookup procedure during a second time window that is of a longer time period than the first time window to thereby help determine if the initial set of suspicious anomalies are of a malicious type or are of a random type.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising: ranking the initial set of suspicious anomalies to determine an order at which each of the suspicious anomalies should be investigated further.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein the date that the alert occurred also includes an associated time stamp.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein performing the anomaly lookup procedure comprises: determining a count of the initial set of suspicious anomalies during the first time window; and comparing the count during the first time window to a count determined during a third time window that is longer than first time window.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of data sources include logs from one or more of a specific computer, routers on a network, an application, an operating system, network infrastructure, and cloud computing infrastructure.
19. A computer program product comprising one or more computer-readable storage media having thereon computer-executable instructions that are structured such that, when executed by one or more processors of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform a method for performing anomaly lookup on data sources that include an entity related to an alert, the method comprising: receiving one or more entities related to an alert and a date when the alert occurred, the alert being indicative that an anomaly in data collected from a plurality of data sources may be present in at least one of the data sources; searching all the plurality of data sources for the one or more entities around the alert date to determine which of the data sources of the plurality of data sources include the one or more entities; and for those data sources including the one or more entities, performing an anomaly lookup procedure on the data sources during a first time window to determine an initial set of suspicious anomalies.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, further comprising: performing the anomaly lookup procedure during a second time window that is of a longer time period than the first time window to thereby help determine if the initial set of suspicious anomalies are of a malicious type or are of a random type.
</claims>
</document>
