<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64C39/02,B64D47/08,G08G5/00,G08G5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEC CORPORATION OF AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEV, TSVI
HOCH, YAACOV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72043658
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DRONE COLLISION AVOIDANCE
</title>

<abstract>
A computer implemented method of planning a drone flight path to increase safety of dynamic objects the drone is estimated to encounter along the flight path based on a mobility model constructed to predict movement of dynamic objects, comprising receiving sensory data captured over time by one or more sensors monitoring movement of a plurality of dynamic objects in a certain geographical area, analyzing the sensory data to identify one or more mobility patterns of one or more dynamic objects detected in the certain geographical area, updating a mobility model with the mobility pattern(s) and generating a planned flight path based on the mobility model for one or more drones planned to fly in the certain geographical area, the flight path is planned to maintain a predefined safety space between the drone(s) and the dynamic object(s).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method of planning a drone flight path to increase safety of dynamic objects the drone is estimated to encounter along the flight path based on a mobility model constructed to predict movement of dynamic objects, comprising: receiving sensory data captured over time by at least one sensor monitoring movement of a plurality of dynamic objects in a certain geographical area; analyzing the sensory data to identify at least one mobility pattern of at least one dynamic object detected in the certain geographical area; updating a mobility model with the at least one mobility pattern; and generating a planned flight path based on the mobility model for at least one drone planned to fly in the certain geographical area, the flight path is planned to maintain a predefined safety space between the at least one drone and the at least one dynamic object.
2. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the planned flight path defines a tubular space along having predefined boundaries in at least one of: a vertical axis and a horizontal axis with respect to ground in which the drone is permitted to fly.
3. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the predefined safety space is defined to prevent damage to the at least one dynamic object resulting from at least one of: a collision with the at least one drone, a hit of at least one part disintegrated from the at least one drone and a hit of at least one part of another object disintegrated as result of a collision with the at least one drone.
4. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one dynamic object is a member of a group consisting of: a human, an animal, a vehicle, machinery and a moving road infrastructure object.
5. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor is a member of a group consisting of: an imaging sensor, a laser detection and ranging (LiDAR) sensor, a radio detection and ranging (RADAR) sensor and a sound navigation and ranging (SONAR) sensor.
6. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor is statically deployed in the certain geographical area.
7. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor is mounted in at least one aerial vehicle flying over the certain geographical area, the at least one aerial vehicle is a member of a group consisting of: a drone, an unmanned aerial vehicle, a manned aerial vehicle and a satellite.
8. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one identified mobility pattern defines at least one of: a location, a direction and a speed.
9. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting the at least one mobility pattern in the mobility model according to at least one temporal parameter associated with the movement of the at least one dynamic object, the at least one temporal parameter is a member of a group consisting of: a time of day, a day of week and a date.
10. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting the at least one mobility pattern in the mobility model according to at least one environmental condition associated with the movement of the at least one dynamic object, the at least one environmental condition is a member of a group consisting of: a temperature and a weather condition.
11. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising the analysis of the sensory data includes at least one machine learning algorithm applied to the sensory data for detecting the at least one mobility pattern.
12. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting the mobility model according to at least one area restriction in the certain geographical area, the at least one area restriction is a member of a group consisting of: a no fly zone in which the drone is not allowed to fly and a safe flight zone in which the drone is allowed to fly with no restrictions.
13. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting the mobility model according to at least one flight planning rule predefined to ensure compliance of the flight path with at least one regulation restriction, the at least one regulation restriction is a member of a group consisting of: a privacy right, a noise restriction and a public safety.
14. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting the mobility model to include at least one mobility pattern of at least one dynamic object which potentially emerges from at least one entry point detected in the certain geographical area based on the analysis of the sensory data, the at least one entry point is a member of a group consisting of: a doorway, a hallway and a street corner.
15. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting the flight plan to follow an elevated path tracking a human movement path defined by the mobility model.
16. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising constructing the flight plan to define at least one emergency action to be applied by the at least one drone in case the predefined safety space cannot be maintained, the at least one emergency action is a member of a group consisting of: an immediate emergency landing, moving to a predefined altitude, operating at least one collision measure and operating at least one signaling measure to indicate presence of the drone.
17. The computer implemented method of claim 16, wherein the at least one emergency action is defined according to at least one of: a map of the certain geographical area, a model of the certain geographical area, a plan of public transportation in the certain geographical area and the analysis of the sensory data captured in the certain geographical area.
18. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least one segment of the planned flight path is generated by the at least one drone while in flight based on the mobility model, the at least one segment of the planned flight defines a future route of the at least one drone during the current flight.
19. The computer implemented method of claim 18, wherein the mobility model is updated according to sensory data captured during the current flight by at last one sensor mounted on the at least one drone.
20. A system for planning a drone flight path to increase safety of dynamic objects the drone is estimated to encounter along the flight path based on a mobility model constructed to predict movement of dynamic objects, comprising: a program store storing a code; and at least one processor coupled to the program store for executing the stored code, the code comprising: code instruction to receive sensory data captured over time by at least one sensor monitoring movement of a plurality of dynamic objects in a certain geographical area, code instruction to analyze the sensory data to identify at least one mobility pattern of at least one dynamic object detected in the certain geographical area, code instruction to update a mobility model with the at least one mobility pattern, and code instruction to generate a planned flight path based on the mobility model for at least one drone planned to fly in the certain geographical area, the flight path is planned to maintain a predefined safety space between the at least one drone and the at least one dynamic object.
21. A computer implemented method of planning a drone flight path to increase safety of dynamic objects the drone is estimated to encounter along the flight path based on a mobility model constructed to predict movement of dynamic objects, comprising: receiving sensory data captured over time by at least one sensor monitoring movement of a plurality of dynamic objects in at least one geographical area characterized by at least one area characteristic; analyzing the sensory data to identify at least one mobility pattern of at least one dynamic object detected in the at least one geographical area; updating a mobility model with the at least one mobility pattern; and generating a planned flight path based on the mobility model for at least one drone planned to fly in another geographical area sharing the at least one area characteristic with the at least one geographical area, the flight path is planned to maintain a predefined safety space between the at least one drone and the at least one dynamic object.
</claims>
</document>
