<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G16Y30/10,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HighlOT Ltd.
</assignee>

<inventors>
RYABENKIY, Igor
RABINOVICH, Igor
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67907536
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD OF SECURE COMMUNICATION WITH INTERNET OF THINGS DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods of vulnerability detection for at least one internet of things (IoT) device in a computer network, including monitoring communication in the computer network to detect at least one IoT device, determining type and behavior of the detected at least one IoT device, checking in at least one vulnerability database in communication with the computer network, for a device profile corresponding to the type of the detected at least one IoT device, and blocking communication between the at least one IoT device and the computer network if the determined behavior of the at least one IoT device violates at least one predetermined rule for the corresponding device profile.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of vulnerability detection for at least one internet of things (IoT) device in a computer network, the method comprising: monitoring, by at least one monitoring device, communication in the computer network to detect at least one IoT device; determining, by the at least one monitoring device, type and behavior of the detected at least one IoT device; checking, in at least one vulnerability database in communication with the computer network, for a device profile corresponding to the type of the detected at least one IoT device; and blocking communication between the at least one IoT device and the computer network if the determined behavior of the at least one IoT device violates at least one predetermined rule for the corresponding device profile, wherein the predetermined rule comprises a global device profile with basic allowed values for at least one of: allowed protocols, allowed media access control (MAC) addresses, allowed ports, allowed IP range, number of packets in communication, size of packets in communication, and allowed status.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: requesting, by the at least one monitoring device, profiles for the type of the detected at least one IoT device from the computer network; receiving, by the at least one monitoring device, at least one offer with data corresponding to the type of the detected at least one IoT device; and selecting, by the at least one monitoring device, the offer with the largest amount of profile data.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: updating a device profile to the vulnerability database with type and behavior data of the detected at least one IoT device; and determining valid behavior for the at least one IoT device based on the updated device profile.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: updating a device profile to the vulnerability database with type and behavior data of the detected at least one IoT device; requesting validation checks for the at least one IoT device based on the updated device profile by at least one external monitoring device; and determining valid behavior for the at least one IoT device if a predetermined amount of external monitoring devices validates the at least one IoT device.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising registering the at least one IoT device based on the updated device profile in a data block of a registered IoT device database.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising sending at least one predetermined data packet for each external monitoring device that validates the at least one IoT device.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising monitoring wireless communication in the computer network to capture at least one data packet.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising implementing at least one smart contract to block communication with the at least one IoT device.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the type and behavior of the detected at least one IoT device are determined with at least one machine learning algorithm.
10. A vulnerability detection system for at least one internet of things (IoT) device in a computer network, the system comprising: at least one monitoring device, in communication with the computer network and configured to analyze data from the at least one IoT device, and wherein the at least one monitoring device is configured to block communication with at least one IoT device upon determination that the at least one IoT device violates at least one predetermined rule; at least one vulnerability database, configured to communicate with the at least one monitoring device and configured to store profiles of IoT devices; and a server, in communication with the computer network and configured to facilitate communication between the at least one monitoring device and the at least one vulnerability database, wherein data transferred between the server and the at least one monitoring device comprises at least one predetermined rule with a global device profile with basic allowed values for at least one of: type of IoT device, allowed protocols, allowed media access control (MAC) addresses, allowed ports, allowed IP range, number of packets in communication, size of packets in communication, and allowed status.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the server is configured to: request profiles for the type of the detected at least one IoT device; receive at least one offer with data corresponding to the type of the detected at least one IoT device; and select the offer with the largest amount of profile data.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the server is configured to: update a device profile to the vulnerability database with type and behavior data of the detected at least one IoT device; and determine valid behavior for the at least one IoT device based on the updated device profile.
13. The system of claim 10, further comprising a processor coupled to the server and configured to carry out processing operations in the vulnerability detection system.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one monitoring device is configured to monitor wireless communication in the computer network to capture at least one data packet.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the server is configured to: update a device profile to the vulnerability database with type and behavior data of the detected at least one IoT device; request validation checks for the at least one IoT device based on the updated device profile by at least one external monitoring device; and determine valid behavior for the at least one IoT device if a predetermined amount of external monitoring devices validates the at least one IoT device.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the server is configured to register the at least one IoT device based on the updated device profile in a data block of a registered IoT device database.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the server is configured to send at least one predetermined data packet for each external monitoring device that validates the at least one IoT device.
18. The system of claim 10, wherein at least one smart contract is implemented to block communication with the at least one IoT device.
19. A method of vulnerability detection for at least one computerized device in a computer network, the method comprising: monitoring, by at least one monitoring device, communication in the computer network to detect a type of at least one computerized device; determining, by the at least one monitoring device, behavior of the detected at least one computerized device; checking, in at least one vulnerability database in communication with the computer network, for a device profile corresponding to the type of the detected at least one computerized device; and blocking communication between the at least one computerized device and the computer network if the determined behavior of the at least one computerized device violates at least one predetermined rule for the corresponding device profile.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the at least one computerized is at least one internet of things (IoT) device.
</claims>
</document>
