<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/08,A61B5/097,G01N33/497,G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Canary Health Technologies Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
REDDY, RAJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72519449
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BIOMARKERS FOR SYSTEMS, METHODS, AND DEVICES FOR DETECTING AND IDENTIFYING SUBSTANCES IN A SUBJECT'S BREATH, AND DIAGNOSING AND TREATING HEALTH CONDITIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the disclosure can include biomarkers for systems, methods, and devices for detecting and identifying certain substances, such as chemicals, volatile organic compounds (VOCs), volatile gases (VGs), ketones, cannabis, controlled substances, pharmaceuticals, or anesthetics, in the exhaled breath of a subject or person in real-time; and further diagnosing, treating, and addressing one or more associated health conditions or diseases, including a virus, such as COVID-19, tuberculosis (TB), lung cancer, or chronic obstructive lung disease (COPD).
</abstract>

<claims>
The claimed subject matter is:
1. A system for detecting and identifying one or more chemicals in exhaled breath of a subject with lung cancer or chronic obstructive lung disease, the system comprising: a mouth piece connected to a housing, the mouth piece operable to receive the exhaled breath of the subject; a sensor module disposed in the housing, the sensor module operable to detect the one or more chemicals in the exhaled breath, and further operable to collect data associated with detection of the one or more one or more chemicals; and a communication module disposed in the housing and in communication with the sensor module, the communication module operable to transmit collected data from the sensor module.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor module comprises: at least one sensor component operable to detect one or more chemicals, wherein the sensor component comprises at least one of the following: an electronic sensor, an electromechanical sensor, an electrochemical sensor, a nanoparticle sensor, a 2D (two-dimensional) metal carbide, a 2D (two-dimensional) Ti3C2 nanosheet, a MXene, one or more metal oxide nanoparticles blended with a hybrid structure of graphene, a conducting polymer, polyaniline (PAni), polypyrrole (PPY), a supramolecule, a cavitand, a thin film of a supramolecule, or a calixresorcinarene.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor module comprises: at least one array of respective sensors, wherein each sensor is operable to detect at least one chemical.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the chemicals comprise at least one of the following: decane; benzene: aldehydes and branched aldehydes; hexadecanal; 2,6,10,14-tetramethylpentadecane; eicosane; 5-(2-methyl-) propylnonane; 7-methylhexadecane; 8-methylhexadecane; 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol; 2,6,11-trimethyldodecane; 3,7-dimethylpentadecane; nonadecane; 8-hexylpenrtadecane; 4-methyltetradecane; 2,6,10-trimethyltetradecane; 5-(1-methyl-) propylnonane; 2-methylnapthalene; 2-methylhendecanal; nonadecanol; 2-pentadecanone; 3,7-dimethyldecane; tridecanone; 5-propyltridecane; 2,6-dimethylnapthalene; tridecane; 3,8-dimethylhecdecane; 5-butylnonane and any combination thereof.
5. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a biomarker processing module, in communication with the sensor module, and operable to process the collected data associated with detection of the one or more chemicals and to identify the one or more chemicals.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the biomarker processing module is further operable to process the collected data via a neural network or pattern recognition algorithm, wherein a result from the biomarker processing module is received by the communication module for output to a mobile communication device associated with the subject.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the biomarker processing module is further operable to process the collected data in conjunction with other sensor data, wherein a result from the biomarker processing module is received by the communication module for output to a mobile communication device associated with the subject.
8. The system of claim 1, further comprising: an activity sensor operable to detect or measure one or more physical actions by the subject, and further operable to collect data associated with detection or measurement of the one or more physical actions; and wherein the communication module is in communication with the activity sensor, and the communication module is further operable to transmit collected data from the activity sensor.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the communication module is further operable to communicate with a mobile communication device associated with the subject, wherein the mobile communication device receives the collected data from the sensor module and the collected data from the activity sensor.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the communication module is further operable to transmit collected data via at least one of the following: IR (infrared) communication, wireless communication, a Bluetooth protocol wireless communication, a direct wired connection, or to a remote memory storage device.
11. A method comprising: receiving an exhaled breath of a subject; detecting, via a nanoparticle sensor, one or more chemicals in the exhaled breath, the at one or more chemicals associated with the subject having lung cancer or chronic obstructive lung disease; based at least in part on detection of the one or more chemicals, generating an electronic signal associated with a concentration or amount of the one or more chemicals; and outputting, via a display device, an indication of lung cancer or chronic obstructive lung disease in the subject associated with the concentration or amount of the one or more chemicals.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining the electronic signal correlates with a predefined signal or signal pattern associated with lung cancer or chronic obstructive lung disease; and identifying, based at least in part on the determination of a correlation with a predefined signal or signal pattern, lung cancer or chronic obstructive lung disease in the subject.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: processing the electronic signal via a neural network or pattern recognition algorithm, wherein the electronic signal correlates with a predefined signal or signal pattern associated with lung cancer or chronic obstructive lung disease; and identifying, based at least in part on the determination of a correlation with a predefined signal or signal pattern, lung cancer or chronic obstructive lung disease in the subject.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: classifying the electronic signal as a new signal or signal pattern associated with lung cancer or chronic obstructive lung disease; and storing the new signal or signal pattern in a data storage device.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: facilitating a treatment to address lung cancer or chronic obstructive lung disease in the subject.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining, based at least in part on expression levels of one or more biomarkers in a sample of exhaled breath from the subject, whether a concentration or amount of some or all of the biomarkers exceeds a predefined threshold in the subject, wherein the biomarkers are selected from one or more of the above identified biomarkers; and performing a lung cancer or chronic obstructive lung disease treatment on the subject to treat the lung cancer or chronic obstructive lung disease.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the biomarkers comprise at least one of the following: decane; benzene; aldehydes and branched aldehydes; hexadecanal; 2,6,10,14-tetramethylpentadecane; eicosane; 5-(2-methyl-) propylnonane; 7-methylhexadecane; 8-methylhexadecane; 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol; 2,6,11-trimethyldodecane; 3,7-dimethylpentadecane; nonadecane; 8-hexylpenrtadecane; 4-methyltetradecane; 2,6,10-trimethyltetradecane; 5-(1-methyl-) propylnonane; 2-methylnapthalene; 2-methylhendecanal; nonadecanol; 2-pentadecanone; 3,7-dimethyldecane; tridecanone; 5-propyltridecane; 2,6-dimethylnapthalene; tridecane; 3,8-dimethylhecdecane; and 5-butylnonane and any combination thereof.
18. A sensor comprising: a first sensor component operable to expose one or more nanoparticles to at least one chemical in an exhaled breath of a subject, wherein the one or more nanoparticles are operable to react to a presence of or contact with the at least one chemical, the at least one chemical associated with a subject having lung cancer or chronic obstructive lung disease; a second sensor component operable to generate an electronic signal when the one or more nanoparticles react to the presence of or contact with the at least one chemical, wherein the electronic signal is associated with a concentration or amount of the at least one chemical; and an electronic circuit operable to transmit the electronic signal to an output device or computer processor.
19. The sensor of claim 18, wherein the first sensor component comprises at least one of the following: a 2D (two-dimensional) metal carbide, a 2D (two-dimensional) Ti3C2 nanosheet, a MXene, one or more metal oxide nanoparticles blended with a hybrid structure of graphene, a conducting polymer, polyaniline (PAni), polypyrrole (PPY), a supramolecule, a cavitand, a thin film of a supramolecule, or a calixresorcinarene.
20. The sensor of claim 18, wherein the one or more chemicals comprise at least one of the following: a ketone, acetone, 3-pentanone, or 2-hexanone.
</claims>
</document>
