<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12N15/10,G16B15/30,G16B35/20,G16B5/00,G16C10/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CODEXIS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG, XIYUN
BASKERVILLE, DONALD SCOTT
SARMIENTO, RUSSELL JAVINIAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51743552
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR ENGINEERING BIOMOLECULES
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are methods for building a sequence activity model with reference to structural data, which model can be used to guide directed evolution of proteins having beneficial properties. Some embodiments use genetic algorithms and structural data to filter out uninformative data. Some embodiments use a support vector machine to train the sequence activity model. The filtering and training methods can generate a sequence activity model having higher predictive power than conventional modeling methods. Systems and computer program products implementing the methods are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, implemented using a computer system comprising one or more processors and system memory, of conducting directed evolution, the method comprising: (a) receiving, by the computer system, an unfiltered data set having information from physical measurements of molecules, wherein the unfiltered data set comprises the following information for each of a plurality of variant biomolecules: (i) activity of the variant biomolecule on a ligand in a binding site of the variant biomolecule, (ii) a sequence of the variant biomolecule, wherein the sequence is a nucleic acid sequence or a protein sequence, and (iii) one or more geometric parameters characterizing the geometry of the ligand in the binding site of the variant biomolecule; (b) filtering, by the one or more processors, the unfiltered data set to generate a filtered data subset, by removing at least one of the geometric parameters from the unfiltered data set and/or removing from the unfiltered data set certain variant biomolecules having geometric parameter values outside defined ranges, wherein the filtering comprises training sequence activity models with a plurality of selected data subsets and testing the ability of the sequence activity models trained with the plurality of selected data subsets to predict the activity of a variant biomolecule, and thereby identifying a filtered data subset that provides a sequence activity model with higher ability to predict the activity of a variant biomolecule than a sequence activity model trained with the unfiltered data set, the sequence of the variant biomolecule and one or more of the geometric parameters are independent variables in the sequence activity models trained with the plurality of selected data subsets, each selected data subset having information for at least one of the geometric parameters and/or certain variant biomolecules having geometric parameter values outside defined ranges removed from the unfiltered data set of (a); and (c) applying, using the one or more processors, a sequence activity model trained using the filtered data subset to identify one or more new biomolecule variants predicted to have activity meeting one or more criteria.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the filtering the unfiltered data set is performed with a genetic algorithm that varies thresholds for removing information associated with the geometric parameters for one or more of the variant biomolecules.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the sequence activity model trained using the filtered data subset comprises recombining or mutating one or more known biomolecule variants to obtain potential new biomolecule variants, the one or more known biomolecule variants are predicted by the sequence activity model to have activities meeting a criterion.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising evaluating the potential new biomolecule variants using the sequence activity model trained using the filtered data subset as a fitness function to identify the one or more new biomolecule variants.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising producing a structural model for each of the new biomolecule variants; and using the structural models to generate geometric parameters characterizing the geometry of the ligand in the binding sites of the new biomolecule variants.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving structural models of biomolecule variants and determining the one or more geometric parameters using the structural models.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the structural models are homology models, and optionally wherein the homology models are prepared using physical structural measurement details of biomolecules.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the physical structural measurement details of biomolecules comprise three-dimensional positions of atoms obtained by NMR or x-ray crystallography.
9. The method of claim 6, further comprising using a docker to determine the one or more geometric parameters.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the information for each of a plurality of variant biomolecules further comprises (iv) an interaction energy characterizing the interaction of the ligand in the binding site.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising using a docker to determine the interaction energy.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequence activity model trained using the filtered data subset is obtained by a support vector machine, a multiple linear regression, a principal component regression, a partial least square regression, or a neural network.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of variant biomolecules comprises a plurality of enzymes.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the activity of the variant biomolecule on a ligand is the activity of an enzyme on a substrate.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising synthesizing the new biomolecule variants or assaying the new biomolecule variants for activity.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the filtering the unfiltered data set comprises removing from the unfiltered data set certain variant biomolecules having geometric parameter values outside defined ranges.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the filtering the data set is performed with a genetic algorithm.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more new biomolecule variants has a sequence that differs from the sequences of the biomolecule variants providing information for the data set of (a).
19. A computer program product comprising one or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media having stored thereon computer-executable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a computer system, cause the computer system to implement a method for conducting directed evolution, the method comprising: (a) receiving an unfiltered data set having information from physical measurements of molecules, wherein the unfiltered data set comprises the following information for each of a plurality of variant biomolecules: (i) activity of the variant biomolecule on a ligand in a binding site of the variant biomolecule, (ii) a sequence of the variant biomolecule, wherein the sequence is a nucleic acid sequence or a protein sequence, and (iii) one or more geometric parameters characterizing the geometry of the ligand in the binding site of the variant biomolecule; (b) filtering the unfiltered data set to generate a filtered data subset, by removing at least one of the geometric parameters from the unfiltered data set and/or removing from the unfiltered data set certain variant biomolecules having geometric parameter values outside defined ranges, wherein the filtering comprises training sequence activity models with a plurality of selected data subsets and testing the ability of the sequence activity models trained with the plurality of selected data subsets to predict the activity of a variant biomolecule, and thereby identifying a filtered data subset that provides a sequence activity model with higher ability to predict the activity of a variant biomolecule than a sequence activity model trained with the unfiltered data set, the sequence of the variant biomolecule and one or more of the geometric parameters are independent variables in the sequence activity models trained with the plurality of selected data subsets, each selected data subset having information for at least one of the geometric parameters and/or certain variant biomolecules having geometric parameter values outside defined ranges removed from the unfiltered data set of (a); and (c) applying a sequence activity model trained using the filtered data subset to identify one or more new biomolecule variants predicted to have activity meeting one or more criteria.
20. A computer system, comprising: one or more processors; system memory; and one or more computer-readable storage media having stored thereon computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to implement a method for conducting directed evolution, the method comprising: (a) receiving an unfiltered data set having information from physical measurements of molecules, wherein the unfiltered data set comprises the following information for each of a plurality of variant biomolecules: (i) activity of the variant biomolecule on a ligand in a binding site of the variant biomolecule, (ii) a sequence of the variant biomolecule, wherein the sequence is a nucleic acid sequence or a protein sequence, and (iii) one or more geometric parameters characterizing the geometry of the ligand in the binding site of the variant biomolecule; (b) filtering the unfiltered data set to generate a filtered data subset, by removing at least one of the geometric parameters from the unfiltered data set and/or removing from the unfiltered data set certain variant biomolecules having geometric parameter values outside defined ranges, wherein the filtering comprises training sequence activity models with a plurality of selected data subsets and testing the ability of the sequence activity models trained with the plurality of selected data subsets to predict the activity of a variant biomolecule, and thereby identifying a filtered data subset that provides a sequence activity model with higher ability to predict the activity of a variant biomolecule than a sequence activity model trained with the unfiltered data set, the sequence of the variant biomolecule and one or more of the geometric parameters are independent variables in the sequence activity models trained with the plurality of selected data subsets, each selected data subset having information for at least one of the geometric parameters and/or certain variant biomolecules having geometric parameter values outside defined ranges removed from the unfiltered data set of (a); and (c) applying a sequence activity model trained using the filtered data subset to identify one or more new biomolecule variants predicted to have activity meeting one or more criteria.
</claims>
</document>
