<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q10/08,G08B21/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LOCATEE
</assignee>

<inventors>
NEBEHAY, GEORG
KESSLER, THOMAS
MULLI, ALEXANDER FABIAN
KOPPEL, BENEDIKT ANDREAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55646366
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICE, SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MONITORING USAGE OF FUNCTIONAL FACILITIES
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed embodiments relate to a system for monitoring the usage of a functional facility, the system comprising (i) a plurality of detectors for detecting the presence of at least one client device in the functional facility and which detectors are geographically mapped in the functional facility; and (ii) a client device mapping module for determining the location of the at least one client device detected by one or more of the plurality of detectors. Moreover, the invention is directed to a method for monitoring the usage of a functional facility including one or more detectors, comprising the steps (1) detecting an operable engagement made between a detector deployed in the functional facility and a computerized client device; (2) determining a location point of the computerized client device; and (3) providing an output which is descriptive of the detected operable engagement along with information relating to the determined location point.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for monitoring usage of a functional facility, comprising: a plurality of detectors for detecting the presence of at least one client device in the functional facility, wherein the plurality of detectors are geographically mapped in the functional facility; one or more processors; and one or more memories storing computer-executable instructions executable by the one or more processors to cause the system to perform the following steps: determining the location of the at least one client device detected by one or more of the plurality of detectors; and mapping the client device to a closest free location which is within a certain range of a wireless-based location estimate of the same client device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein a location is considered free if one or both of the following conditions is met: if no LAN connection is made by another client device at that location; and if a WLAN communication link capacity for that location is not exceeded.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the steps further comprise: classifying a location point of the at least one client device in the functional facility according to a dwell time criterion into one or more location classifications selected from: "occupied", "free" and "warm", wherein a location point information is classified as "warm" if a client device leaves a location point and the same client device returns to the previous location point within a certain time interval and no other client device is connected to the said location point during this time interval.
4. A system for monitoring usage of a functional facility, comprising: a plurality of detectors for detecting the presence of at least one client device in the functional facility, wherein the plurality of detectors are geographically mapped in the functional facility; a memory storing computer-executable instructions; and a processor which, when executing the computer-executable instructions, performs the following steps: determining the location of the at least one client device detected by one or more of the plurality of detectors, determining an estimate of a location point pertaining to a first client device which is associated with a user and wirelessly coupled with at least one of the plurality of detectors; detecting a wired LAN connection that is made by a second client device associated with the user with at least one other of the plurality of detectors; and determining a distance between the estimated location point pertaining to the first client device and the location associated with the at least one other of the plurality of detectors; and if the distance is within a certain range, mapping the first client device to the location of the at least one other of the plurality of detectors.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the steps further comprise: keeping the estimated location point which is associated with the first client device, if the distance is outside a certain range.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the steps further comprise: providing an output which is indicative of the usage of the functional facility during a time interval, based on the location of the at least one client device in the functional facility during the time interval.
7. The system of claim 4, wherein the steps further comprise: anonymizing identifiers that are associated with the geographically mapped client device.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the step of anonymizing identifiers comprises: executing an anonymization technique that includes applying different anonymization levels for anonymizing identifiers of the client devices.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the step of executing an anonymization technique includes applying: a first, non-anonymized level in which no restrictions are imposed as of users of the client devices by allowing unlimited tracking of the client devices; a second, mid-anonymized level in which the client devices are anonymized on a team level such that identifiers of different groups of users are associated with different teams; a third, high-anonymization level, in which the client devices are anonymized at company level.
10. The system according to claim 4, wherein the steps further comprise: mapping of the LAN connections with ports of network switches, wherein the wire-based detector mapping module employs a caching procedure for the mapping of the LAN connections.
11. A method for monitoring usage of a functional facility including one or more detectors, comprising the following steps: detecting the presence of at least one client device in the functional facility, wherein the plurality of detectors are geographically mapped in the functional facility; determining the location of the at least one client device detected by one or more of the plurality of detectors, determining an estimate of a location point pertaining to a first client device which is associated with a user and wirelessly coupled with at least one of the plurality of detectors; detecting a wired LAN connection that is made by a second client device associated with the user with at least one other of the plurality of detectors; and determining a distance between the estimated location point pertaining to the first client device and the location associated with the at least one other of the plurality of detectors, wherein if the distance is within a certain range, mapping the first client device to the location of the at least one other of the plurality of detectors.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of: determining a plurality of time intervals for a plurality of first client devices, each of the time intervals indicating a dwell time duration of each one of the first client devices at the respective estimated location points.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of: applying a filter logic on the estimated location points to obtain location information for a selection of the plurality of first client devices that is operably engaged wirelessly with a plurality of detectors.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of: performing cluster analysis on data which is descriptive of the estimated location points for the selection of the plurality of first client devices and the associated time stamps of recordation of the estimated location points.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising the step of: providing a heat map which is indicative of the usage of an area in the functional facility during a time interval.
16. A system for monitoring usage of a functional facility, comprising: a plurality of detectors for detecting the presence of at least one client device in the functional facility, wherein the plurality of detectors are geographically mapped in the functional facility; and a memory storing computer-executable instructions; and a processor which, when executing the computer-executable instructions, results in performing the following steps: detecting the presence of at least one client device in the functional facility, wherein the plurality of detectors are geographically mapped in the functional facility; determining the location of the at least one client device detected by one or more of the plurality of detectors, classifying a location point information of a function facility according to a dwell time criterion into a selected one of two or more location classifications according one or more classification criteria, the two or more location classifications comprising: "occupied", "free" and "warm", wherein a location point information is classified as "warm" if a client device leaves a location point and the same client device returns to the previous location point within a certain time interval and no other client device connected to the said location point during this time interval.
17. The system of claim 16, further comprising the step of: determining a plurality of time intervals for a plurality of first client devices, each of the time intervals indicating a dwell time duration of each one of the first client devices at the respective estimated location points.
18. The system of claim 17, further comprising the step of: applying a filter logic on the estimated location points to obtain location information for a selection of the plurality of first client devices that is operably engaged wirelessly with a plurality of detectors.
19. The system of claim 18, further comprising the step of: performing cluster analysis on data which is descriptive of the estimated location points for the selection of the plurality of first client devices and the associated time stamps of recordation of the estimated location points.
20. The system of claim 19, further comprising the step of: providing a heat map which is indicative of the usage of an area in the functional facility during a time interval.
</claims>
</document>
