<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B44/00,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SCHLUMBERGER TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAJITA, MARCOS
LIU, ZHIJIE
THIESSEN, ERIC
ZHENG, SHUNFENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72748058
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT DRILLING RIG CONTROL SYSTEM COMMISSIONING, DIAGNOSTICS AND MAINTENANCE
</title>

<abstract>
A method for commissioning a drilling rig. The method includes detecting a first plurality of components of a drilling rig control system to control a drilling operation, obtaining a knowledge graph comprising a plurality of nodes corresponding to the first plurality of components, and a plurality of links connecting the plurality of nodes, wherein each of the plurality of links represents at least a target measure of data communication and resource utilization of each pair of components of the first plurality of components, and performing, by a drilling rig commissioning system and based on the knowledge graph, a management task of the drilling rig control system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: detecting a first plurality of components of a drilling rig control system to control a drilling operation; obtaining a knowledge graph comprising a plurality of nodes corresponding to the first plurality of components; and a plurality of links connecting the plurality of nodes, wherein each of the plurality of links represents at least a target measure of data communication and resource utilization of each pair of components of the first plurality of components; and performing, by a drilling rig commissioning system and based on the knowledge graph, a management task of the drilling rig control system.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of components comprises a plurality of sub-systems and a plurality of hardware components, wherein the plurality of sub-systems and the plurality of hardware components collectively form a first hierarchy of the drilling rig control system, wherein a plurality sets of software components embedded in the plurality of sub-systems collectively form a second hierarchy of the drilling rig control system, and wherein each set of the plurality sets of software components is associated with an aspect of the drilling operation and installed on one of the plurality of sub-systems to control a portion of the plurality of the hardware components.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the knowledge graph comprises a overall drilling rig control system knowledge graph and a plurality of sub-system knowledge graph, wherein the overall drilling rig control system knowledge graph corresponds to the first hierarchy, and wherein the plurality of sub-system knowledge graph corresponds to the second hierarchy.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein performing the management task comprises: performing, based on the knowledge graph, a software commissioning task of the second hierarchy of the drilling rig control system.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the software commissioning task comprises at least one selected from a group consisting of software installation, software-to-service connection, software-to-software connection, license verification, user validation, and network port configuration of a sub-system software component in the second hierarchy of the second plurality of components.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein performing the management task further comprises: establishing, based on the knowledge graph, a data communication connection between a pair of components comprised in the second hierarchy of the second plurality of components.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining, during the drilling operation and from the plurality of components, a pre-determined measure of data communication and resource utilization of a pair of components of the plurality of components; comparing, based on the knowledge graph, the pre-determined measure and a corresponding target measure of the pair of components to generate a result; and performing a diagnostic task of the drilling rig control system based on the result.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining, during the drilling operation and from the plurality of components, a health measure of the plurality of components; comparing, based on the knowledge graph, the obtained health measure and a corresponding target measure of the plurality of components to generate a result; and performing a diagnostic task of the drilling rig control system based on the result.
9. A drilling rig commissioning system, comprising: a computer processor; memory storing instructions, when executed by the computer processor, comprising functionality of: detecting a first plurality of components of a drilling rig control system to control a drilling operation; obtaining a knowledge graph comprising a plurality of nodes corresponding to the first plurality of components; and a plurality of links connecting the plurality of nodes, wherein each of the plurality of links represents at least a target measure of data communication and resource utilization of each pair of components of the first plurality of components; and performing, based on the knowledge graph, a management task of the drilling rig control system; and a data repository for storing the knowledge graph.
10. The drilling rig commissioning system of claim 9, wherein the first plurality of components comprises a plurality of sub-systems and a plurality of hardware components wherein the plurality of sub-systems and the plurality of hardware components collectively form a first hierarchy of the drilling rig control system, wherein a plurality sets of software components embedded in the plurality of sub-systems collectively form a second hierarchy of the drilling rig control system, and wherein each set of the plurality sets of software components is associated with an aspect of the drilling operation and installed on one of the plurality of sub-systems to control a portion of the plurality of the hardware components.
11. The drilling rig commissioning system of claim 10, wherein the knowledge graph comprises a overall drilling rig control system knowledge graph and a plurality of sub-system knowledge graph, wherein the overall drilling rig control system knowledge graph corresponds to the first hierarchy, and wherein the plurality of sub-system knowledge graph corresponds to the second hierarchy.
12. The drilling rig commissioning system of claim 11, wherein performing the management task comprises: performing, based on the knowledge graph, a software commissioning task of the second hierarchy of the drilling rig control system.
13. The drilling rig commissioning system of claim 12, wherein the software commissioning task comprises at least one selected from a group consisting of software installation, software-to-service connection, software-to-software connection, license verification, user validation, and network port configuration of a sub-system software component in the second hierarchy of the second plurality of components.
14. The drilling rig commissioning system of claim 11, wherein performing the management task comprises: establishing, based on the knowledge graph, a data communication connection between a pair of components comprised in the second hierarchy of the second plurality of components.
15. The drilling rig commissioning system of claim 9, wherein performing the management task comprises: obtaining, during the drilling operation from the plurality of components, a pre-determined measure of data communication and resource utilization of a pair of components of the plurality of components; comparing, based on the knowledge graph, the pre-determined measure and a corresponding target measure of the pair of components to generate a result; and performing a diagnostic task of the drilling rig control system based on the result.
16. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing instructions, the instructions when executed comprising functionality for: detecting a first plurality of components of a drilling rig control system to control a drilling operation; obtaining a knowledge graph comprising a plurality of nodes corresponding to the first plurality of components; and a plurality of links connecting the plurality of nodes, wherein each of the plurality of links represents at least a target measure of data communication and resource utilization of each pair of components of the first plurality of components; and performing, based on the knowledge graph, a management task of the drilling rig control system.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the first plurality of components comprises a plurality of sub-systems and a plurality of hardware components, wherein the plurality of sub-systems and the plurality of hardware components collectively form a first hierarchy of the drilling rig control system, wherein a plurality of software components embedded in the plurality of sub-systems collectively form a second hierarchy of the drilling rig control system, wherein each set of the plurality sets of software components is associated with an aspect of the drilling operation and installed on one of the plurality of sub-systems to control a portion of the plurality of the hardware components, wherein the knowledge graph comprises a overall drilling rig control system knowledge graph and a plurality of sub-system knowledge graph, wherein the overall drilling rig control system knowledge graph corresponds to the first hierarchy, and wherein the plurality of sub-system knowledge graph corresponds to the second hierarchy.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein performing the management task comprises: performing, based on the knowledge graph, a software commissioning task of the second hierarchy of the drilling rig control system.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein performing the management task further comprises: establishing, based on the knowledge graph, a data communication connection between a pair of components comprised in the second hierarchy of the second plurality of components.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein performing the management task comprises: obtaining, during the drilling operation and from the plurality of components, a pre-determined measure of data communication and resource utilization of a pair of components of the plurality of components; comparing, based on the knowledge graph, the pre-determined measure and a corresponding target measure of the pair of components to generate a result; and performing a diagnostic task of the drilling rig control system based on the result.
21. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein performing the management task comprises: obtaining, during the drilling operation and from the plurality of components, a health measure of the plurality of components; comparing, based on the knowledge graph, the obtained health measure and a corresponding target measure of the plurality of components to generate a result; and performing a diagnostic task of the drilling rig control system based on the result.
22. A method, comprising: detecting a plurality of components of a drilling rig control system to control a drilling operation; obtaining, during a machine learning training phase of the drilling operation at the wellsite and from the plurality of components, a pre-determined measure of data communication and resource utilization of each pair of components of the plurality of components; generating, using a machine learning algorithm, a knowledge graph comprising a plurality of nodes corresponding to the plurality of components; and a plurality of links connecting the plurality of nodes, wherein each of the plurality of links represents the pre-determined measure of data communication between a corresponding pair of components; and providing the knowledge graph to a drilling rig commissioning system or adaptive diagnostics system for performing a management or diagnostic task of the drilling rig control system.
23. The method of claim 22, further comprising: obtaining, during the drilling operation and from the plurality of components, a health measure of the plurality of components; monitoring, during the machine learning training phase, an expert user input that is used for diagnostics and maintenance of the first wellsite; comparing, during the machine learning training phase, the health measure and the expert user input to generate a correlation result; and providing the correlation result to the adaptive diagnostics system for performing the diagnostic task of the drilling rig control system.
24. The method of claim 23, further comprising: storing the correlation result in the knowledge graph, wherein the correlation result is provided via the knowledge graph to the adaptive diagnostics system.
25. The method of claim 23, further comprising: storing the correlation result in a knowledge cloud; and wherein the correlation result is provided via the knowledge cloud to the adaptive diagnostics system for performing the diagnostic task of the drilling rig control system.
26. The method of claim 23, generating the correlation result comprising: detecting, based on the health measure, a first occurrence of a failure within the plurality of components; and identifying a corrective action that is activated by the expert user input in response to the first occurrence of the failure, wherein the correlation result comprises the failure and the corrective action.
27. The method of claim 23, performing the diagnostic task of the drilling rig control system comprising: detecting, based on the health measure, a second occurrence of the failure within the plurality of components; retrieving, in response to the second occurrence of the failure and from the provided correlation result, the corrective action; and performing, by the adaptive diagnostics system, the retrieved corrective action.
28. The method of claim 26, wherein the failure corresponds to a component of the plurality of components that becomes unavailable, wherein the corrective action comprises a backup path within the plurality of components that is activated by the expert user input in response to the failure, wherein generating the correlation result further comprises adjusting the pre-determined measure of data communication associated with the backup path to generate an adjusted value of the pre-determined measure in the knowledge graph, and wherein the correlation result further comprises the adjusted value of the pre-determined measure.
29. A method, comprising: detecting a first plurality of components of a drilling rig control system to control a drilling operation; obtaining a knowledge graph comprising a plurality of nodes corresponding to the first plurality of components; and a plurality of links connecting the plurality of nodes, wherein each of the plurality of links represents at least a target measure of data communication and resource utilization of each pair of components of the first plurality of components; obtaining, during the drilling operation at the first wellsite and from the plurality of components, a health measure of the plurality of components; comparing, based on the knowledge graph, the obtained health measure and a corresponding target measure of the plurality of components to generate a result; and performing, at the first wellsite, a diagnostic task of the drilling rig control system based on the result.
</claims>
</document>
