<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/332,A63F13/46,A63F13/63,A63F13/80,A63F13/847,A63F9/06,G06F15/16,G06F16/28,G06F16/84,G06F16/951,G06F9/451,G06N5/04,G06Q50/00,G06Q50/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GANALILA
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOORTHY, JAISREE
NATARAJAN, SHREEDHAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
49384232
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ASSOCIATION MAPPING GAME
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for determining relationships between units are described. An illustrative system may include a semantic knowledge base having information regarding stored relationships between a plurality of units associated with content, a processor and a non-transitory, processor-readable storage medium in communication with the processor. The storage medium may include one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to direct a display to present the plurality of units to one or more users, receive an input from each of the one or more users, compare the input with the information in the semantic knowledge base and determine whether the input corresponds to a stored relationship and provide a notification to each of the one or more users based upon the determining. The input may correspond to a determination of a relationship between the plurality of units based upon the content of each unit by a user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A system comprising: a semantic knowledge base comprising information regarding one or more stored relationships between a plurality of first units; a processor; and a non-transitory, processor-readable storage medium in communication with the processor, wherein the non-transitory, processor-readable storage medium comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to: direct a display to present a portion of the plurality of units to one or more users; receive an input from each of the one or more users, wherein the input corresponds to a determination of a relationship between one or more first units and at least one of one or more first units and one or more second units based on a content of each unit; compare the input with the information in the semantic knowledge base; determine whether the input corresponds to a stored relationship; responsive to a determination that the input does correspond to a stored relationship, modify the stored relationship based on the input; and responsive to a determination that the input does not correspond to a stored relationship, store the relationship in the semantic knowledge base.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the non-transitory, processor-readable storage medium further comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to: present one or more queries to the one or more users; receive one or more responses to each of the one or more queries; and based on the one or more responses, select a plurality of the units.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein the non-transitory, processor-readable storage medium further comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to: present a voting request to each of the one or more users; receive, from each of the one or more users, a voting response, wherein the voting response confirms the input contains a valid relationship or denies the input contains a valid relationship; and update the semantic knowledge base with new information regarding the relationship between the plurality of units from the input based on the voting response.
24. The system of claim 21, wherein directing the display to present the plurality of units to one or more users further comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to direct the display to present, to each of the one or more users, a portion of the plurality of units.
25. The system of claim 21, wherein directing the display to present the plurality of units to one or more users further comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to direct the display to present the plurality of units to the one or more users based on one or more preferences selected by the user.
26. The system of claim 21, wherein the non-transitory, processor-readable storage medium further comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to weight the relationship.
27. The system of claim 21, wherein the content of each of the plurality of units comprises one or more of mined data, analyzed data, a keyword, a key phrase, user-generated content, free content, paid content, redeemable content, content obtained from internet sources, content obtained from non-internet sources, a number, a letter, a phrase, a sentence, a video clip, an audio clip, a clip art image, a photograph, an animation, a nested game, an exercise, an activity and an advertisement.
28. The system of claim 21, wherein the non-transitory, processor-readable storage medium further comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to: receive an input from each of the one or more users, wherein the input corresponds to a user determined connection strength of one or more stored relationships between the plurality of units; adjust the connection strength of the one or more stored relationships based on the user determined connection strength; and. store the adjusted connection strength in the semantic knowledge base.
29. The system of claim 21, wherein the non-transitory, processor-readable storage medium further comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to provide a notification to each of the one or more users.
30. The system of claim 21, further comprising communicating between the updated semantic knowledge and at least one of an information retrieval system, a content customization system, and recommendation system.
31. The system of claim 21, wherein each of the one or more first units and the one or more second units comprise one or more distinct sets, wherein each set contains a connected graph.
32. The system of claim 21, wherein the determined relationship comprises at least one of a supportive association, a associative association, a corresponding association, an antagonistic association, a successive association, a partnership association, and a meta association.
33. A method of determining one or more relationships between a plurality of first units, the method comprising: presenting, by a processor, a portion of the plurality of units to one or more users; receiving, by the processor, an input from each of the one or more users, wherein the input corresponds to a determination of a relationship between one or more first units and at least one of one or more first units and one or more second units based on a content of each unit; comparing, by the processor, the input with the information in a semantic knowledge base; determining, by the processor, whether the input corresponds to a stored relationship; responsive to determining the input does correspond to a stored relationship, modifying the stored relationship based on the input; and responsive to determining the input does not correspond to a stored relationship, storing the relationship in the semantic knowledge base.
34. The method of claim 33, further comprising: presenting, by the processor, one or more queries to the one or more users; receiving, by the processor, one or more responses to each of the one or more queries; and based on the one or more responses, selecting, by the processor, a plurality of the units.
35. The method of claim 33, further comprising: presenting, by the processor, a voting request to each of the one or more users; receiving, by the processor from each of the one or more users, a voting response, wherein the voting response confirms the input contains a valid relationship or denies the input contains a valid relationship; and updating, by the processor, the semantic knowledge base with new information regarding the relationship between the plurality of units from the input based on the voting response.
36. The method of claim 33, wherein presenting, by the processor, the plurality of units to the one or more users comprises presenting to each of the one or more users, by the processor, a portion of the plurality of units.
37. The method of claim 33, wherein presenting, by the processor, the plurality of units to the one or more users comprises presenting the plurality of units to the one or more users based on one or more preferences selected by the user.
38. The method of claim 33, further comprising weighting, by the processor, the relationship.
39. The method of claim 33, wherein the content of each of the plurality of units comprises one or more of mined data, analyzed data, a key word, a key phrase, user-generated content, free content, paid content, redeemable content, content obtained from internet sources, content obtained from non-internet sources, a number, a letter, a phrase, a sentence, a video clip, an audio clip, a clip art image, a photograph, an animation, a nested game, an exercise, an activity and an advertisement.
40. The method of claim 33, further comprising: receiving, by the processor, an input from each of the one or more users, wherein the input corresponds to a user determined connection strength of one or more stored relationships between the plurality of units; adjusting, by the processor, the connection strength of the one or more stored relationships based on the user determined connection strength; and storing, by the processor, the adjusted connection strength in the semantic knowledge base.
41. The method of claim 33, further comprising providing, by the processor, a notification to each of the one or more users.
42. The method of claim 33, further comprising communicating between the updated semantic knowledge and at least one of an information retrieval system, a content customization system, and recommendation system.
43. The method of claim 33, wherein each of the one or more first units and the one or more second units comprise one or more distinct sets, wherein each set contains a connected graph.
44. The method of claim 33, wherein the determined relationship comprises at least one of a supportive association, a associative association, a corresponding association, an antagonistic association, a successive association, a partnership association, and a meta association.
45. A method comprising: directing, by a processor, a display to present a portion of a plurality of units to one or more users; receiving, by the processor, an input from each of the one or more users, wherein the input corresponds to a user determined connection strength of the one or more stored relationships between the plurality of units; adjusting, by the processor, the connection strength of the one or more stored relationships based on the user determined connection strength; and storing, by the processor, the adjusted connection strength in the semantic knowledge base.
46. The method of claim 45, further comprising providing, by the processor, a notification to each of the one or more users.
47. The method of claim 45, further comprising: presenting, by the processor, one or more queries to the one or more users; receiving, by the processor, one or more responses to each of the one or more queries; and based on the one or more responses, selecting, by the processor, a plurality of units.
48. The method of claim 45, further comprising: presenting, by the processor, a voting request to each of the one or more users; receiving, by the processor, from each of the one or more users, a voting response, wherein the voting response confirms the input contains a valid relationship or denies the input contains a valid relationship; and updating, by the processor, the semantic knowledge base with new information regarding the relationship between the plurality of units from the input based on the voting response.
49. The method of claim 45, wherein directing the display to present the plurality of units to one or more users further comprises directing, by the processor, the display to present, to each of the one or more users, a portion of the plurality of units.
50. The method of claim 45, wherein directing the display to present the plurality of units to one or more users further comprises directing, by the processor, the display to present the plurality of units to the one or more users based on one or more preferences selected by the user.
51. The method of claim 45, further comprising weighting, by the processor, the relationship.
52. The method of claim 45, wherein the content of each of the plurality of units comprises one or more of mined data, analyzed data, a keyword, a key phrase, user-generated content, free content, paid content, redeemable content, content obtained from internet sources, content obtained from non-internet sources, a number, a letter, a phrase, a sentence, a video clip, an audio clip, a clip art image, a photograph, an animation, a nested game, an exercise, an activity and an advertisement.
53. The method of claim 45, further comprising communicating between the updated semantic knowledge and at least one of an information retrieval system, a content customization system, and recommendation system.
54. The method of claim 45, wherein each of the one or more first units and the one or more second units comprise one or more distinct sets, wherein each set contains a connected graph.
55. The method of claim 45, wherein the determined relationship comprises at least one of a supportive association, a associative association, a corresponding association, an antagonistic association, a successive association, a partnership association, and a meta association.
56. A system for evaluating one or more user's health comprising: a semantic knowledge base comprising information regarding one or more stored relationships between a plurality of units; a processor; and a non-transitory, processor-readable storage medium in communication with the processor, wherein the non-transitory, processor-readable storage medium comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to: direct a display to present a portion of the plurality of units to one or more users; receive an input from each of the one or more users, wherein the input corresponds to a determination of a relationship between one or more first units and at least one of the one or more first units and one or more second units based on a content of each unit; compare the input with the information in the semantic knowledge base; determine whether the input corresponds to a stored relationship; responsive to a determination that the input does not correspond to a stored relationship, store the relationship in the semantic knowledge base; responsive to a determination that the input does correspond to a stored relationship, modify the stored relationship based on the input; and evaluate the one or more user's health based on at least one of: the user history and the determined relationship.
57. The system of claim 56, wherein the evaluation of the one or more user's heath comprises evaluating a user's psychological condition.
58. The system of claim 56, wherein non-transitory, processor-readable storage medium further comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to: present a voting request to each of the one or more users; receive, from each of the one or more users, a voting response, wherein the voting response confirms the input contains a valid relationship or denies the input contains a valid relationship; and update the semantic knowledge base with new information regarding the relationship between the plurality of units from the input based on the voting response.
59. The system of claim 56, wherein the non-transitory, processor-readable storage medium further comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to: present one or more queries to the one or more users; receive one or more responses to each of the one or more queries; and based on the one or more responses, select a plurality of the units.
60. The system of claim 56, wherein the non-transitory, processor-readable storage medium further comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to direct the display to present, to each of the one or more users, a portion of the plurality of units.
61. The system of claim 56, wherein directing the display to present the plurality of units to one or more users further comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to direct the display to present the plurality of units to the one or more users based on one or more preferences selected by the user.
62. The system of claim 56, wherein the non-transitory, processor-readable storage medium further comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to weight the relationship.
63. The system of claim 56, wherein the content of each of the plurality of units comprises one or more of mined data, analyzed data, a keyword, a key phrase, user-generated content, free content, paid content, redeemable content, content obtained from internet sources, content obtained from non-internet sources, a number, a letter, a phrase, a sentence, a video clip, an audio clip, a clip art image, a photograph, an animation, a nested game, an exercise, an activity and an advertisement.
64. The system of claim 56, wherein the non-transitory, processor-readable storage medium further comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to: receive an input from each of the one or more users, wherein the input corresponds to a user determined connection strength of one or more stored relationships between the plurality of units; adjust the connection strength of the one or more stored relationships based on the user determined connection strength; and. store the adjusted connection strength in the semantic knowledge base.
65. The system of claim 56, wherein the non-transitory, processor-readable storage medium further comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to provide a notification to each of the one or more users.
66. The system of claim 56, further comprising communicating between the updated semantic knowledge and at least one of an information retrieval system, a content customization system, and recommendation system.
67. The system of claim 56, wherein each of the one or more first units and the one or more second units comprise one or more distinct sets, wherein each set contains a connected graph.
68. The system of claim 56, wherein the determined relationship comprises at least one of a supportive association, a associative association, a corresponding association, an antagonistic association, a successive association, a partnership association, and a meta association.
</claims>
</document>
