<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B1/00,H04L27/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICRON TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHRITZ, JEREMY
CUMMINS, JAIME
LUO, FALONG
SCHMITZ, TAMARA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62192960
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WIRELESS DEVICES AND SYSTEMS INCLUDING EXAMPLES OF MIXING INPUT DATA WITH COEFFICIENT DATA
</title>

<abstract>
Examples described herein include systems and methods which include wireless devices and systems with examples of mixing input data with coefficient data. For example, a computing system with processing units may mix the input data for a transmission in a radio frequency (RF) wireless domain with the coefficient data to generate output data that is representative of the transmission being processed according to the wireless protocol in the RF wireless domain. A computing device may be trained to generate coefficient data based on the operations of a wireless transceiver such that mixing input data using the coefficient data generates an approximation of the output data, as if it were processed by the wireless transceiver. Examples of systems and methods described herein may facilitate the processing of data for 5G wireless communications in a power-efficient and time-efficient manner.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: at least one processing unit; and control instructions which, when executed by the at least one processing unit, is configured to cause the system to perform operations comprising: implementing a wireless receiver processing mode based on a processing mode selection corresponding to the wireless receiver processing mode; mixing input data at the at least one processing unit using a plurality of coefficients associated with the wireless receiver processing mode, wherein mixing the input data comprises calculating, at a multiplication/accumulation processing unit, the input data with a portion of the plurality of coefficients to generate a processing result; providing output data based partly on the processing result, the output data representative of a portion of the input data being processed in a wireless receiver.
2. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: obtaining the input data via a radio frequency (RF) antenna.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the RF antenna is configured to radiate at a radio frequency associated with a 5G wireless protocol.
4. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: obtaining, from at least a portion of the plurality of memory look-up units, the plurality of coefficients based on the implemented wireless receiver processing mode.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of coefficients corresponds to data generated by the system when trained according to unsupervised learning for the implemented wireless receiver processing mode.
6. The system of claim 5, the operations further comprising: monitoring output of a specifically-designed hardware unit to learn which coefficient data minimizes an error of the at least one processing unit of the system implementing the wireless receiver processing mode.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the output data is an approximation of a specially-designed hardware unit implementing operations of a wireless receiver.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the operations of the wireless receiver comprise: mixing the input data that is modulated with a carrier signal to generate down-converted input data; converting the down-converted input data to a time domain with a fast Fourier transform (FFT) to generate time-domain input data; demapping the time-domain input data according to a demodulation mapping to generate demodulated input data; deinterleaving the demodulated input data to generate de-interleaved input data; and decoding the de-interleaved input data according to a block decoding scheme to generate the output data.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of coefficients corresponds to data generated by the system when trained according to supervised learning for the implemented wireless receiver processing mode.
10. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: configuring the at least one processing unit to select the plurality of coefficients based on the selected wireless receiver processing mode.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of coefficients corresponds to a non-linear mapping representative of processing the input data in a wireless receiver designed to operate in accordance with a 5G wireless protocol.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein calculating, at the multiplication/accumulation processing unit, the input data with the portion of the plurality of coefficients to generate the processing result comprises: multiplying a portion of the input data with at least one coefficient of the plurality of coefficients to generate a plurality of coefficient multiplication results; and accumulating the plurality of coefficient multiplication results to generate the processing result.
13. A method, comprising: implementing, at a processing unit comprising a plurality of multiplication/accumulation units, a wireless receiver processing mode based on a processing mode selection corresponding to the wireless receiver processing mode; mixing input data at the processing unit using a plurality of coefficients associated with the wireless receiver processing mode, wherein mixing the input data comprises calculating, at least a portion of the plurality of multiplication/accumulation processing units, the input data with a portion of the plurality of coefficients to generate a processing result; providing output data based partly on the processing result, the output data representative of a portion of the input data being processed in a wireless receiver.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: obtaining the input data via a radio frequency (RF) antenna.
15. The method of claim 13, further comprising: obtaining, from a memory or cloud-computing database, the plurality of coefficients based on the implemented wireless receiver processing mode,
16. The method of claim 13, further comprising: configuring the processing unit, via a plurality of memory-look up units of the processing unit, to select the plurality of coefficients based on the selected wireless receiver processing mode.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the plurality of coefficients corresponds to data trained according to supervised learning for the implemented wireless receiver processing mode.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the plurality of coefficients corresponds to data generated trained according to unsupervised learning for the implemented wireless receiver processing mode.
19. A wireless device comprising: a radio frequency (RF) antenna configured to receive an RF wireless transmission comprising input data; at least one processing unit comprising a plurality of multiplication/accumulation processing units and a plurality of memory look-up units; and non-transitory computer readable media encoded with executable instructions which, when executed by the at least one processing unit, is configured to cause the wireless device to perform operations comprising: implementing a wireless receiver processing mode based on a processing mode selection corresponding to the wireless receiver processing mode; mixing input data at the at least one processing unit using the plurality of coefficients, wherein mixing the input data comprises: obtaining, from at least a portion of the plurality of memory look-up units, the plurality of coefficients based on the implemented wireless receiver processing mode; and calculating, at at least a portion of the multiplication/accumulation processing units, the input data with a portion of the plurality of coefficients to generate a plurality of processing results; providing, to a mobile application of the wireless device, output data based partly on the plurality of processing results.
20. The wireless device of claim 19, wherein the wireless device corresponds to one of a desktop device, a laptop device, a cellular phone device, a tablet device, an appliance device, an automobile communications device, or combinations thereof.
21. The wireless device of claim 19, the operations further comprising: obtaining, from the mobile application of the wireless device, the processing mode selection corresponding to the wireless receiver processing mode.
22. The wireless device of claim 19, wherein the processing mode selection is indicative of an aspect of a 5G wireless protocol, wherein the aspect of the 5G wireless protocol comprises a demodulation mapping of GFDM, FBMC, UFMC, DFDM, SCMA, NOMA, MUSA, or FTN.
23. The wireless device of claim 19, wherein the processing mode selection is indicative of a spatial stream for a Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (MIMO) implementation of the wireless receiver processing mode.
</claims>
</document>
