<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/02,G06F16/901,H04W4/44,H04W4/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOYOTA MOTOR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALTINTAS, ONUR
HIGUCHI, TAKAMASA
HOH, BAIK
NAKANISHI, TORU
OGUCHI, KENTARO
UCAR, SEYHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69526007
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Anomaly Mapping by Vehicular Micro Clouds
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure includes embodiments for generating improved anomaly maps. In some embodiments, a method for a connected vehicle includes detecting an occurrence of an anomaly in a roadway environment based on sensor data describing the roadway environment. The method includes creating, by the connected vehicle, an anomaly map that describes the anomaly. The method includes modifying an operation of a communication unit of the connected vehicle to receive one or more other anomaly maps describing the anomaly from one or more cooperation endpoints in the roadway environment. The method includes generating an updated anomaly map based on the anomaly map created by the connected vehicle and the one or more other anomaly maps created by the one or more cooperation endpoints so that an accuracy of the updated anomaly map is improved.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for a connected vehicle, comprising: detecting an occurrence of an anomaly in a roadway environment based on sensor data describing the roadway environment; creating, by the connected vehicle, an anomaly map that describes the anomaly; modifying an operation of a communication unit of the connected vehicle to receive one or more other anomaly maps describing the anomaly from one or more cooperation endpoints in the roadway environment; and generating an updated anomaly map based on the anomaly map created by the connected vehicle and the one or more other anomaly maps created by the one or more cooperation endpoints so that an accuracy of the updated anomaly map is improved.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: responsive to the occurrence of the anomaly, modifying the operation of the communication unit of the connected vehicle to instruct a formation of a vehicular micro cloud; and modifying the operation of the communication unit to share anomaly map information in the vehicular micro cloud so that the one or more other anomaly maps are received from the one or more cooperation endpoints, wherein each of the one or more cooperation endpoints is a cloud member or a cloud guest of the vehicular micro cloud that cooperates with the connected vehicle to generate the updated anomaly map.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein responsive to the occurrence of the anomaly, modifying the operation of the communication unit of the connected vehicle to instruct the formation of the vehicular micro cloud comprises: generating an instruction to form the vehicular micro cloud responsive to the occurrence of the anomaly; and modifying one or more operation elements of the communication unit to transmit the instruction to a server, wherein the instruction causes the server to form the vehicular micro cloud that includes the connected vehicle and one or more nearby vehicles approximate to the anomaly as cloud members of the vehicular micro cloud.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein responsive to the occurrence of the anomaly, modifying the operation of the communication unit of the connected vehicle to instruct the formation of the vehicular micro cloud comprises: generating an instruction to form the vehicular micro cloud responsive to the occurrence of the anomaly; and responsive to receiving the instruction at the communication unit, modifying one or more operation elements of the communication unit to communicate with one or more nearby vehicles approximate to the anomaly so that the one or more nearby vehicles are invited by the connected vehicle to join the vehicular micro cloud.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein modifying the operation of the communication unit to share the anomaly map information in the vehicular micro cloud comprises: modifying one or more operation elements of the communication unit to transmit the anomaly map to one or more other cloud members of the vehicular micro cloud; and modifying the one or more operation elements of the communication unit to receive the one or more other anomaly maps from the one or more cooperation endpoints.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprising: determining whether the updated anomaly map satisfies a simulation criterion; responsive to the updated anomaly map satisfying the simulation criterion, performing a simulation for the anomaly to generate a simulation result based on the updated anomaly map; and modifying the updated anomaly map based on the simulation result.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein a satisfaction of the simulation criterion by the updated anomaly map includes one or more of: a total number of anomaly maps used to generate the updated anomaly map satisfies a map threshold; a total number of views of the anomaly in the updated anomaly map satisfies a view threshold; a total number of actions of the anomaly in the updated anomaly map satisfies an action threshold; a time window of the actions of the anomaly in the updated anomaly map satisfies a time-window threshold; and a total number of remedy actions reacted against the anomaly satisfies a reaction threshold.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the simulation result includes one or more of: a predicted future behavior of the anomaly; an impact of the anomaly on the roadway environment; a simulation of different views of surroundings around the anomaly; a simulation of one or more views of the anomaly in various perspectives; a simulation of one or more actions of the anomaly in various perspectives or in a period of time; and a simulation of one or more remedy actions against the anomaly.
9. The method of claim 6, further comprising: modifying the operation of the communication unit to share updated anomaly map information in the vehicular micro cloud, including: modifying one or more operation elements of the communication unit to send the updated anomaly map to one or more other cloud members of the vehicular micro cloud; and modifying the one or more operation elements of the communication unit to receive one or more other updated anomaly maps from the one or more other cloud members of the vehicular micro cloud; arriving at a consensus decision with the one or more other cloud members about the simulation result for the anomaly based on the updated anomaly map and the one or more other updated anomaly maps; modifying the updated anomaly map further based on the consensus decision; and uploading the updated anomaly map to a server using a Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) wireless message.
10. The method of claim 6, further comprising: responsive to the updated anomaly map not satisfying the simulation criterion: determining one or more additional cooperation endpoints in the roadway environment, and coordinating one or more sensors, one or more computing resources or a combination thereof of each additional cooperation endpoint to focus on the anomaly so that one or more additional anomaly maps are generated by the one or more additional cooperation endpoints; modifying the operation of the communication unit to receive the one or more additional anomaly maps from the one or more additional cooperation endpoints; and generating the updated anomaly map further based on the one or more additional anomaly maps.
11. The method of claim 2, wherein the vehicular micro cloud is a stationary vehicular micro cloud formed at a location of the anomaly.
12. The method of claim 2, wherein the vehicular micro cloud is a mobile vehicular micro cloud formed at a current location of the anomaly or upcoming consecutive locations of the anomaly.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the one or more cooperation endpoints based on one or more anomaly mapping policies; and coordinating one or more sensors, one or more computing resources or a combination thereof of each cooperation endpoint to focus on the anomaly so that the one or more other anomaly maps are generated by the one or more cooperation endpoints.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more cooperation endpoints are one or more of: an endpoint that is located in a region of interest associated with the anomaly; an endpoint that has been in the region of interest for a period of time that exceeds a time threshold; an endpoint that is expected to remain in the region of interest for a period of time that exceeds the time threshold; and an endpoint with a known trajectory, a known timetable or a combination thereof.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the anomaly includes one or more of: a human anomaly in the roadway environment; a data anomaly; a road surface anomaly; and a traffic anomaly.
16. A system of a connected vehicle, comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory memory storing computer code which, when executed by the processor, causes the processor to: detect an occurrence of an anomaly in a roadway environment based on sensor data describing the roadway environment; create, by the connected vehicle, an anomaly map that describes the anomaly; modify an operation of a communication unit of the connected vehicle to receive one or more other anomaly maps describing the anomaly from one or more cooperation endpoints in the roadway environment; and generate an updated anomaly map based on the anomaly map created by the connected vehicle and the one or more other anomaly maps created by the one or more cooperation endpoints so that an accuracy of the updated anomaly map is improved.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the computer code, when executed by the processor, causes the processor further to: responsive to the occurrence of the anomaly, modify the operation of the communication unit of the connected vehicle to instruct a formation of a vehicular micro cloud; and modify the operation of the communication unit to share anomaly map information in the vehicular micro cloud so that the one or more other anomaly maps are received from the one or more cooperation endpoints, wherein each of the one or more cooperation endpoints is a cloud member or a cloud guest of the vehicular micro cloud that cooperates with the connected vehicle to generate the updated anomaly map.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the computer code, when executed by the processor, causes the processor further to: determine whether the updated anomaly map satisfies a simulation criterion; responsive to the updated anomaly map satisfying the simulation criterion, perform a simulation for the anomaly to generate a simulation result based on the updated anomaly map; and modify the updated anomaly map based on the simulation result.
19. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory memory storing computer-executable code that, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to: detect an occurrence of an anomaly in a roadway environment based on sensor data describing the roadway environment; create, by a connected vehicle, an anomaly map that describes the anomaly; modify an operation of a communication unit of the connected vehicle to receive one or more other anomaly maps describing the anomaly from one or more cooperation endpoints in the roadway environment; and generate an updated anomaly map based on the anomaly map created by the connected vehicle and the one or more other anomaly maps created by the one or more cooperation endpoints so that an accuracy of the updated anomaly map is improved.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the computer-executable code, when executed by the processor, causes the processor further to: responsive to the occurrence of the anomaly, modify the operation of the communication unit of the connected vehicle to instruct a formation of a vehicular micro cloud; and modify the operation of the communication unit to share anomaly map information in the vehicular micro cloud so that the one or more other anomaly maps are received from the one or more cooperation endpoints, wherein each of the one or more cooperation endpoints is a cloud member or a cloud guest of the vehicular micro cloud that cooperates with the connected vehicle to generate the updated anomaly map.
</claims>
</document>
