<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/20,G10L15/22,G10L15/30,G10L21/0232,G10L25/84
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, BONGKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67807035
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT VOICE RECOGNIZING METHOD, VOICE RECOGNIZING APPARATUS, INTELLIGENT COMPUTING DEVICE AND SERVER
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are an intelligent voice recognition method, a voice recognition device, and an intelligent computing device. A method of intelligently recognizing a voice in a voice recognition device includes obtaining an ambient noise signal from the microphone detection signal when a voice is detected from the microphone detection signal; updating a previously learned noise cancellation model based on the ambient noise; and removing the ambient noise signal from the microphone detection signal. Therefore, a voice recognition performance of the voice recognition device can be maximized. At least one of the voice recognition device, the intelligent computing device and the server of the present disclosure may be associated with an Artificial Intelligence module, a drone (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, UAV), robot, Augmented Reality (AR) device, virtual reality (VR) device and a device related to the 5G service.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of intelligently recognizing a voice in a voice recognition device, the method comprising: obtaining a microphone detection signal detected using at least one microphone of the voice recognition device; obtaining an ambient noise signal from the microphone detection signal when a voice signal is detected from the microphone detection signal; updating a previously learned noise cancellation model based on the ambient noise; and removing the ambient noise signal from the microphone detection signal using the updated noise cancellation model.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the obtaining of an ambient noise signal comprises obtaining a signal of a non-voice segment other than a voice segment in which the voice is detected among an entire segment of the microphone detection signal as the ambient noise signal.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the updating of a previously learned noise cancellation model comprises updating the noise cancellation model in every predetermined period.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the period is changed based on a capacity in which the ambient noise signal is stored in a memory of the voice recognition device.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the obtaining of an ambient noise signal comprises: inputting the microphone detection signal to a previously learned voice detection model; determining whether the voice is detected from the microphone detection signal based on an output value of the voice detection model; and obtaining the ambient noise signal from the microphone detection signal when the voice is detected from the microphone detection signal.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the noise cancellation model is previously learned based on another noise signal of a predetermined space and another voice signal of a predetermined another user, wherein the updating of a previously learned noise cancellation model comprises updating the previously learned noise cancellation model using the another voice signal and the ambient noise signal.
7. The method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving Downlink Control Information (DCI) used for scheduling transmission of the microphone detection signal from a network; and transmitting the microphone detection signal to the network based on the DCI.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: performing an initial access procedure to the network based on a synchronization signal block (SSB); and transmitting the microphone detection signal to the network through a Physical Uplink Shared Channel (PUSCH), wherein a DM-RS of the PUSCH and the SSB is quasi co-located (QCL) for QCL type D.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: controlling a transceiver to transmit the microphone detection signal to an AI processor included in the network; and controlling the transceiver to receive AI processed information from the AI processor, wherein the AI processed information comprises data related to updating of the noise cancellation model performed based on the microphone detection signal.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the data related to updating of the noise cancellation model comprise the updated noise cancellation model.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the data related to updating of the noise cancellation model comprise updated model parameters of the noise cancellation model.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the data related to updating of the noise cancellation model comprise the ambient noise signal.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the data related to updating of the noise cancellation model comprise a microphone detection signal in which the ambient noise signal is removed.
14. The method of claim 2, further comprising: controlling a transceiver to transmit the ambient noise signal to an AI processor included in a network; and controlling the transceiver to receive AI processed information from the AI processor, wherein the AI processed information comprises data related to updating of the noise cancellation model performed based on the ambient noise signal.
15. A voice recognition device for intelligently recognizing a voice, the voice recognition device comprising: a transceiver for transmitting and receiving data to and from a network; at least one microphone; and a processor for obtaining a detection signal of the microphone, obtaining an ambient noise signal from the microphone detection signal when a voice signal is detected from the microphone detection signal, updating a previously learned noise cancellation model based on the ambient noise signal, and removing the ambient noise signal from the microphone detection signal using the updated noise cancellation model.
16. The voice recognition device of claim 15, wherein the processor obtains a signal of a non-voice segment other than a voice segment in which the voice is detected among an entire segment of the microphone detection signal as the ambient noise signal.
17. The voice recognition device of claim 16, wherein the processor updates the noise cancellation model in every predetermined period.
18. The voice recognition device of claim 17, wherein the period is changed based on a capacity in which the ambient noise signal is stored in a memory of the voice recognition device.
19. The voice recognition device of claim 16, wherein the processor is configured to: input the microphone detection signal to a previously learned voice detection model, determine whether the voice is detected from the microphone detection signal based on an output value of the voice detection model, and obtain the ambient noise signal from the microphone detection signal when the voice is detected from the microphone detection signal.
20. The voice recognition device of claim 16, wherein the noise cancellation model is previously learned based on another noise signal in a predetermined space and another voice signal of a predetermined another user, wherein the processor updates the previously learned noise cancellation model using the another voice signal and the ambient noise signal.
</claims>
</document>
