<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/79,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
HEUSER, CHRISTOPHER WALLACE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71465405
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTING DISENGAGEMENT AND SELECTIVELY DELIVERING ENGAGEMENT CONTENT
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to systems, methods, and computer-readable media to predict disengagement of a user from a gaming application and generate a recommendation for delivery to the user based on the predicted disengagement. For example, systems disclosed herein may train, receive, or otherwise obtain a disengagement prediction model trained to predict whether a user will disengage from a gaming application within a predetermined period of time. Systems described herein can further collect gaming data including system platform data and publisher-specific data to provide to the prediction model for use in determining a disengagement metric for the user. The systems disclosed herein may further generate a recommendation based on the disengagement metric and deliver the recommendation to a client device associated with the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: identifying a disengagement prediction model trained to determine a disengagement metric for a given user based on gaming data associated with the given user; receiving a first set of gaming data associated with a first user; applying the disengagement model to the first set of gaming data to determine a disengagement metric for the first user in connection with a first gaming application; generating a recommendation for the first user based on the disengagement metric for the first user; and providing the recommendation to the first user via a client device of the first user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the gaming data comprises publisher gaming data including information collected by one or more publisher systems associated with one or more publishers of the gaming data, and wherein receiving the first set of gaming data associated with the first user comprises collecting publisher data associated with the first user collected by the one or more publisher systems.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the gaming data comprises platform gaming data including information collected by a gaming platform service, and wherein receiving the first set of gaming data associated with the first user comprises collecting platform gaming data collected by the gaming platform service.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the first set of gaming data associated with the first user comprises: collecting a first subset of gaming data associated with the first user including platform gaming data collected by the gaming platform service; and collecting a second subset of gaming data associated with the first user including publisher gaming data collected by the one or more publisher systems.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the disengagement metric comprises one or more of: a prediction that the first user will disengage temporarily from the first gaming application; a prediction that the first user will disengage permanently from the first gaming application; a prediction that the first user will both temporarily and permanently disengage from the first gaming application; or a prediction of a time at which the first user will either temporarily or permanently disengage from the first gaming application.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the disengagement metric includes a classification of the first user associated with a likelihood that the first user will disengage prior to completing a current gaming session or permanently disengage from the first gaming application within a predetermined period of time.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first set of gaming data comprises publisher gaming data including one or more of: gameplay data including in-game statistics for the first user in connection with the first gaming application; or publisher social data including information associated with co-users of the first gaming application that have connected with the first user via the first gaming application.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first set of gaming data comprises platform gaming data, wherein the platform gaming data comprises publisher-agnostic data including one or more of: system social data including information associated with identified co-users connected to the first user via a platform of the gaming platform service; system usage statistics including timing data associated with a duration and frequency that the first user has engaged with the first gaming application over a historical period of time; or system profile data including user identification information associated with the first user and maintained by the gaming platform service.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying a time for delivery of the recommendation to the first user of the client device based on a timing that the disengagement metric indicates that the first user is predicted to disengage from the first gaming application, wherein providing the recommendation to the first user comprises delivering the recommendation at the identified time and prior to when the first user is predicted to disengage.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the client device comprises a mobile device independent from one or more gaming device on which gaming content was engaged by the first user.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the recommendation includes one or more of: an in-game offer for the first gaming application; an in-game notification of one or more co-users of a gaming platform service connected with the first user currently engaged with a second gaming application; or one or more delayed notifications to provide to the first user via an interface of the gaming platform service.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the recommendation includes one or more of: a recommendation associated with a second gaming application corresponding to a same publisher or different publisher as the first gaming application; or an offer to receive one or more in-game purchases associated with the first gaming application or the second gaming application at a discount.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the recommendation includes one or more of: an identification of one or more co-users of a gaming platform service connected with the first user that have recently engaged a second gaming application; or an identification that the one or more co-users that have recently disengaged from the first gaming application.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the disengagement prediction model comprises: receiving gaming data for a plurality of training users, wherein the gaming data for the plurality of training users includes a combination of publisher gaming data including information collected by a plurality of publisher systems and platform gaming data including information collected by a gaming platform service; and training the disengagement prediction model based on the gaming data for the plurality of training users to determine one or more disengagement metrics for the given user based on gaming data associated with the given user.
15. A system, comprising: one or more processors; a memory in electronic communication with the one or more processors; and instructions stored in the memory, the instructions being executable by the one or more processors to: identify a disengagement prediction model trained to determine a disengagement metric for a given user based on gaming data associated with at least one of the given user or at least one of a given first gaming application; receive a first set of gaming data associated with a first user; apply the disengagement model to the first set of gaming data to determine a disengagement metric for the first user in connection with a first gaming application; generate a recommendation for the first user based on the disengagement metric for the first user; and provide the recommendation to the first user via a client device of the first user.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the disengagement metric includes one or more of: a prediction that the first user will disengage temporarily from the first gaming application; a prediction that the first user will disengage permanently from the first gaming application; a prediction that the first user will both temporarily and permanently disengage from the first gaming application; or a prediction of a time at which the first user with either temporarily or permanently disengage from the first gaming application.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the first set of gaming data comprises: gameplay data including in-game statistics for the first user in connection with the first gaming application; and system social data including information associated with identified co-users connected to the user via a platform of a gaming platform service.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the client device comprises a gaming device of the first user, and wherein the system further comprises instructions stored on the memory and executable by the one or more processors to: generate an additional recommendation for the first user based on the disengagement metric for the first user; and provide the additional recommendation to the first user via a mobile device of the first user.
19. A computer-readable medium storing instructions thereon that, when executed by one or more processors, causes a computing device to: identify a disengagement prediction model trained to determine a disengagement metric for a given user based on gaming data associated with the given user; receive a first set of gaming data associated with a first user; apply the disengagement model to the first set of gaming data to determine a disengagement metric for the first user in connection with a first gaming application; generate a recommendation for the first user based on the disengagement metric for the first user; and provide the recommendation to the first user via a client device of the first user.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the disengagement prediction model comprises a machine learning model trained to generate an output including one or multiple disengagement metrics based on a predicted likelihood that the given user will disengage from a gaming application within a predetermined period of time.
</claims>
</document>
