<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COGNITIVE SCALE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SANCHEZ, MATTHEW
GHOSH, JOYDEEP
Henderson, Jessica
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72423058
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Augmented Intelligence Explainability with Recourse
</title>

<abstract>
A method, system and computer-readable storage medium for performing a cognitive information processing operation. The cognitive information processing operation includes: receiving data from a plurality of data sources; processing the data from the plurality of data sources to provide cognitively processed insights via an augmented intelligence system, the augmented intelligence system executing on a hardware processor of an information processing system, the augmented intelligence system and the information processing system providing a cognitive computing function; performing an explainability with recourse operation, the explainability with recourse operation providing an assurance explanation regarding the cognitive computing function; and, providing the cognitively processed insights to a destination, the destination comprising a cognitive application, the cognitive application enabling a user to interact with the cognitive insights.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implementable method for cognitive information processing, comprising: receiving data from a plurality of data sources; processing the data from the plurality of data sources to provide cognitively processed insights via an augmented intelligence system, the augmented intelligence system executing on a hardware processor of an information processing system, the augmented intelligence system and the information processing system providing a cognitive computing function; performing an explainability with recourse operation, the explainability with recourse operation providing an assurance explanation regarding the cognitive computing function; and, providing the cognitively processed insights to a destination, the destination comprising a cognitive application, the cognitive application enabling a user to interact with the cognitive insights.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the explainability with recourse operation is performed via an explainability engine, the explainability engine being implemented within the augmented intelligence system, the augmented intelligence system comprising a cognitive process foundation.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein: the cognitive process foundation performs an augmented intelligence assurance operation.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein: the explainability with recourse operation identifies a subject data point and an optimal counterfactual for a corresponding cognitive computing function.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein: the explainability with recourse operation uses the optimal counterfactual to provide recourse for the cognitive computing function.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein: the recourse for the cognitive computing function is provided as a cognitive insight.
7. A system comprising: a hardware processor; a data bus coupled to the hardware processor; and a non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium embodying computer program code, the non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium being coupled to the data bus, the computer program code interacting with a plurality of computer operations and comprising instructions executable by the hardware processor and configured for: receiving data from a plurality of data sources; processing the data from the plurality of data sources to provide cognitively processed insights via an augmented intelligence system, the augmented intelligence system executing on a hardware processor of an information processing system, the augmented intelligence system and the information processing system providing a cognitive computing function; performing an explainability with recourse operation, the explainability with recourse operation providing an assurance explanation regarding the cognitive computing function; and, providing the cognitively processed insights to a destination, the destination comprising a cognitive application, the cognitive application enabling a user to interact with the cognitive insights.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein: the explainability with recourse operation is performed via an explainability engine, the explainability engine being implemented within the augmented intelligence system, the augmented intelligence system comprising a cognitive process foundation.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein: the cognitive process foundation performs an augmented intelligence assurance operation.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein: the explainability with recourse operation identifies a subject data point and an optimal counterfactual for a corresponding cognitive computing function.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein: the explainability with recourse operation uses the optimal counterfactual to provide recourse for the cognitive computing function.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein: the recourse for the cognitive computing function is provided as a cognitive insight.
13. A non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium embodying computer program code, the computer program code comprising computer executable instructions configured for: receiving data from a plurality of data sources; processing the data from the plurality of data sources to provide cognitively processed insights via an augmented intelligence system, the augmented intelligence system executing on a hardware processor of an information processing system, the augmented intelligence system and the information processing system providing a cognitive computing function; performing an explainability with recourse operation, the explainability with recourse operation providing an assurance explanation regarding the cognitive computing function; and, providing the cognitively processed insights to a destination, the destination comprising a cognitive application, the cognitive application enabling a user to interact with the cognitive insights.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the explainability with recourse operation is performed via an explainability engine, the explainability engine being implemented within the augmented intelligence system, the augmented intelligence system comprising a cognitive process foundation.
15. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein: the cognitive process foundation performs an augmented intelligence assurance operation.
16. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the explainability with recourse operation identifies a subject data point and an optimal counterfactual for a corresponding cognitive computing function.
17. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein: the explainability with recourse operation uses the optimal counterfactual to provide recourse for the cognitive computing function.
18. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the recourse for the cognitive computing function is provided as a cognitive insight.
19. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the computer executable instructions are deployable to a client system from a server system at a remote location.
20. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the computer executable instructions are provided by a service provider to a user on an on-demand basis.
</claims>
</document>
