<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INNOPLEXUS
</assignee>

<inventors>
VERMA, VIVEK
AGARWAL, VATSAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72607634
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD TO IDENTIFY ENTITY OF DATA
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is system comprising data processing arrangement including processors configured to receive sentences from unlabeled training data set; tokenize, using tokenizer module, sentences to obtain tokens; generate character level features for character of tokens of sentences; generate token level feature for each token of the sentences, wherein token level feature of token in sentence is identified using token coordinates of token and token coordinates of tokens neighboring token in sentence; train artificial neural network adapted to identify entities in sentences to determine first trend set, wherein training is based on received sentences, character level features for each character of tokens of sentences and token level feature for tokens of sentences; train the artificial neural network on set of labelled data to determine second trend set; identify, using identifier module, entity in text content, wherein identifier module uses first trend set and second trend set determined by artificial neural network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a data processing arrangement including one or more processors configured to: receive one or more sentences from unlabeled training data set; tokenize, using a tokenizer module, the one or more sentences to obtain a plurality of tokens; generate a character level features for each character of the plurality of tokens of the one or more sentences, wherein the character level features of each of the character is identified based on demographics of each of the tokens; generate a token level feature for each token of the plurality of tokens of the one or more sentences, wherein the token level feature of a given token in a given sentence is identified using token coordinates of the given token and token coordinates of tokens neighboring the given token in the given sentence; train an artificial neural network adapted to identify one or more entities in sentences to determine a first trend set, wherein the training is based on the received one or more sentences, the character level features for each character of the plurality of tokens of the one or more sentences and the token level feature for each token of the plurality of tokens of the one or more sentences; train the artificial neural network on a set of labelled data to determine a second trend set; identify, using an identifier module, an entity in a text content, wherein the identifier module uses the first trend set and the second trend set determined by the artificial neural network.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further includes a lexicon ontology represented into a multi-dimensional hierarchical space.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the token coordinates of the plurality of tokens are coordinates in the multi-dimensional hierarchical space.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein first trend set comprises one or more distributions of tokens in the one or more sentences of unlabeled training data set.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the second trend set comprises probability score for each of the plurality of tokens of the one or more sentences.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the training the artificial neural network involves semi-supervised training and transfer learning approach.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the artificial neural network is a recurrent neural network.
8. A method implemented via a system comprising: a data processing arrangement including one or more processors configured to: receive one or more sentences from unlabeled training data set; tokenize, using a tokenizes module, the one or more sentences to obtain a plurality of tokens; generate a character level features for each character of the plurality of tokens of the one or more sentences, wherein the character level features of each of the character is identified based on demographics of each of the tokens; generate a token level feature for each token of the plurality of tokens of the one or more sentences, wherein the token level feature of a given token in a given sentence is identified using token coordinates of the given token and token coordinates of tokens neighboring the given token in the given sentence; train an artificial neural network adapted to identify one or more entities in sentences to determine a first trend set, wherein the training is based on the received one or more sentences, the character level features for each character of the plurality of tokens of the one or more sentences and the token level feature for each token of the plurality of tokens of the one or more sentences; train the artificial neural network on a set of labelled data to determine a second trend set; identify, using an identifier module, an entity in a text content, wherein the identifier module uses the first trend set and the second trend set determined by the artificial neural network.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the method further includes a lexicon ontology represented into a multi-dimensional hierarchical space.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the token coordinates of the plurality of tokens are coordinates in the multi-dimensional hierarchical space.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein first trend set comprises one or more distributions of tokens in the one or more sentences of unlabeled training data set.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the second trend set comprises probability score for each of the plurality of tokens of the one or more sentences.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the training the artificial neural network involves semi-supervised training and transfer learning approach.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the artificial neural network is a recurrent neural network.
15. A computer readable medium containing program instructions for execution on a computer system, which when executed by a computer, cause the computer to perform a method, wherein the method is implemented via a system comprising: a data processing arrangement including one or more processors configured to: receive one or more sentences from unlabeled training data set; tokenize, using a tokenizer module, the one or more sentences to obtain a plurality of tokens; generate a character level features for each character of the plurality of tokens of the one or more sentences, wherein the character level features of each of the character is identified based on demographics of each of the tokens; generate a token level feature for each token of the plurality of tokens of the one or more sentences, wherein the token level feature of a given token in a given sentence is identified using token coordinates of the given token and token coordinates of tokens neighboring the given token in the given sentence; train an artificial neural network adapted to identify one or more entities in sentences to determine a first trend set, wherein the training is based on the received one or more sentences, the character level features for each character of the plurality of tokens of the one or more sentences and the token level feature for each token of the plurality of tokens of the one or more sentences; train the artificial neural network on a set of labelled data to determine a second trend set; identify, using an identifier module, an entity in a text content, wherein the identifier module uses the first trend set and the second trend set determined by the artificial neural network.
</claims>
</document>
