<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06N3/00,G06Q30/00,H04L12/58,H04M3/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
N3
</assignee>

<inventors>
Copeland, Shannon
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73549767
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ASYNCHRONOUS MULTI-DIMENSIONAL PLATFORM FOR CUSTOMER AND TELE-AGENT COMMUNICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Customer relationship management ('CRM') implemented in a computer system, including administering, by a CRM application of the computer system, with one or more customer representative on behalf of one or more tele-agents asynchronously across one or more platform types, as structure of computer memory of the computer system, a communications session comprising one or more communications contacts with the customer representative in support of the communications session. Digital transcripts of previous contacts are displayed for a tele-agent in real to facilitate communications with the customer representative. The transcripts and associated data are stored as parsed and inferred semantic triples in an enterprise knowledge graph.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of customer relationship management ("CRM") implemented in a computer system, the method comprising: administering by the computer system a communications session comprising a first and a subsequent communications contact between one or more tele-agents and one or more customer representatives, the session and the first and subsequent contacts comprising a structure of computer memory of the computer system; and generating by the computer system a first digital transcript of the content of the first contact; displaying by the computer system to the one or more tele-agents the first digital transcript of the content of the first contact during the subsequent contact; and then generating by the computer system a second digital transcript of the content of the subsequent contact; wherein administering a communications session comprises establishing, as structure of computer memory of the computer system, the session, the first, and the subsequent contacts as object-oriented modules of automated computing machinery.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein: the first communications contact occurs with a first tele-agent; and the subsequent communications contact occurs with a second tele-agent.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein: the first communications contact occurs with a first customer representative; and the subsequent communications contact occurs with a second customer representative.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein: the first communications contact occurs over a first communications h from a platform type group consisting of a telephone, an email, a text message, and a chatbot; and the subsequent communications contact occurs over a second communications platform type from the platform type group.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein: the first communications contact occurs and the subsequent communications contact occur asynchronously over time.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein administering a communications session comprises: storing in computer memory for the session a session identification, a subject code, a timestamp, an identification of a customer, and a status; and storing in computer memory for each contact a timestamp, the session identifier for the contact, a platform type, a tele-agent identification, a customer representative identification, a status code, and any communications content of the contact.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein generating the first digital transcript comprises: gathering text content from communications by text message, email, or chatbot.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein generating the first digital transcript comprises: capturing speech content from telephone conversations between the one or more tele-agents and the one or more customer representative; and recognizing the speech content into digitized text.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein generating the first digital transcript comprises: identifying by voiceprint comparison the speakers in a conversation between the one or more tele-agents and the one or more customer representatives.
10. The method of claim 1 further comprising: parsing, by a parsing engine of the computer system into parsed triples of a description logic, the content of the first digital transcript; inferring, by an inference engine from the parsed triples according to inference rules of said enterprise knowledge graph of the computer system, inferred triples; and storing the parsed triples and the inferred triples in the enterprise knowledge graph.
11. A computer system that implements customer relationship management ("CRM"), the computer system comprising a computer processor operatively coupled to computer memory, the computer processor configured to function by: administering by the computer system a communications session comprising a first and a subsequent communications contact between one or more tele-agents and one or more customer representatives, the session and the first and subsequent contacts comprising a structure of computer memory of the computer system; and generating by the computer system a first digital transcript of the content of the first contact; displaying by the computer system to the one or more tele-agents the first digital transcript of the content of the first contact during the subsequent contact; and then generating by the computer system a second digital transcript of the content of the subsequent contact; wherein administering a communications session comprises establishing, as structure of computer memory of the computer system, the session, the first, and the subsequent contacts as object-oriented modules of automated computing machinery.
12. The computer system of claim 11 wherein: the first communications contact occurs with a first tele-agent; and the subsequent communications contact occurs with a second tele-agent.
13. The computer system of claim 11 wherein: the first communications contact occurs with a first customer representative; and the subsequent communications contact occurs with a second customer representative.
14. The computer system of claim 11 wherein: the first communications contact occurs over a first communications platform type from a platform type group consisting of a telephone, an email, a text message, and a chatbot; and the subsequent communications contact occurs over a second communications platform type from the platform type group.
15. The computer system of claim 11 wherein: the first communications contact occurs and the subsequent communications contact occur asynchronously over time.
16. The computer system of claim 11 wherein administering a communications session comprises: storing in computer memory for the session a session identification, a subject code, a timestamp, an identification of a customer, and a status; and storing in computer memory for each contact a timestamp, the session identifier for the contact, a platform type, a tele-agent identification, a customer representative identification, a status code, and any communications content of the contact.
17. The computer system of claim 11 wherein generating the first digital transcript comprises: gathering text content from communications by text message, email, or chatbot.
18. The computer system of claim 11 wherein generating the first digital transcript comprises: capturing speech content from telephone conversations between the one or more tele-agents and the one or more customer representative; and recognizing the speech content into digitized text.
19. The computer system of claim 18 wherein generating the first digital transcript comprises: identifying by voiceprint comparison the speakers in a conversation between the one or more tele-agents and the one or more customer representatives.
20. The computer system of claim 11 wherein the computer processor is further configured to function by: parsing, by a parsing engine of the computer system into parsed triples of a description logic, the content of the transcript; inferring, by an inference engine from the parsed triples according to inference rules of said enterprise knowledge graph of the computer system, inferred triples; and storing the parsed triples and the inferred triples in the enterprise knowledge graph.
</claims>
</document>
