<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/23,G06F16/435,G06F16/438,G06F16/9535,G06N5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
QIAN LI
HUANG, XUEYAN
TU, ZHAOPENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59646576
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Content Explanation Method and Apparatus
</title>

<abstract>
A content explanation method and apparatus applied to content explanation includes identifying, by a content explanation apparatus, an emotion of the user, when identifying a negative emotion showing that the user is confused about delivered multimedia information, obtaining, by the content explanation apparatus, a target representation manner of target content in a target intelligence type, where the target content is content about which the user is confused in the multimedia information delivered to the user by an information delivery apparatus associated with the content explanation apparatus, and presenting, by the content explanation apparatus, the target content to the user in the target representation manner.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A content explanation method, implemented by a content explanation apparatus associated with an information delivery apparatus, and wherein the content explanation method comprises: identifying an emotion of a user; a target representation manner of target content in a target intelligence type when an emotion identified is a negative emotion, wherein the negative emotion shows that the user is confused about the multimedia information, wherein the target content is the multimedia information about which the user is confused, and wherein the target intelligence type is a psychological intelligence type preset in an intelligence type library; and presenting the target content to the user in the target representation manner.
2. The content explanation method of claim 1, wherein the target intelligence type is either a static intelligence type of the user that is pre-stored in the content explanation apparatus, or an intelligence type that is in a preset intelligence type sequence and that is not used by the content explanation apparatus to convert the target content for the user, and wherein the preset intelligence type sequence comprises an intelligence type.
3. The content explanation method of claim 2, wherein after identifying the emotion of the user, the method further comprises adding one to a counter of the intelligence type when the emotion identified is a positive emotion that shows the user is clear about the multimedia information that is delivered, wherein the intelligence type is in the intelligence type library of the user and is a representation manner to which the multimedia information belongs when the emotion identified is the positive emotion of the user, and wherein values of counters of different intelligence types of the user are recorded in the intelligence type library.
4. The content explanation method of claim 3, wherein after adding one to the counter of the intelligence type, the method further comprises updating the static intelligence type of the user to the intelligence type with a counter value that is highest in the intelligence type library either at a preset moment or when the counter value in the intelligence type library is greater than or equal to a preset threshold.
5. The content explanation method of claim 1, wherein before obtaining the target representation manner of target content in the target intelligence type, the method further comprises separately recording the multimedia information in a segmented manner based on a preset period to obtain an information segment, wherein the content about which the user is confused comprises a target information segment, wherein a moment at which the negative emotion is identified is comprised in a recording period of the target information segment.
6. The content explanation method of claim 1, wherein before obtaining the target representation manner of target content in the target intelligence type, the method further comprises: obtaining an information segment within a preset duration before a moment at which the emotion identified is the negative emotion in the multimedia information when identifying the negative emotion of the user; and using the information segment as the target content.
7. The content explanation method of claim 1, wherein before obtaining the target representation manner of target content in the target intelligence type, the method further comprises converting the target content into content in a text form.
8. The content explanation method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the target representation manner of target content in the target intelligence type comprises: obtaining the target content; obtaining the target intelligence type; and converting the target content through sequence-to-sequence learning to obtain the target representation manner of the target content in the target intelligence type.
9. A content explanation apparatus configured to explain multimedia information about which the user is confused, wherein the content explanation apparatus comprises: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor and storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the content explanation apparatus to be configured to: identify an emotion of a user when the user receives the multimedia information from an information delivery apparatus, wherein the information delivery apparatus is associated with the content explanation apparatus; obtain a target representation manner of target content in a target intelligence type when an emotion identified is a negative emotion, wherein the negative emotion shows that the user is confused about the multimedia information, wherein the target content is the multimedia information about which the user is confused, and wherein the target intelligence type is a psychological intelligence type preset in an intelligence type library; and present the target content to the user in the target representation manner.
10. The content explanation apparatus of claim 9, wherein the target intelligence type is either a static intelligence type of the user that is pre-stored in the content explanation apparatus, or an intelligence type that is in a preset intelligence type sequence and that is not used by the content explanation apparatus to convert the target content for the user, and wherein the preset intelligence type sequence comprises the intelligence type.
11. The content explanation apparatus of claim 10, wherein the instructions further cause the content explanation apparatus to be configured to add one to a counter of the intelligence type when the an identified emotion is a positive emotion that shows the user is clear about the multimedia information that is delivered, wherein the intelligence type is in the intelligence type library of the user and is a representation manner to which the multimedia information belongs when the identified emotion is the positive emotion of the user, and wherein counts of different intelligence types of the user are recorded in the intelligence type library.
12. The content explanation apparatus of claim 11, wherein after the processor adds one to the counter of the intelligence type, the instructions further cause the content explanation apparatus to be configured to: the static intelligence type of the user to the intelligence type with a counter value that is highest in the intelligence type library either at a preset moment or when the counter value in the intelligence type library is greater than or equal to a preset threshold.
13. The content explanation apparatus of claim 9, wherein before obtaining the target representation manner of the target content in the target intelligence type, the instructions further cause the content explanation apparatus to be configured to separately record the multimedia information in a segmented manner based on a preset period to obtain an information segment, wherein the content about which the user is confused comprises a target information segment, wherein a moment at which the negative emotion is identified is comprised in a recording period of the target information segment.
14. The content explanation apparatus of claim 9, wherein before obtaining the target representation manner of the target content in the target intelligence type, the instructions further cause the content explanation apparatus to be configured to obtain an information segment within preset duration before a moment at which the negative emotion is identified in the multimedia information delivered to the user by the information delivery apparatus and use the information segment as the target content when the content explanation apparatus identifies the negative emotion of the user.
15. The content explanation apparatus of claim 9, wherein before obtaining the target representation manner of the target content in the target intelligence type, the instructions further cause the content explanation apparatus to be configured to convert the target content into content in a text form.
16. The content explanation apparatus of claim 9, wherein the instructions further cause the content explanation apparatus to be configured to: obtain the target content; obtain the target intelligence type; and convert the target content through sequence-to-sequence learning to obtain the target representation manner of the target content in the target intelligence type.
17. The content explanation apparatus of claim 9, wherein the target intelligence type is either a static intelligence type of the user that is pre-stored in the content explanation apparatus, or an intelligence type that is in a preset intelligence type sequence and that is not used by the content explanation apparatus to convert the target content for the user, and wherein the preset intelligence type sequence comprises an intelligence type
18. A computer program product comprising computer-executable instructions stored on a non-transitory computer-readable medium that, when executed by a processor, cause a content explanation apparatus to: identify an emotion of the user during the multimedia information delivery to the user; obtain a target representation manner of target content in a target intelligence type when an emotion identified is a negative emotion, wherein the negative emotion shows that the user is confused about the multimedia information, wherein the target content is the multimedia information about which the user is confused, wherein the target intelligence type is a psychological intelligence type preset in an intelligence type library; and present the target content to the user in the target representation manner.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the target intelligence type is either a static intelligence type of the user that is pre-stored in the content explanation apparatus, or an intelligence type that is in a preset intelligence type sequence and that is not used by the content explanation apparatus to convert the target content for the user, wherein the preset intelligence type sequence comprises the intelligence type.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the instructions further cause the content explanation apparatus to be configured to add one to a counter of the intelligence type when an emotion identified is a positive emotion that shows the user is clear about the delivered multimedia information, wherein the intelligence type is in the intelligence type library of the user and a representation manner to which the multimedia information belongs when the emotion identified is the positive emotion of the user, wherein counts of different intelligence types of the user are recorded in the intelligence type library.
</claims>
</document>
