<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W50/10,B60W50/14,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DIDI RESEARCH AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG, JIANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74042957
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REMOTELY SUPERVISED PASSENGER INTERVENTION OF AN AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on computer storage media, for managing user intervention for a vehicle are provided. One of the methods includes: receiving an instruction to initiate an intervention session from a server, and providing, in response to receiving the instruction, a user interface associated with the intervention session for display on a terminal associated with the vehicle. The method further includes detecting, at the terminal, a user interaction corresponding to a command associated with operation of the vehicle, and generating a decision associated with the operation of the vehicle based at least in part on the command.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for managing user intervention for a vehicle, comprising: receiving an instruction to initiate an intervention session from a server; providing, in response to receiving the instruction, a user interface associated with the intervention session for display on a terminal associated with the vehicle; detecting, at the terminal, a user interaction corresponding to a command associated with operation of the vehicle; and generating a decision associated with the operation of the vehicle based at least in part on the command.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to the receiving the instruction: receiving, at the terminal, a user input comprising a request for initiating the intervention session; and forwarding, to the server, the request and information associated with a status of the vehicle.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the command comprises: instructions associated with a movement direction of the vehicle; instructions associated with a speed of the vehicle; or instructions associated with a destination for navigation of the vehicle.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response receiving the instruction, enabling a state flag that indicates user intervention is authorized.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to the detecting, forwarding the command to the server.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein: the decision is generated further based on data collected by one or more sensors associated with the vehicle.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining updated information associated with a status of the vehicle as a result of the decision; sending the updated information to the server; and providing the updated information for display in the user interface.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, at the terminal, a user input comprising a request for terminating the intervention session; terminating the intervention session in response to the received user input, wherein the terminating comprises disabling a state flag that indicates user intervention is authorized; and sending a report to the server indicating that the intervention has been terminated.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a command associated with the operation of the vehicle from the server; and updating the decision based at least in part on the command from the server.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein: the command from the server has high priority than the command corresponding to the user interaction; and the updating comprises using the command from the server to override the command corresponding to the user interaction.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a command to terminate the intervention session from the server; and terminating the intervention session in response to the command from the server, wherein the terminating comprises disabling a state flag that indicates user intervention is authorized.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the instruction comprises a digital certificate, and wherein the method further comprises: verifying an identity of the server based on the digital certificate.
13. A system for managing user intervention for a vehicle, comprising a processor and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions executable by the processor to cause the system to perform operations comprising: receiving an instruction to initiate an intervention session from a server; providing, in response to the received instruction, a user interface associated with the intervention session for display on a terminal associated with the vehicle; detecting, at the terminal, a user interaction corresponding to a command associated with operations of the vehicle; and generating a decision associated with the operations of the vehicle based at least in part on the command.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, at the terminal, a user input comprising a request for initiating the intervention session; and forwarding, to the server, the request and information associated with a status of the vehicle.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: in response receiving the instruction, enabling a state flag that indicates user intervention is authorized.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to the detecting, forwarding the command to the server.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: obtaining updated information associated with a status of the vehicle as a result of the decision; sending the updated information to the server; and providing the updated information for display in the user interface.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving a command associated with the operation of the vehicle from the server; and updating the decision based at least in part on the command from the server.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein: the command from the server has high priority than the command corresponding to the user interaction; and the updating comprises using the command from the server to override the command corresponding to the user interaction.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium configured with instructions executable by one or more processors to cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving an instruction to initiate an intervention session from a server; providing, in response to the received instruction, a user interface associated with the intervention session for display on a terminal associated with the vehicle; detecting, at the terminal, a user interaction corresponding to a command associated with operations of the vehicle; and generating a decision associated with the operations of the vehicle based at least in part on the command.
</claims>
</document>
