<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/00,B60W30/095,B60W50/00,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06K9/00,G06T7/20,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UATC
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAYNES, GALEN CLARK
LAN, TIAN
STYLER, ALEXANDER DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66534386
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Object interaction prediction systems and methods for autonomous vehicles
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for determining object motion and controlling autonomous vehicles are provided. In one example embodiment, a computing system includes processor(s) and one or more tangible, non-transitory, computer readable media that collectively store instructions that when executed by the processor(s) cause the computing system to perform operations. The operations include obtaining data associated with a first object and one or more second objects within a surrounding environment of an autonomous vehicle. The operations include determining an interaction between the first object and the one or more second objects based at least in part on the data. The operations include determining one or more predicted trajectories of the first object within the surrounding environment based at least in part on the interaction between the first object and the one or more second objects. The operations include outputting data indicative of the one or more predicted trajectories of the first object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A computing system, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more tangible, non-transitory, computer readable media storing instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the computing system to perform operations comprising: obtaining first data representing a predicted movement of a first object and second data representing a predicted movement of a second object within a surrounding environment of an autonomous vehicle, wherein the first object comprises a first vehicle, a first pedestrian, or a first bicycle, and wherein the second object comprises a second vehicle, a second pedestrian, or a second bicycle; determining an interaction between the first object and the second object based at least in part on the first data and the second data; determining a modified predicted movement of the first object within the surrounding environment based at least in part on the interaction between the first object and the second object; and determining a motion plan for the autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the modified predicted movement of the first object.
22. The computing system of claim 21, wherein determining the interaction between the first object and the second object comprises: determining the interaction between the first object and the second object based at least in part on a machine-learned model.
23. The computing system of claim 22, wherein determining the interaction between the first object and the second object based at least in part on the machine-learned model comprises: obtaining an output from the machine-learned model, wherein the output is indicative of the modified predicted movement of the first object within the surrounding environment.
24. The computing system of claim 23, wherein the machine-learned model is configured to generate the output based at least in part on input data, wherein the input data comprises at least one of the first data and the second data.
25. The computing system of claim 21, wherein determining the modified predicted movement of the first object within the surrounding environment comprises: determining one or more predicted interaction trajectories of the first object based at least in part on the interaction between the first object and the second object.
26. The computing system of claim 25, wherein each respective predicted interaction trajectory is associated with a respective probability, wherein the respective probability for the respective predicted integration trajectory is indicative of a likelihood of the first object acting in accordance with the respective predicted interaction trajectory.
27. The computing system of claim 21, wherein the interaction is associated with a traffic rule.
28. The computing system of claim 21, wherein the interaction is based at least in part on one or more policies associated with at least one of the predicted movement of the first object or the predicted movement of the second object.
29. The computing system of claim 21, wherein determining the interaction between the first object and the second object comprises: determining that the predicted movement of the first object conflicts with the predicted movement of the second object.
30. The computing system of claim 29, wherein determining the modified predicted movement of the first object within the surrounding environment comprises: in response to determining that the predicted movement of the first object conflicts with the predicted movement of the second object, determining the modified predicted movement of the first object such that the modified predicted movement of the first object does not conflict with the predicted movement of the second object.
31. An autonomous vehicle comprising: one or more processors; and one or more tangible, non-transitory, computer readable media storing instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the computing system to perform operations comprising: obtaining first data representing a predicted movement of a first object and second data representing a predicted movement of a second object within a surrounding environment of an autonomous vehicle, wherein the first object comprises a first vehicle, a first pedestrian, or a first bicycle, and wherein the second object comprises a second vehicle, a second pedestrian, or a second bicycle; determining an interaction between the first object and the second object based at least in part on the first data and the second data; determining a modified predicted movement of the first object within the surrounding environment based at least in part on the interaction between the first object and the second object; and determining a motion plan for the autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the modified predicted movement of the first object.
32. The autonomous vehicle of claim 31, wherein determining the interaction between the first object and the one or more second objects comprises associating the first object with the second object.
33. The autonomous vehicle of claim 31, wherein the interaction between the first object and the second object is determined based at least in part on map data associated with the surrounding environment of the autonomous vehicle.
34. The autonomous vehicle of claim 31, wherein the modified predicted movement of the first object within the surrounding environment is associated with a plurality of predicted interaction trajectories of the first object, and wherein the operations comprise: determining a probability for each of the respective predicted interaction trajectories; and determining a score for each of the respective predicted interaction trajectories based at least in part on the probability for each of the respective predicted interaction trajectories.
35. The autonomous vehicle of claim 34, wherein determining the modified predicted movement of the first object within the surrounding environment comprises: determining the modified predicted movement of the first object within the surrounding environment based at least in part on the score for each of the respective predicted interaction trajectories.
36. The autonomous vehicle of claim 30, wherein the interaction between the first object and the second object is determined based at least in part on a machine-learned model.
37. A computer-implemented method comprising: obtaining, by a computing system comprising one or more computing devices, first data representing a predicted movement of a first object and second data representing a predicted movement of a second object within a surrounding environment of an autonomous vehicle, wherein the first object comprises a first vehicle, a first pedestrian, or a first bicycle, and wherein the second object comprises a second vehicle, a second pedestrian, or a second bicycle; determining, by the computing system, an interaction between the first object and the second object based at least in part on the first data and the second data; and determining, by the computing system, a modified predicted movement of the first object within the surrounding environment based at least in part on the interaction between the first object and the second object.
38. The computer-implemented method of claim 37, further comprising: determining, by the computing system, a motion plan for the autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the modified predicted movement of the first object.
39. The computer-implemented method of claim 37, wherein determining, by the computing system, the modified predicted movement of the first object within the surrounding environment comprises: determining at a plurality of iterations, by the computing system, one or more predicted interaction trajectories of the first object within the surrounding environment; and determining for each respective predicted interaction trajectory, by the computing system, a likelihood that the first object will act in accordance with the respective predicted interaction trajectory.
40. The computer-implemented method of claim 39, wherein, at each iteration, one or more predicted interaction trajectories are adjusted to avoid conflict with one or more other trajectories developed in a previous iteration.
</claims>
</document>
