<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G06F40/117,G06F40/295,G06F40/30,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G16H10/60,G16H50/20,G16H50/70,G16H70/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
K HEALTH
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLOCH, ALLON
HARAMATY, TOM
LEVENTHAL, ARIEL
MALKA, ROY
ROTH, ISRAEL
SHAUL, RAN
SINGOLDA, ADAM
SOUROUJON, DANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70972117
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING HEALTH INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for providing health information. A method for building a health predictive model is provided based on a plurality of electronic medical records representing a plurality of electronic medical cases each associated with a diagnosis of a medical condition. Symptom-attribute-value (SAV) ontology objects are extracted from the plurality of electronic medical records. A plurality of feature vectors respectively associated with the medical cases and at least partially based on the SAV ontology objects are generated. The health predictive model can be trained based on the feature vectors by using the diagnoses as category labels of the training. The method for providing health information can include presenting a probability vector by inputting a current feature vector into the health predictive model. The current feature vector can be based on responses received via a health conversation. Advantageously, personalized and highly relevant medical advice can be provided to a user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-based method for building a health predictive model using machine learning based on a plurality of electronic medical records representing a plurality of medical cases, each medical case being associated with at least one diagnosis of a medical condition, the method comprising: extracting a plurality of symptom-attribute-value (SAV) ontology objects from free text of the plurality of electronic medical records; and arranging the SAV ontology objects into a hierarchical ontology of the SAV ontology objects; generating a plurality of feature vectors respectively associated with the plurality of medical cases and at least partially based on the SAV ontology objects; and training the health predictive model based on the plurality of feature vectors by using the diagnoses as category labels of said training.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to said extracting: constructing a timeline that chronicles a plurality of medical events for a person represented by at least one of the electronic medical records; and identifying, from the timeline, at least one medical case of the plurality of medical cases, wherein the medical case includes at least one of the plurality of medical events that is associated with the diagnosis of the medical case.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein said identifying includes: grouping, into the medical case, two or more medical events that are selected from the plurality of medical events and span within a predetermined time interval; and determining a diagnosis of a last medical event of the group as the diagnosis of the medical case.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said extracting includes tagging symptoms, attributes and values from free text recorded in one or more doctor-patient visits associated with the medical cases.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein said extracting includes: selecting a subset of the medical cases; manually tagging the symptoms, the attributes and the values in the free text from the subset of the medical cases; and running, based on the manual tagging, an automated tagging process on the free text of the medical cases that is not manually tagged.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein said extracting includes establishing a hierarchical structure of the SAV ontology objects including symptom objects, attribute objects and value objects that group the symptoms, the attributes and the values obtained based on said tagging, wherein, of a selected medical case of the medical cases, the diagnosis is linked to one or more symptom objects associated with the selected medical case, a selected symptom object is linked to one or more attribute objects, and a selected attribute object is linked to at least one value object.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein said tagging includes tagging the symptoms, the attributes and the values from the free text including doctor notes, patient description of the symptoms, description of a physical test, or a combination thereof.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein said generating includes generating the feature vectors each including a plurality of features, wherein the features include symptom features and profile features, the symptom features including symptoms, attributes and values, the profile features including an age, a sex, a gender, health habits, a weight, a body-mass index (BMI), a height, or a combination thereof.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein said extracting includes: tagging text strings associated with symptoms, attribute and values in the free text of the plurality of electronic medical records; and grouping, in a subset of the free text of the electronic medical records, the text strings into the SAV ontology objects, wherein the SAV ontology objects include: one or more symptom objects each corresponding one or more of the text strings associated with a selected symptom; one or more attribute objects each corresponding to one or more of the text strings associated with a selected attribute; and one or more value objects each corresponding to one or more of the text strings associated with a selected value.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein said extracting includes: automatically tagging, using natural language processing, text strings associated with symptoms, attribute and values in the free text of the electronic medical records extracting the symptom-attribute-value (SAV) ontology objects; grouping, the text strings into the SAV ontology objects; identifying relationships among the SAV ontology objects; and marking types of each of the SAV ontology objects.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic medical records are from a plurality of different sources, further comprising: normalizing the electronic medical records via said extracting; using automated named entity extraction to express textual parts of at least part of the electronic medical records as the SAV ontology objects; and adding the SAV ontology objects to structured data in the electronic medical records to form the feature vectors.
12. A method for providing health information, comprising: building the health predictive model in accordance with the method of claim 1; receiving one or more responses via a health conversation; updating a current feature vector based on the one or more responses; inputting the current feature vector into the health predictive model; and calculating a probability vector based on said inputting, the probability vector including one or more probabilities each associated with a selected medical condition.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising determining, upon receiving a selected response of the one or more responses, reference population information based on the current feature vector and statistics of the plurality of feature vectors associated with the plurality of medical cases.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein said determining includes calculating a reference population index as a number of the feature vectors having one or more relevant symptoms and one or more relevant profile features that are in the current feature vector.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein said determining includes generating: a map that displays locations associated with the reference population having the one or more relevant symptoms and the one or more relevant profile features; a symptom timeline that presents an evolution of a value of a selected attribute of one of the relevant symptoms of the reference population; the symptom timeline that presents the evolution of the value for each selected medical treatment; or a combination thereof.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein said calculating includes calculating the reference population index based on a summation of a product between a probability of a feature vector having the relevant symptoms and the relevant profile features given a medical condition and a probability of the medical condition in the plurality of electronic medical records, the summation being performed over all of the feature vector of the medical cases and over all of the medical conditions of the medical cases.
17. The method of claim 12, further including selecting an attribute of a symptom to ask about during the health conversation, wherein said selecting includes performing a calculation to identify the attribute that results in, among all attributes associated with the symptom: a greatest change in information gain based on lowering of an entropy achieved in the probability vector; a greatest change in the probability vector; or a greatest probability of receiving a positive answer.
18. The method of claim 12, further including selecting an attribute or a symptom to ask about during the health conversation, wherein said selecting is based on a state machine considering the current feature vector and a conversation state and wherein said selecting includes selecting among different models used for calculating the probability vector, selecting among different equations for calculating information gain, or using medical protocols based heuristics.
19. A computer program product for providing health information, the computer program product being encoded on one or more machine-readable storage media and configured to be installed on a client device, the computer program product comprising: instruction for receiving one or more responses via a health conversation; instruction for presenting reference population information upon receiving a selected response of the one or more responses and based on statistics of a plurality of electronic medical records, the reference population information including a reference population index presented as a number of people in the plurality of electronic medical records that have one or more relevant symptoms and one or more relevant profile features associated with the health conversation; and instruction for presenting, at an end of the health conversation, at least part of a probability vector including one or more probabilities each associated with a selected medical condition, the probability vector being calculated based at least partially on the one or more responses and a health predictive model that is built based on the plurality of electronic medical records.
20. A method for providing health information, comprising: receiving one or more responses via a health conversation; updating a current feature vector based on the one or more responses; and calculating a probability vector by inputting the current feature vector into a health predictive model, the probability vector including one or more probabilities each associated with a selected medical condition.
</claims>
</document>
