<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N99/00,G06Q10/06,G06Q30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHONG, POH LIN
GREEN, WILLIAM J.
GROSSKOPF, CURTIS T.
KOO, KEH SER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69772193
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRODUCT DECLARATION VALIDATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for product declaration validation are provided. Aspects include receiving, by a processor, component data for a component. Obtaining, by the processor, environmental compliance data. Obtaining, by the processor, historical component data associated with the component. Determining a risk score for the component based on a feature vector, generated by a machine learning model, comprising a plurality of features extracted from the component data, environmental compliance data, and the historical component data and presenting the risk score for the component to a user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for product declaration validation, the method comprising: receiving, by a processor, component data for a component; obtaining, by the processor, environmental compliance data; obtaining, by the processor, historical component data associated with the component; and determining a risk score for the component based on a feature vector, generated by a machine learning model, comprising a plurality of features extracted from the component data, environmental compliance data, and the historical component data; presenting the risk score for the component to a user.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: generating one or more recommendations for the component based at least in part on the risk score and the feature vector; and presenting the one or more recommendations for the component to the user.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving an input from the user responsive to presenting the one or more recommendations for the component to the user, wherein the input comprises a selection of at least one of the one or more recommendations for the component; updating the machine learning model based on the selection.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving an input from the user responsive to presenting the one or more recommendations for the component to the user, wherein the input comprises an indication rejecting at least one of the one or more recommendations for the component; updating the machine learning model based on the indication.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model is trained, using supervised or unsupervised learning, to classify elements of the environmental compliance data in to a plurality of environmental classes.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model is trained, using supervised or unsupervised learning, to classify elements of the component data in to a plurality of component classes.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the environmental compliance data comprises regulations associated with one or more materials in the component.
8. A system for product declaration validation, the system comprising: a processor communicatively coupled to a memory, the processor configured to: receive component data for a component; obtain environmental compliance data; obtain historical component data associated with the component; determine a risk score for the component based on a feature vector, generated by a machine learning model, comprising a plurality of features extracted from the component data, environmental compliance data, and the historical component data; and present the risk score for the component to a user.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to: generate one or more recommendations for the component based at least in part on the risk score and the feature vector; and present the one or more recommendations for the component to the user.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive an input from the user responsive to presenting the one or more recommendations for the component to the user, wherein the input comprises a selection of at least one of the one or more recommendations for the component; update the machine learning model based on the selection.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive an input from the user responsive to presenting the one or more recommendations for the component to the user, wherein the input comprises an indication rejecting at least one of the one or more recommendations for the component; update the machine learning model based on the indication.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the machine learning model is trained, using supervised or unsupervised learning, to classify elements of the environmental compliance data in to a plurality of environmental classes.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the machine learning model is trained, using supervised or unsupervised learning, to classify elements of the component data in to a plurality of component classes.
14. A computer program product for product content validation, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: receiving, by the processor, component data for a component; obtaining, by the processor, environmental compliance data; obtaining, by the processor, historical component data associated with the component; determining a risk score for the component based on a feature vector, generated by a machine learning model, comprising a plurality of features extracted from the component data, environmental compliance data, and the historical component data; and presenting the risk score for the component to a user.
15. The computer program product of claim 14, further comprising: generating one or more recommendations for the component based at least in part on the risk score and the feature vector; and presenting the one or more recommendations for the component to the user.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, further comprising: receiving an input from the user responsive to presenting the one or more recommendations for the component to the user, wherein the input comprises a selection of at least one of the one or more recommendations for the component; updating the machine learning model based on the selection.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, further comprising: receiving an input from the user responsive to presenting the one or more recommendations for the component to the user, wherein the input comprises an indication rejecting at least one of the one or more recommendations for the component; updating the machine learning model based on the indication.
18. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the machine learning model is trained, using supervised or unsupervised learning, to classify elements of the environmental compliance data in to a plurality of environmental classes.
19. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the machine learning model is trained, using supervised or unsupervised learning, to classify elements of the component data in to a plurality of component classes.
20. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the environmental compliance data comprises regulations associated with one or more materials in the component.
</claims>
</document>
