<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B18/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC SCIMED
</assignee>

<inventors>
MCGOWAN, ROGER, W.
SHAO, HAIPING
KRAUTKREMER, DANIEL LEE
MASSIMINI, DANIEL FRANK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74044237
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LIGHT GUIDE PROTECTION STRUCTURES FOR PLASMA SYSTEM TO DISRUPT VASCULAR LESIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A catheter system includes a catheter having an elongate shaft, a balloon and a light guide. The balloon expands from a collapsed configuration to a first expanded configuration. The light guide is disposed along the elongate shaft and is in optical communication with a light source and a balloon fluid. A first portion of the light guide extends into a recess defined by the elongate shaft. A protection structure is disposed within the recess and is in contact with the first portion of the light guide. The light source provides pulses of light to the balloon fluid, thereby initiating plasma formation and rapid bubble formation within the balloon, thereby imparting pressure waves upon a treatment site. The protection structure can provide structural protection from the pressure waves to the first portion of the light guide.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A catheter system for imparting pressure to induce fractures in a treatment site within or adjacent a vessel wall, comprising: a catheter configured to advance to the treatment site, the catheter comprising an elongate shaft, a balloon coupled to the elongate shaft, and a first light guide disposed along the elongate shaft, the elongate shaft defining a first recess within the balloon, the balloon being configured to be filled with a balloon fluid, the first light guide being positioned at least partially within the balloon and in optical communication with a light source and the balloon fluid, the first light guide including a first portion that extends into the first recess; and a first protection structure that contacts the first portion of the first light guide; wherein the light source selectively provides pulses of light through the first light guide to the balloon fluid so that plasma formation and rapid bubble formation in the balloon fluid occur, thereby imparting pressure waves upon the treatment site, and wherein the first protection structure is configured to provide structural protection from the pressure waves to the first portion of the first light guide.
2. The catheter system of claim 1, wherein the first portion includes a distal tip of the first light guide, the first protection structure providing structural protection to the distal tip of the first light guide.
3. The catheter system of claim 1, wherein the first protection structure comprises an end cap that is adhered to an outer surface of the first portion of the light guide with an adhesive, wherein the adhesive and the end cap are optically matched to the first light guide.
4. The catheter system of claim 1, wherein the first protection structure comprises a potting material at least partially filling the first recess, wherein the potting material is optically matched to the first light guide.
5. The catheter system of claim 1, wherein the first portion includes a distal tip of the first light guide, the first protection structure including a first component abutted against and fused to the distal tip of the first light guide, wherein the first component is optically matched to the first light guide.
6. The catheter system of claim 1, wherein the first light guide comprises a diverting feature selected from the group consisting of a reflecting element, a refracting element, and a fiber diffuser.
7. The catheter system of claim 6, wherein the diverting feature comprises a fiber diffuser selected from the group consisting of a machined portion of the light guide, a laser-machined portion of the light guide, fiber Bragg gratings, a fused splicing forming at least one internal mirror, and a splicing of two or more diffuse regions.
8. The catheter system of claim 1, wherein the first recess is a longitudinal recess along a longitudinal surface of the elongate shaft.
9. The catheter system of claim 1, wherein the elongate shaft further defines a second recess positioned within the balloon along a longitudinal surface of the elongate shaft, wherein a second portion of the first light guide extends into the second recess and the second portion defines a longitudinal light window disposed along a longitudinal length of the second portion, the longitudinal light window being in optical communication with a first diverting feature, the catheter further comprising a first longitudinal protection structure in contact with the second portion of the first light guide, the first longitudinal protection structure being configured to provide structural protection from the pressure waves to the second portion.
10. The catheter system of claim 9, wherein the first longitudinal protection structure comprises a potting material that is at least partially disposed within the second recess, the potting material being optically matched to the first light guide.
11. The catheter system of claim 9, wherein the first longitudinal protection structure comprises a sleeve disposed about the longitudinal light window, the sleeve being adhered to the longitudinal surface of the second portion of the first light guide with an adhesive, the adhesive and the sleeve being optically matched to the first light guide.
12. The catheter system of claim 1, wherein the first light guide is an optical fiber and wherein the light source is a laser.
13. A method for generating pressure waves to induce fractures in a treatment site within or adjacent a vessel wall, the method comprising the steps of: advancing a catheter to the treatment site, the catheter comprising an elongate shaft, a balloon coupled to the elongate shaft, and a first light guide disposed along the elongate shaft and positioned at least partially within the balloon, the first light guide being configured to be in optical communication with a light source and a balloon fluid, a first portion of the first light guide being disposed within a first recess that is defined by the elongate shaft, wherein the first portion of the first light guide is in contact with a first light guide protection structure of the catheter; expanding the balloon to a first expanded configuration; and activating a light source in optical communication with the first light guide to direct light from within the first light guide to initiate plasma formation and rapid bubble formation in the balloon, thereby imparting pressure waves upon the treatment site, wherein the first light guide protection structure is configured to provide structural protection from the pressure waves to the first portion of the first light guide.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the first portion comprises a distal tip of the first light guide, wherein the first protection structure is configured to provide structural protection to the distal tip of the first light guide.
15. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of, after activating the light source, further expanding the balloon from the first expanded configuration to a second further expanded configuration.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the first light guide comprises a diverting feature selected from the group consisting of a reflecting element, a refracting element, and a fiber diffuser.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the first protection structure comprises a potting material at least partially filling the first recess, wherein the potting material is optically matched to the first light guide.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the first light guide is an optical fiber and wherein the light source is a laser.
19. The method of claim 13, wherein the first recess is a longitudinal recess along a longitudinal surface of the elongate shaft.
20. A catheter system for imparting pressure to induce fractures in a treatment site within or adjacent a vessel wall, comprising: a catheter configured to advance to the treatment site, the catheter comprising an elongate shaft, a balloon coupled to the elongate shaft, and an optical fiber that is disposed along the elongate shaft, the elongate shaft defining a first recess within the balloon, the balloon being configured to be filled with a balloon fluid, the optical fiber being positioned at least partially within the balloon and in optical communication with a laser and the balloon fluid, the optical fiber including a first portion that extends into the first recess, the first portion including a distal tip of the optical fiber; and a first protection structure that contacts the first portion of the optical fiber, the first protection structure including a potting material that at least partially fills the first recess, the potting material being optically matched to the optical fiber; wherein the laser selectively provides pulses of light through the optical fiber to the balloon fluid so that plasma formation and rapid bubble formation in the balloon fluid occur, thereby imparting pressure waves upon the treatment site, and wherein the first protection structure is configured to provide structural protection from the pressure waves to the distal tip of the first portion of the optical fiber.
</claims>
</document>
