<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G06N7/00,G06T11/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SUDHEENDRA, PAVAN
VARNA, RAHUL
GOURANNAVAR, ADAPPA M.
PRAGADA, NAGESWARA RAO
BHAT, GURURAJ
PATTANAIK, MAMATA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69642466
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR PERFORMING EDITING OPERATIONS ON MEDIA
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for performing editing operations on media are provided. A method includes receiving at least one reference media and at least one target media, identifying at least one dominant edit attribute of the at least one reference media, and performing a compatibility check to determine a compatibility of the at least one target media with the at least one dominant edit attribute of the at least one reference media. Based on results of the compatibility check, at least one compatible edit attribute is selected from the at least one dominant edit attribute, and the at least one compatible edit attribute is transferred from the at least one reference media to the at least one target media.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for performing editing operations on media, the method comprising: receiving, by a reception unit, at least one reference media and at least one target media, wherein the at least one reference media includes at least one edited portion; identifying, by a processing engine, at least one dominant edit attribute of the at least one reference media; performing, by the processing engine, a compatibility check to determine a compatibility of the at least one target media with the at least one dominant edit attribute of the at least one reference media; selecting, by the processing engine, at least one compatible edit attribute from the at least one dominant edit attribute based on a result of the compatibility check; and transferring, by an edit transfer engine, the at least one selected compatible edit attribute from the at least one reference media to the at least one target media.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the at least one dominant edit attribute includes: determining at least one edit attribute of at least one portion of the at least one reference media; calculating a probability of the at least one edit attribute of the at least one portion of the at least one reference media; and identifying the at least one dominant edit attribute of the at least one reference media by analyzing the probability of the at least one edit attribute of the at least one portion of the at least one reference media.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one dominant attribute is identified using a convolutional neural network (CNN).
4. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the compatibility check includes: processing at least one portion of the at least one target media to determine at least one source attribute; comparing the at least one source attribute with the at least one dominant edit attribute to determine a compatibility of the at least one portion of the at least one target media with the at least one dominant edit attribute of the at least one reference media; and assigning a weight value to the at least one dominant edit attribute based on a compatibility of the at least one portion of the at least one target media with the at least one dominant edit attribute of the at least one reference media.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the weight value is used to select the at least one compatible edit attribute of the at least one reference media.
6. The method of claim 4, further comprising analyzing at least one piece of metadata associated with the at least one target media to select the at least one portion of the at least one target media for processing.
7. The method of claim 4, further comprising receiving at least one input from at least one user to select the at least one portion of the at least one target media for processing.
8. An electronic device for performing editing operations on media, the electronic device comprising: a reception unit configured to receive at least one reference media and at least one target media, wherein the at least one reference media includes at least one edited portion; a processing engine configured to: identify at least one dominant edit attribute of the at least one reference media; perform a compatibility check to determine a compatibility of the at least one target media with the at least one dominant edit attribute of the at least one reference media; and select at least one compatible edit attribute from the at least one dominant edit attribute based on a result of the compatibility check; and an edit transfer engine configured to transfer the at least one selected compatible edit attribute from the at least one reference media to the at least one target media.
9. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the processing engine is further configured to: determine at least one edit attribute of at least one of at least one portion of the at least one reference media and the at least one reference media; calculate probability of the at least one edit attribute of the at least one of the at least one portion of the at least one reference media and the at least one reference media; and identify the at least one dominant edit attribute of the at least one reference media by analyzing the probability of the at least one edit attribute of the at least one of the at least one portion of the at least one reference media and the at least one reference media.
10. The electronic device of claim 9, wherein the at least one dominant attribute is identified using a convolutional neural network (CNN).
11. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the processing engine is configured to: process at least one portion of the at least one target media to determine at least one source attribute; compare the at least one source attribute with the at least one dominant edit attribute to determine a compatibility of the at least one portion of the at least one target media with the at least one dominant edit attribute of the at least one reference media; and assign a weight value to the at least one dominant edit attribute based on a compatibility of the at least one portion of the at least one target media with the at least one dominant edit attribute of the at least one reference media.
12. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the weight value is used to select the at least one compatible edit attribute of the at least one reference media.
13. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the processing engine is further configured to analyze at least one piece of metadata associated with the at least one target media to select the at least one portion of the at least one target media for processing.
14. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the processing engine is further configured to receive at least one input from at least one user to select the at least one portion of the at least one target media for processing.
</claims>
</document>
