<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/60,G06Q10/04,G06Q10/06,H04W4/021,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GURIN, MICHAEL
</assignee>

<inventors>
GURIN, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68617632
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic Resource Location Coordination Control System
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for location centric activity leveraging convergence control of vectors having both a time and space domain. Additionally, the system executes the control of mobile and dynamic resources by controlling the dispatch of primary tasks with intermediate secondary tasks to enhance system efficiency and effectiveness. The location convergence of multiple mobile resources is vital to the realization of high-accuracy location determination and therefore high-accuracy inference and contextual relevance.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system comprised of an at least one mobile resource having a travel movement pathway wherein the at least one mobile resource executes a first task at a first known location having a first task completion time and a second task at a second known location having a second task completion time and an at least one blind-spot location that is in between the first known location and the second known location, wherein a blind-spot task occurs at the at least one blind-spot location and has a blind-spot task completion time, wherein the at least one blind-spot location blind-spot task completion time is after the first task completion time and before the second task completion time, whereby the at least one mobile resource performs each of the first task, the second task, and the blind-spot task using a computer system having a communication link to determine a travel movement pathway between the first known location, the at least one blind-spot location and the second known location, whereby the travel movement pathway is calibrated creating an increased location precision by at least 5% of the travel movement pathway as compared to the travel movement pathway without the at least one blind-spot location, and whereby the travel movement pathway with the calibrated increased location precision is used to retroactively improve an accuracy of the travel movement pathway for a future utilization of the mobile resource along at least a segment of the travel movement pathway or to establish a pattern of travel times between at least one of the first location and the second location.
2. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 1 whereby the future utilization of the mobile resource is an on-line order fulfillment to prevent or limit fraud by means of retroactively using the calibrated increased location precision.
3. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 1 whereby the travel movement pathway from and between the first known location to the second known location is dynamically routed to minimize a noise impact within an at least one geofence whereby the at least one geofence is in between the first known location and the second known location.
4. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 1 whereby the travel movement pathway of the mobile resource is encrypted and contained within a distributed ledger and whereby the encryption utilizes an encryption key based on a specific mode within a location geofence.
5. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 1 whereby the travel movement pathway of the mobile resource is comprised of a real-time location and a non-real-time location adjustment whereby the non-real-time location adjustment improves the accuracy of the travel movement pathway by at least 5%.
6. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 1 whereby the travel movement pathway of the mobile resource is dynamically altered for privacy using a location offset wherein the location offset is a function of an at least one of time, a mode within a geofence location, and a rules-based logic combining at least two of the time, the geofence location, and the mode within the geofence location.
7. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 1 whereby the mobile resource moves at a speed during its travel movement from the first known location to the second known location and whereby the speed is dynamically altered as a function of a noise impact within an adjoining geofence between the first known location and the second known location.
8. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 1 wherein the travel movement pathway has an at least one probability gradient geofence for the travel movement pathway between the first known location and the second known location.
9. A mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system comprised of an at least one mobile resource wherein the at least one mobile resource executes a first task at a first known location having a first task completion time and a second task at a second known location having a second task completion time and an at least one intermediate task having an intermediate task completion time and an intermediate task location, wherein the at least one mobile resource at least one intermediate task completion time is after the first task completion time and before the second task completion time, whereby the mobile resource performs the first task and the second task using a computer system having a communication link to determine a travel movement pathway between the first known location and the second known location, whereby the travel movement pathway is comprised of an actual travel movement pathway of the mobile resource having a time domain range from an earliest starting time to a latest ending time between the mobile resource and the first known location and the second known location, wherein the actual travel movement pathway has an at least one gap in travel movement between the first known location and the second known location, whereby the travel movement pathway is calibrated creating an increased location precision by at least 5% of the travel movement pathway as compared to the travel movement pathway without the at least one gap in travel movement retroactively used, and whereby the travel movement pathway with the calibrated increased location precision is used to retroactively improve an accuracy of the travel movement pathway for a future utilization of the mobile resource along at least a segment of the travel movement pathway or to establish a pattern of travel times between the first location and the second location.
10. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 9 wherein the actual travel movement pathway has an at least one probability gradient geofence for the travel movement pathway between the first known location and the second known location.
11. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 9 whereby the actual travel movement pathway of the mobile resource is encrypted and contained within a distributed ledger and whereby the encryption utilizes an encryption key based on a specific mode within a location geofence.
12. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 9 whereby the actual travel movement pathway of the mobile resource is comprised of a real-time location and a non-real-time location adjustment whereby the non-real-time location adjustment improves the accuracy of the actual travel movement pathway by at least 5%.
13. A mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system comprised of an at least one mobile resource wherein the at least one mobile resource executes a first task at a first known location having a first task completion time and a second task at a second known location having a second task completion time and an at least one intermediate task at an intermediate known location and the at least one intermediate task has an intermediate task completion time, wherein the at least one mobile resource at least one intermediate task completion time is after the first task completion time and before the second task completion time, whereby the mobile resource performs each of the first task, second task, and at least one intermediate task using a computer system having a communication link to determine a travel movement pathway between the first known location and the second known location, whereby the travel movement pathway is an actual travel movement pathway of the mobile resource having a time domain whereby the time domain ranges from an earliest starting time to a latest ending time of the first known location and the second known location, or between a first mobile resource of the at least one mobile resource and a second mobile resource of the at least one mobile resource, wherein the travel movement pathway between the first known location and the second known location is further comprised of an at least one historic travel movement pathway record in which the at least one mobile resource has visited in the past, whereby the at least one historic travel movement pathway record includes frequency of visits per unit of time, time interval between visits including at least one of time average, time mean, shortest time or longest time between visits of the first known location, the second known location or the intermediate known location, and whereby the travel movement pathway is used for a future utilization of the travel movement pathway of the mobile resource. whereby the travel movement pathway is calibrated creating an increased location precision by at least 5% of the travel movement pathway as compared to the travel movement pathway without the at least one historic travel movement pathway, and whereby the travel movement pathway with the calibrated increased location precision is used to retroactively improve an accuracy of the travel movement pathway for a future utilization of the mobile resource along at least a segment of the travel movement pathway or to establish a pattern of travel times between the at least one of the first known location, the second known location or intermediate known location.
14. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 13 whereby the pattern of travel times is utilized to establish a specific error threshold time between a current travel movement pathway and the at least one historic travel movement pathway.
15. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 13 whereby a first specific data is segmented to the first known location and a second specific data is segmented to the second known location, whereby the first specific data and second specific data is segmented as a distributed ledger, and whereby the distributed ledger uses encryption and decryption keys based on an at least one known location or an at least one location mode.
16. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 15, whereby access to the first specific data is further segmented to the at least one location mode and the first known location, and whereby access to the second specific data is further segmented to the at least one location mode and the second known location, and whereby the encryption and decryption keys are dynamic and vary by an at least one intermediate location or an at least one intermediate location mode.
17. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 14 whereby the specific error threshold time determines the probability of an at least one indicator of financial stress or wellness.
18. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 17 whereby a specific consumption of food is optionally included in the at least one indicator of financial stress or wellness.
19. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 13 whereby the travel movement pathway of the mobile resource is dynamically altered for privacy using a location offset wherein the location offset is a function of an at least one of time, a mode within a geofence location, and a rules-based logic combining at least two of the time, the geofence location, and the mode within the geofence location.
20. The mobile resource dynamic location and data segmenting system according to claim 13 wherein the at least one mobile resource transports energy storage assets from the first known location to the second known location based on a consumption historic record as a function of time and a demand consumption historic record as a function of time of the second known location.
</claims>
</document>
