<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/4155,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OSTERHELD, THOMAS H.
QIAN JUN
CHERIAN, BENJAMIN
WISWELL, NICHOLAS
</assignee>

<inventors>
OSTERHELD, THOMAS H.
QIAN JUN
CHERIAN, BENJAMIN
WISWELL, NICHOLAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68987420
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Training Spectrum Generation for Machine Learning System for Spectrographic Monitoring
</title>

<abstract>
A method of generating training spectra for training of a neural network includes measuring a first plurality of training spectra from one or more sample substrates, measuring a characterizing value for each training spectra of the plurality of training spectra to generate a plurality of characterizing values with each training spectrum having an associated characterizing value, measuring a plurality of dummy spectra during processing of one or more dummy substrates, and generating a second plurality of training spectra by combining the first plurality of training spectra and the plurality of dummy spectra, there being a greater number of spectra in the second plurality of training spectra than in the first plurality of training spectra. Each training spectrum of the second plurality of training spectra having an associated characterizing value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of generating training spectra for training of a neural network, comprising: measuring a first plurality of training spectra from one or more sample substrates; measuring a characterizing value for each training spectra of the plurality of training spectra to generate a plurality of characterizing values with each training spectrum having an associated characterizing value; and generating a second plurality of training spectra by adding a plurality of different noise components to the first plurality of training spectra, there being a greater number of spectra in the second plurality of training spectra than in the first plurality of training spectra, each training spectrum of the second plurality of training spectra having an associated characterizing value.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the second plurality of training spectra includes adding a plurality of different noise components to each training spectrum from the first plurality of training spectra.
3. The method of claim 1, comprising measuring a plurality of dummy spectra during processing of one or more dummy substrates.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein adding the plurality of different noise components includes by combining the first plurality of training spectra and the plurality of dummy spectra.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the dummy substrates comprises blank semiconductor substrates.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the processing comprises chemical mechanical polishing.
7. A computer program product for generating spectra for training of a neural network, the computer program product tangibly embodied in a non-transitory computer readable media and comprising instructions for causing a processor to: receive a first plurality of training spectra and plurality of characterizing values, each training spectrum of the plurality of training spectra having an associated characterizing value from the plurality of characterizing values; and generate a second plurality of training spectra by adding a plurality of different noise components to the first plurality of training spectra, there being a greater number of spectra in the second plurality of training spectra than in the first plurality of training spectra, each training spectrum of the second plurality of training spectra having an associated characterizing value.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the instructions to generate the second plurality of training spectra include instructions to add a plurality of different noise components to each training spectrum from the first plurality of training spectra.
9. The computer program product of claim 7, comprising receive a plurality of dummy spectra representing spectra obtained from processing of one or more dummy substrates.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the instructions to add the plurality of different noise components include instructions to combine the first plurality of training spectra and the plurality of dummy spectra.
11. The computer program product of claim 7, comprising instructions to normalize the plurality of dummy spectra to generate a plurality of normalized dummy spectra.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the instructions for combining the first plurality of training spectra and the plurality dummy spectra comprise instructions to, for each normalized dummy spectrum from the plurality of normalized dummy spectra, multiply the normalized dummy spectrum by one of the first plurality of training spectra to generate one of the second plurality of training spectra.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, comprising instructions to multiply the normalized dummy spectrum by a randomly selected one of the first plurality of training spectra.
14. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the characterizing value comprises a thickness of an outermost layer of the substrate.
15. A method of controlling processing of a substrate, comprising: measuring a first plurality of training spectra from one or more sample substrates; measuring a characterizing value for each training spectra of the plurality of training spectra to generate a plurality of characterizing values with each training spectrum having an associated characterizing value; measuring a plurality of dummy spectra during processing of one or more dummy substrates; generating a second plurality of training spectra by combining the first plurality of training spectra and the plurality of dummy spectra, there being a greater number of spectra in the second plurality of training spectra than in the first plurality of training spectra, each training spectrum of the second plurality of training spectra having an associated characterizing value; training an artificial neural network using the second plurality of training spectra, the artificial neural network having a plurality of input nodes to a plurality of spectral values, an output node to output the characterizing value, and a plurality of hidden nodes connecting the input nodes to the output node; receiving, from an in-situ optical monitoring system, a measured spectrum of light reflected from a substrate undergoing processing that modifies a thickness of an outer layer of the substrate; generating a measured characterizing value for the measured spectrum by applying spectral values from the measured spectrum into the artificial neural network; and at least one of halting processing of the substrate or adjusting a processing parameter based on the characterizing value.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the processing comprises chemical mechanical polishing.
17. A computer program product for controlling processing of a substrate, the computer program product tangibly embodied in a non-transitory computer readable media and comprising instructions for causing a processor to: receive a first plurality of training spectra and plurality of characterizing values, each training spectrum of the plurality of training spectra having an associated characterizing value from the plurality of characterizing values; receive a plurality of dummy spectra representing spectra obtained from processing of one or more dummy substrates; generate a second plurality of training spectra by combining the first plurality of training spectra and the plurality of dummy spectra, there being a greater number of spectra in the second plurality of training spectra than in the first plurality of training spectra, each training spectrum of the second plurality of training spectra having an associated characterizing value; train an artificial neural network using the second plurality of training spectra, the artificial neural network having a plurality of input nodes to a plurality of spectral values, an output node to output the characterizing value, and a plurality of hidden nodes connecting the input nodes to the output node; receive, from an in-situ optical monitoring system, a measured spectrum of light reflected from a substrate undergoing processing that modifies a thickness of an outer layer of the substrate; generate a measured characterizing value for the measured spectrum by applying spectral values from the measured spectrum into the artificial neural network; and at least one of halt processing of the substrate or adjust a processing parameter based on the characterizing value.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, comprising instructions to reduce the dimensionality of the second plurality of training spectra to generate a plurality of spectral training values and to apply the spectra training values and the characterizing values associated with the second plurality of training spectra to the artificial neural network to train the artificial neural network.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the instructions to generate the measured characterizing value comprise instructions to reduce the dimensionality of the measured spectrum to generate the spectral values.
20. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the characterizing value comprises a thickness of an outermost layer of the substrate.
</claims>
</document>
