<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/30,G06F17/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VMWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUSHMERICK, NICHOLAS
POGHOSYAN, ARNAK
HARUTYUNYAN, ASHOT NSHAN
GRIGORYAN, NAIRA MOVSES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72917066
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROCESSES AND SYSTEMS THAT DETECT ABNORMAL BEHAVIOR OF OBJECTS OF A DISTRIBUTED COMPUTING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Automated processes and systems for detecting abnormally behaving objects of a distributed computing system are described. Processes and systems obtain metrics that are generated in a historical time window and are associated with an object of the distributed computing system. Processes and system use the metrics to compute a time-dependent system indicator over the historical time window. Each value of the system indicator corresponds to a point in time of the historical time window when the object was in a normal or an abnormal state. Processes and systems use the normal and abnormal states of the system indicator in the historical time window to train a state classifier that is used to detect run-time abnormal behavior of the object. When the state classifier identifies abnormal behavior of the object, an alert is generated, indicating the abnormal behavior of the object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. In a process that detects abnormal behavior of an object of a distributed computing system using metrics associated with the object and recorded in a historical time window, the improvement comprising: applying a principal component analysis technique to the metrics to determine principal components of the metrics in the historical time window; for each time stamp in the historical time window, computing a system-indicator value for the object based on principal component values of the principal components at the time stamp, each system-indicator value identifying an abnormal or normal state of the object at a time stamp in the historical time window; computing a state classifier for the object based on the system-indicator values and corresponding time stamps in the historical time window; using the state classifier to detect abnormal behavior of the object based on a run-time metrics associated with the object: and generating an alert that identifies abnormal behavior of the object in response to detection of abnormal behavior of the object by the state classifier, thereby enabling identification of the abnormal behavior of the object.
2. The process of claim 1 further comprising: deleting constant and nearly constant metrics from the metrics; and synchronizing the metrics to a general sequence of time stamps.
3. The process of claim 2 wherein deleting the constant and nearly constant metrics in the metrics comprises: computing a standard deviation for each metric in the metric data; and deleting each metric with a standard deviation less than a standard deviation threshold.
4. The process of claim 1 wherein applying the principal component analysis technique to the metrics comprises: for each metric of the metrics computing a mean of metric values of the metric, and subtracting the mean from each metric value of the metric to obtain a mean-centered metric; computing a deviation matrix based on the mean-centered metrics; computing eigenvalues and eigenvectors for the deviation matrix; computing the principal components of the deviation matrix based on the eigenvalues and eigenvectors; and identifying high-variance principal components of the principal components.
5. The process of claim 4 wherein identifying the high-variance principal components of the principal components comprises: computing a variance for each principal component; computing a percentage of variance for each subset of principal components, each subset comprising a different number of principal components with the largest corresponding variances; determining a smallest percentage of variances that is greater than a percentage of variance threshold; and identifying the principal components that correspond to the smallest percentage of variances as the high-variance principal components.
6. The process of claim 1 wherein computing the state classifier for the object comprises: computing a bound for the system-indicator values; labeling system-indicator values that violate the bound as abnormal system-indicator values; labeling system-indicator values that do not violate the bound as normal system-indicator values; computing a support vector machine matrix based the outlier and normal system-indicator values; computing the state classifier based on the support vector machine matrix.
7. The process of claim 1 wherein using the state classifier to detect abnormal behavior of the object comprises: deleting constant and nearly constant metrics from the run-time metrics: synchronizing the run-time metrics to a general sequence of time stamps: computing a run-time mean-centered metrics based on the synchronized and non-constant sets of metrics: computing run-time principal components of the run-time mean-centered metrics; computing a run-time system indicator based on the run-time principal components; and applying the state classifier to the run-time system-indicator values to detect abnormal behavior of the object.
8. A computer system to detect abnormal behavior of an object of a distributed computing system, the system comprising: one or more processors: one or more data-storage devices; and machine-readable instructions stored in the one or more data-storage devices that when executed using the one or more processors controls the system performs operations comprising: retrieving metrics associated with the object and recorded in a historical time window from the one or more data-storage devices; applying a principal component analysis technique on the metrics to determine principal components of the metrics in the historical time window; for each time stamp in the historical time window, computing a system-indicator value for the object based on principal component values of the principal components at the time stamp, each system-indicator value identifying an abnormal or normal state of the object at a time stamp in the historical time window; computing a state classifier for the object based on the system-indicator values and corresponding time stamps in the historical time window; using the state classifier to detect abnormal behavior of the object based on a run-time metrics associated with the object; and generating an alert that identifies abnormal behavior of the object in response to detection of abnormal behavior of the object by the state classifier.
9. The computer system of claim 8 further comprising: deleting constant and nearly constant metrics from the metrics; and synchronizing the metrics to a general sequence of time stamps.
10. The computer system of claim 9 wherein deleting the constant and nearly constant metrics in the metrics comprises: computing a standard deviation for each metric in the metric data; and deleting each metric with a standard deviation less than a standard deviation threshold.
11. The computer system of claim 8 wherein applying the principal component analysis technique to the metrics comprises: for each metric of the metrics computing a mean of metric values of the metric, and subtracting the mean from each metric value of the metric to obtain a mean-centered metric; computing a deviation matrix based on the mean-centered metrics; computing eigenvalues and eigenvectors for the deviation matrix; computing the principal components of the deviation matrix based on the eigenvalues and eigenvectors; and identifying high-variance principal components of the principal components.
12. The computer system of claim 11 wherein identifying the high-variance principal components of the principal components comprises: computing a variance for each principal component; computing a percentage of variance for each subset of principal components, each subset comprising a different number of principal components with the largest corresponding variances; determining a smallest percentage of variances that is greater than a percentage of variance threshold; and identifying the principal components that correspond to the smallest percentage of variances as the high-variance principal components.
13. The computer system of claim 8 wherein computing the state classifier for the object comprises: computing a bound for the system-indicator values; labeling system-indicator values that violate the bound as abnormal system-indicator values; labeling system-indicator values that do not violate the bound as normal system-indicator values; computing a support vector machine matrix based the outlier and normal system-indicator values: computing the state classifier based on the support vector machine matrix.
14. The computer system of claim 8 wherein using the state classifier to detect abnormal behavior of the object comprises: deleting constant and nearly constant metrics from the run-time metrics; synchronizing the run-time metrics to a general sequence of time stamp; computing a run-time mean-centered metrics based on the synchronized and non-constant sets of metrics; computing run-time principal components of the run-time mean-centered metrics; computing a run-time system indicator based on the run-time principal components; and applying the state classifier to the run-time system-indicator values to detect abnormal behavior of the object.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium encoded with machine-readable instructions that implement a method carried out by one or more processors of a computer system that performs operations comprising: retrieving a metrics associated with the object and recorded in a historical time window from the one or more data-storage devices; applying a principal component analysis technique on the metrics to determine principal components of the metrics in the historical time window; for each time stamp in the historical time window, computing a system-indicator value for the object based on principal component values of the principal components at the time stamp, each system-indicator value identifying an abnormal or normal state of the object at a time stamp in the historical time window; computing a state classifier for the object based on the system-indicator values and corresponding time stamps in the historical time window; using the state classifier to detect abnormal behavior of the object based on a run-time metrics associated with the object; and generating an alert that identifies abnormal behavior of the object in response to detection of abnormal behavior of the object by the state classifier.
16. The medium of claim 15 further comprising: deleting constant and nearly constant metrics from the metrics; and synchronizing the metrics to a general sequence of time stamps.
17. The medium of claim 16 wherein deleting the constant and nearly constant metrics in the metrics comprises: computing a standard deviation for each metric in the metric data; and deleting each metric with a standard deviation less than a standard deviation threshold.
18. The medium of claim 15 wherein applying the principal component analysis technique to the metrics comprises: for each metric of the metrics computing a mean of metric values of the metric; and subtracting the mean from each metric value of the metric to obtain a mean-centered metric; computing a deviation matrix based on the mean-centered metrics; computing eigenvalues and eigenvectors for the deviation matrix; computing the principal components of the deviation matrix based on the eigenvalues and eigenvectors; and identifying high-variance principal components of the principal components.
19. The medium of claim 18 wherein identifying the high-variance principal components of the principal components comprises: computing a variance for each principal component; computing a percentage of variance for each subset of principal components, each subset comprising a different number of principal components with the largest corresponding variances; determining a smallest percentage of variances that is greater than a percentage of variance threshold; and identifying the principal components that correspond to the smallest percentage of variances as the high-variance principal components.
20. The medium of claim 15 wherein computing the state classifier for the object comprises: computing a bound for the system-indicator values; labeling system-indicator values that violate the bound as abnormal system-indicator values; labeling system-indicator values that do not violate the bound as normal system-indicator values; computing a support vector machine matrix based the outlier and normal system-indicator values; computing the state classifier based on the support vector machine matrix.
21. The medium of claim 15 wherein using the state classifier to detect abnormal behavior for of the object comprises: deleting constant and nearly constant metrics from the run-time metrics; synchronizing the run-time metrics to a general sequence of time stamps; computing a run-time mean-centered metrics based on the synchronized and non-constant sets of metrics; computing run-time principal components of the run-time mean-centered metrics; computing a run-time system indicator based on the run-time principal components; and applying the state classifier to the run-time system-indicator values to detect abnormal behavior of the object.
</claims>
</document>
