<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY
CHANDRAN, SREENITHY
JAYASURIYA, SUREN
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHANDRAN, SREENITHY
JAYASURIYA, SUREN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71516098
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ADAPTIVE LIGHTING FOR DATA-DRIVEN NON-LINE-OF-SIGHT THREE-DIMENSIONAL CAPABILITIES
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments for system and method of adaptive lighting for data-driven non-line-of-sight imaging are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for identifying optimal line-of-sight lighting patches, the system comprising: a light source, wherein the light source is configured for casting an illuminated spot on a wall; a detector for capturing an image of the illuminated spot, wherein the illuminated spot undergoes at least three diffuse reflections; a processor in operative communication with the detector and configured for executing instructions including: dividing an illuminated spot illuminated on a wall by a light source into a plurality of patches, wherein the wall is within a line of sight of the detector; determining a radiosity value for each of the plurality of patches associated with light transfer between the light source, the wall, a non-line-of-sight (NLOS) object, and the detector, wherein the NLOS object is not within the line of sight of the detector; and identifying a set of patches which maximize radiosity associated with the NLOS object using an optimization function.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the illuminated spot travels from the point on the wall to the NLOS object and back to the wall for detection by the detector.
3. A method for identifying optimal line-of-sight light patches, the method comprising: dividing an illumination scene illuminated on a wall by a light source into a plurality of patches; determining a total non-line-of-sight NLOS radiosity value associated with light transfer onto the wall from an NLOS object for each of the plurality of patches; determining a total line-of-sight (LOS) radiosity value associated with light transfer from the wall onto the wall for each of the plurality of patches; and identifying a set of patches which maximize radiosity associated with the NLOS object using an optimization function.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: identifying a surface normal vector and a surface area for each of the plurality of patches; determining a view factor value associated with a first patch using the surface normal vector and the surface area of the first patch and an adjacent patch for each of the plurality of patches, wherein the view factor value indicates a quantity of light which is transferred from a second patch to the first patch; and determining a visibility factor value associated with the first patch and the second patch for each of the plurality of patches, wherein the visibility factor value is zero if the first patch is not visible from the second patch and wherein the visibility factor is one if the first patch is visible from the second patch.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein a first bounce radiosity value is determined for an ith patch using a diffuse reflectance of the wall, a first radiosity of incident light directly from the light source, the view factor value, the visibility factor value, and the surface area of the ith patch.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the first bounce radiosity value is representative of an amount of power leaving the ith patch.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein a second LOS bounce radiosity value is determined for a jth patch using a diffuse reflectance of the wall, the first bounce radiosity of the ith patch, the view factor value, the visibility factor value, and the surface area of the jth patch.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the second LOS bounce radiosity value is representative of an amount of power leaving the second patch after being reflected from the first patch onto the second patch.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the third LOS bounce radiosity value associated with light transfer from the object to the wall is determined for a kth patch using a diffuse reflectance of the wall, the second LOS bounce radiosity of the jth patch, the view factor value, the visibility factor value, and the surface area of the kth patch.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the third LOS bounce radiosity value is representative of an amount of power leaving the kth patch after being reflected from the jth patch to the kth patch.
11. The method of claim 5, wherein the second NLOS bounce radiosity value is estimated using a diffuse reflectance of the object, the first bounce radiosity of the ith patch, the view factor value between the ith patch to the object, the visibility factor value, and the surface area of the object.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the second NLOS bounce radiosity value is representative of an amount of power leaving the object after being reflected from the ith patch onto the object.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the third NLOS bounce radiosity value associated with light transfer from the object to the wall is determined for an rth patch using a diffuse reflectance of the wall, the second NLOS bounce radiosity of the object, the view factor value, the visibility factor value, and the surface area of the rth patch.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the third NLOS bounce radiosity value is representative of an amount of power leaving the rth patch after being reflected from the object to the rth patch.
15. The method of claim 3, wherein the illumination scene is captured by the detector.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the detector is in operative communication with a processor such that the illumination scene captured by the detector is communicated to the processor.
17. The method of claim 3, wherein the optimization function maximizes radiosity associated with the NLOS object such that a sum of illumination radiant exitance values for each of the plurality of patches is equal to a total illumination power constraint value.
18. The method of claim 3, wherein the optimization function is optimized using sequential least squares programming.
19. A system for localization and identification of non-line-of-sight objects using adaptive lighting, the system comprising: an adaptive lighting system comprising: a light source, wherein the light source is operable for illuminating an illuminated spot on a wall; and a detector for capturing an image of the illuminated spot, wherein the illuminated spot undergoes at least three diffuse reflections; a first neural network in communication with the detector of the adaptive lighting system for determining a location of a centroid of an object; and a second neural network in communication with the detector of the adaptive lighting system for identification of the object.
20. The system of claim 19, further comprising: a processor in operative communication with the detector and operable for executing instructions including: dividing the illumination scene illuminated on a wall by a light source into a plurality of patches, wherein the wall is within a line of sight of a detector; determining a radiosity value for each of the plurality of patches associated with light transfer between the light source, the wall, the object, and the detector, wherein the object is not within the line of sight of the detector; and identifying a set of patches which maximize radiosity associated with the object using an optimization function.
</claims>
</document>
