<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61C13/00,A61C7/00,G01N21/956,G06T17/10,G06T7/00,G06T7/521
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIGN TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHERKAS, ANDREY
DUMOTHIER, STEPHAN ALBERT ALEXANDRE
KALINICHENKO, ALEXEY
KHARPALEV, IVAN
PARPARA, ANATOLIY
SHAW, JACK
VELAZQUEZ, ISRAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65897827
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ALIGNER IMAGE BASED QUALITY CONTROL SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A method for analyzing a quality of an orthodontic aligner is described. The method includes receiving, by a processor, a digital representation of a fabricated orthodontic aligner, the digital representation having been generated based on imaging of the fabricated orthodontic aligner. The method further includes analyzing, by the processor, the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner to identify a quality-related property of the fabricated orthodontic aligner. The method further includes determining, based on the quality-related property, that the fabricated orthodontic aligner comprises a manufacturing flaw. The method further includes classifying, by the processor, the fabricated orthodontic aligner as requiring further inspection by a technician based on determining that the fabricated orthodontic aligner comprises the manufacturing flaw.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for analyzing a quality of an orthodontic aligner, the method comprising: receiving, by a processor, a digital representation of a fabricated orthodontic aligner, the digital representation having been generated based on imaging of the fabricated orthodontic aligner; analyzing, by the processor, the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner to identify a quality-related property of the fabricated orthodontic aligner; determining, based on the quality-related property, that the fabricated orthodontic aligner comprises a manufacturing flaw; and classifying, by the processor, the fabricated orthodontic aligner as requiring further inspection by a technician based on determining that the fabricated orthodontic aligner comprises the manufacturing flaw.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: comparing, by the processor, the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner with a digital file comprising trimming instructions used to trim the fabricated orthodontic aligner along a cutline; and determining, based on the comparison, whether the fabricated orthodontic aligner was trimmed within a tolerance of an intended cutline.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the comparison comprises: comparing, by the processor, a virtual cutline to the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner, the virtual cutline based on the digital file; and determining, by the processor, whether the virtual cutline corresponds to an edge of the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the comparison comprises: overlaying, by the processor, a virtual cutline from the digital file with the digital representation of the orthodontic aligner; and calculating, by the processor, one or more difference between a virtual edge determined from the virtual cutline and an edge of the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner includes one or more two-dimensional images corresponding to one or more views of the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: comparing, by the processor, an image from among the one or more two-dimensional images of the fabricated orthodontic aligner with a projection of a virtual three-dimensional (3D) model associated with the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner comprises a three-dimensional (3D) representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: comparing, by the processor, the 3D representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner with a virtual 3D model associated with a dental arch of a corresponding patient.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein surface features of the fabricated orthodontic aligner are enhanced via illumination to facilitate capture of the surface features when generating the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
10. A system for analyzing a quality of a orthodontic aligner, the system comprising: a processor and memory coupled to the processor and storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: receive a digital representation of a fabricated orthodontic aligner, the digital representation having been generated based on imaging of the fabricated orthodontic aligner; analyze the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner to identify a quality-related property of the fabricated orthodontic aligner; determine, based on the quality-related property, that the fabricated orthodontic aligner comprises a manufacturing flaw; and classify the fabricated orthodontic aligner as defective based on determining that the fabricated orthodontic aligner comprises the manufacturing flaw.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: perform a comparison of the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner with a digital file comprising trimming instructions used to trim the fabricated orthodontic aligner along a cutline; and determine, based on the comparison, whether the fabricated orthodontic aligner was trimmed within a tolerance of an intended cutline.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein to perform the comparison, the instructions further cause the processor to: compare a virtual cutline to the digital representation of the orthodontic aligner, the virtual cutline based on the digital file; and determine whether the virtual cutline corresponds to an edge of the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein to perform the comparison, the instructions further cause the processor to: overlay a virtual cutline from the digital file with the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner; and calculate one or more difference between a virtual edge determined from the virtual cutline and an edge of the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner includes one or more two-dimensional images corresponding to one or more views of the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: compare an image from among the one or more two-dimensional images of the fabricated orthodontic aligner with a projection of a virtual three-dimensional (3D) model associated with the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner comprises a three-dimensional (3D) representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: compare the 3D representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner with a virtual 3D model associated with a dental arch of a corresponding patient.
18. The system of claim 10, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: determine a difference between a location on the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner and a corresponding location on a 3D model associated with a dental arch of a corresponding patient; and determine whether the difference exceeds a threshold.
19. The system of claim 10, wherein surface features of the fabricated orthodontic aligner are enhanced via illumination to facilitate capture of the surface features when generating the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
20. A quality control system comprising: an image capture device configured to generate a digital representation of a fabricated orthodontic aligner; a light source configured to illuminate the fabricated orthodontic aligner in a manner that enhances an image quality of the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner; and a computing device to: analyze a quality-related property of the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner; determine, based on the quality-related property, that the fabricated orthodontic aligner comprises a manufacturing flaw; and classify the fabricated orthodontic aligner as defective based on determining that the fabricated orthodontic aligner comprises the manufacturing flaw.
21. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: receiving, by the processor, a digital representation of a fabricated orthodontic aligner, the digital representation having been generated based on imaging of the fabricated orthodontic aligner; analyzing, by the processor, the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner to identify a quality-related property of the fabricated orthodontic aligner; determining, based on the quality-related property, that the fabricated orthodontic aligner comprises a manufacturing flaw; and classifying, by the processor, the fabricated orthodontic aligner as requiring further inspection by a technician based on determining that the fabricated orthodontic aligner comprises the manufacturing flaw.
22. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 21, the operations further comprising: comparing, by the processor, the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner with a digital file comprising trimming instructions used to trim the fabricated orthodontic aligner along a cutline; and determining, based on the comparison, whether the fabricated orthodontic aligner was trimmed within a tolerance of an intended cutline.
23. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 22, wherein the comparison comprises: comparing, by the processor, a virtual cutline to the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner, the virtual cutline based on the digital file; and determining, by the processor, whether the virtual cutline corresponds to an edge of the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
24. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 22, wherein the comparison comprises: overlaying, by the processor, a virtual cutline from the digital file with the digital representation of the orthodontic aligner; and calculating, by the processor, one or more difference between a virtual edge determined from the virtual cutline and an edge of the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
25. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 21, wherein the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner includes one or more two-dimensional images corresponding to one or more views of the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
26. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 25, the operations further comprising: comparing, by the processor, an image from among the one or more two-dimensional images of the fabricated orthodontic aligner with a virtual three-dimensional (3D) model associated with the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
27. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 21, wherein the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner comprises a three-dimensional (3D) representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
28. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 27, the operations further comprising: comparing, by the processor, the 3D representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner with a virtual 3D model associated with a dental arch of a corresponding patient.
29. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 21, wherein surface features of the fabricated orthodontic aligner are enhanced via illumination to facilitate capture of the surface features when generating the digital representation of the fabricated orthodontic aligner.
</claims>
</document>
