<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CITRIX SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAUHAN, ABHISHEK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70550581
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PERFORMANCE BUG AND GRIEVANCE REPORTS FOR SAAS APPLICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for reporting performance issues or grievances of network applications on client devices are provided. A first server of a first entity receives, from a client application on a client device, a data package including embedded browser activity of an embedded browser of the client application captured responsive to a capture trigger detected by the client application. The embedded browser activity relates to a network application of a second server of a second entity. The first server identifies, based on the embedded browser activity included in the data package, the network application to which the embedded browser activity corresponds. The first server generates, responsive to a report generation trigger corresponding to the network application, an error report based on the data package. The error report is then transmitted via a connection established between the first server and the one or more second servers corresponding to the network application.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for reporting performance of network applications on client devices, the method comprising: receiving, by a first server of a first entity, from a client application on a client device, a data package including embedded browser activity of an embedded browser of the client application captured responsive to a capture trigger detected by the client application, the embedded browser activity relating to a network application of one or more second servers of a second entity; identifying, by the first server based on the embedded browser activity included in the data package, the network application to which the embedded browser activity corresponds; generating, by the first server responsive to a report generation trigger corresponding to the identified network application, an error report based on the data package; and transmitting the error report via a connection established between the first server and the one or more second servers corresponding to the network application.
2. The method of claim 1, the report generation trigger including at least one of (a) having received a threshold number of data packages from the client application on the client device, and (b) having received the threshold number of data packages from a threshold count of further client applications on further client devices.
3. The method of claim 1, the error report including a screen recording comprising a video of screen display elements and associated user interactions.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the first server, a second data package including second embedded browser activity of a second embedded browser of a second client application captured responsive to a second capture trigger detected by the second client application; and wherein generating the error report includes generating, by the first server responsive to the report generation trigger, the error report based on the data package and the second data package.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the data package comprises data from the client application on the client device and from a second client application on the client device, both provided via the embedded browser.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the capture trigger comprises at least one of (a) a user selection of a real-time capture mode, or (b) a remote support connection request from the first server.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the error report comprises performing machine learning analysis on the data package to (a) map a clickstream to an error dialog box, or (b) identify textual characters corresponding to an error message and to characterize the error message according to a first heuristic model.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising terminating the connection between the first server and the one or more second servers after transmitting the error report.
9. A system for reporting performance of a network application on a client device, the system comprising: a first server of a first entity configured to receive from a client application on a client device, a data package including embedded browser activity of an embedded browser of the client application captured responsive to a capture trigger detected by the client application, the embedded browser activity relating to a network application of one or more second servers of a second entity; identify, based on the embedded browser activity included in the data package, the network application to which the embedded browser activity corresponds; generate, responsive to a report generation trigger corresponding to the identified network application, an error report based on the data package; and transmit the error report via a connection established between the first server and the one or more second servers corresponding to the network application.
10. The system of claim 9, the report generation trigger including at least one of (a) having received a threshold number of data packages from the client application on the client device, or (b) having received the threshold number of data packages from a threshold count of further client applications on further client devices.
11. The system of claim 9, the report generation trigger including: a bug reporting request from the one or more second servers
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the first server is further configured to: receive a second data package from a second client application on a second client device via a second embedded browser of the second client application on the further second device; and wherein to generate the error report, the first server is further configured to generate, responsive to the report generation trigger, the error report based on the data package and the second data package.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the data package comprises data from the client application on the client device and from a second client application on the client device, both provided via the embedded browser.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the capture trigger comprises (a) a user selection of a real-time capture mode, or (b) a remote support connection request from the first server.
15. The system for reporting performance of the network applications on the client devices according to claim 9, wherein the generating the error report comprises performing machine learning analysis on the data package to (a) map a clickstream to an error dialog box, or (b) identify textual characters corresponding to an error message and to characterize the error message according to a first heuristic model.
16. The system for reporting performance of the network application on the client device according to claim 9, the system comprising: the first server of the first entity further configured to disconnect the connection to the second server after the transmitting the error report.
17. A method for reporting performance of network applications on client devices, the method comprising: monitoring, by a client application on a client device in communication with a first server of a first entity via an embedded browser of the client application, embedded browser activity captured responsive to a capture trigger detected by the client application, the embedded browser activity relating to a network application of one or more second servers of a second entity; generating, by the client application, a data package including the captured embedded browser activity; identifying, by the client application based on the embedded browser activity included in the data package, the network application to which the embedded browser activity corresponds; and transmitting, by the client application, the data package including the captured embedded browser activity to the first server or the one or more second servers corresponding to the network application.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the capture trigger comprises (a) a user selection of a real-time capture mode, or (b) a remote support connection request from the first server.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising: generating, by at least one of the client application and the first server, responsive to a report generation trigger corresponding to the identified network application, an error report based on the data package.
20. The method of claim 17, further comprising: receiving, by at least one of the first server and the client application, a bug reporting request from the one or more second server of the second entity, and wherein transmitting the data package further comprises transmitting the data package in response to the receiving the bug reporting request.
</claims>
</document>
