<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAMBRICON TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG XIAO
WANG JIN
ZHANG, SHIJIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66405039
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NETWORK STRUCTURE PROCESSING METHOD AND DEVICE AND RELATED PRODUCTS
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure relates to a network structure processing method and device and a related product, including: obtaining, by a computer device, an optimization instruction; and executing a corresponding optimization processing operation on the network structure according to the optimization level in the optimization instruction to obtain an optimized network structure. According to the processing method of the network structure, the resource cost can be reduced, and the detection rate of the network structure on images is improved.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A network structure processing method comprising: obtaining an optimization instruction; and optimizing a network structure according to an optimization level in the optimization instruction.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein optimizing the network structure according to the optimization level in the optimization instruction includes: when the optimization level is a first optimization level, deleting a redundant layer in the network structure to obtain a first optimized network structure.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein optimizing the network structure according to the optimization level in the optimization instruction includes: when the optimization level is a second optimization level, and when the network structure includes at least one network structure of: a structure with two continuous layers including a convolution layer and a batch norm layer, a structure with two continuous layers including a convolution layer and a scale layer, and a structure with three continuous layers including a convolution layer, a batch norm layer, and a scale layer, deleting a redundant layer in the network structure, and optimizing model parameters in the convolution layer to obtain a second optimization network structure.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein optimizing the network structure according to the optimization level in the optimization instruction includes: when the optimization level is a second optimization level, and when the network structure does not include any of the following network structures: a structure with two continuous layers including a convolution layer and a batch norm layer, a structure with two continuous layers including a convolution layer and a scale layer, and a structure with three continuous layers including a convolution layer, a batch norm layer, and a scale layer, deleting a redundant layer in the network structure to obtain a first optimized network structure.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein deleting the redundant layer in the network structure includes: determining whether the network structure includes a detection output layer, when the network structure includes a detection output layer, identifying the redundant layer in the network structure, and deleting the redundant layer in the network structure according to the identification result and adding an SSD detection layer to the network structure, wherein the SSD detection layer is used for configuring a default box, splicing feature maps, and outputting a detection result.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein determining whether the network structure includes a detection output layer includes: obtaining type information of a last structure layer of the network structure, and determining whether the last structure layer is the detection output layer according to the type information.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein identifying the redundant layer in the network structure includes: according to a preset search path, starting from the detection output layer to obtain type information of each structure layer in all paths connected to the detection output layer, and identifying the redundant layer in the network structure according to the type information of each layer.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein deleting the redundant layer in the network structure further includes: deleting the redundant layer in the network structure, and updating connections between other structure layers except the redundant layer of the network structure to obtain a network structure after deletion, and using the SSD detection layer to replace the detection output layer of the network structure after deletion.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the redundant layer includes: a default box configuration layer, a splicing layer, a permute layer, and a flatten layer.
10. The method of claim 3, wherein optimizing the model parameters in the convolution layer includes: obtaining first configuration parameters and second configuration parameters, wherein the first configuration parameters include first training parameters of the batch norm layer and second training parameters of the batch norm layer, and the second configuration parameters include first training parameters of the scale layer and second training parameters of the scale layer, fusing the first training parameters of the batch norm layer, the first training parameters of the scale layer, and weight parameters of the convolution layer to obtain a first fusion result, fusing the second training parameters of the batch norm layer, the second training parameters of the scale layer, and bias parameters of the convolution layer to obtain a second fusion result, and optimizing a convolution neural network according to the first fusion result and the second fusion result.
11. The method of claim 3, wherein optimizing the model parameters in the convolution layer includes: obtaining configuration parameters, wherein the configuration parameters include first training parameters of the batch norm layer and second training parameters of the batch norm layer, fusing the first training parameters of the batch norm layer and weight parameters of the convolution layer to obtain a first fusion result, fusing the second training parameters of the batch norm layer and bias parameters of the convolution layer to obtain a second fusion result, and optimizing a convolution neural network according to the first fusion result and the second fusion result.
12. The method of claim 3, wherein optimizing the model parameters in the convolution layer includes: obtaining configuration parameters, wherein the configuration parameters include first training parameters of the scale layer and second training parameters of the scale layer, fusing the first training parameters of the scale layer and weight parameters of the convolution layer to obtain a first fusion result, fusing the second training parameters of the scale layer and bias parameters of the convolution layer to obtain a second fusion result, and optimizing a convolution neural network according to the first fusion result and the second fusion result.
13. 13-17. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
