<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W60/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS OPERATING
</assignee>

<inventors>
SEVINDIK, VOLKAN
Mechineni, Vijay Kumar
Oduwaiye, Muhib
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74101843
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WI-FI ACCESS POINT COORDINATED TRANSMISSION OF DATA
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus and methods for access point coordination of data transmissions within a wireless local area network (WLAN). In one embodiment, a method of managing a WLAN using an access point (AP) coordination system. The AP coordination system accepts client device requests through their associated APs and coordinates one or more APs within the WLAN to fulfill the client requests, without forcing the client devices to associate with different APs. The APs fulfilling a client device request are masked under the BSSID of the client-associated AP.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of managing a wireless local area network having a plurality of access points (APs), the method comprising: establishing an association between a client device and a first AP of the plurality of APs; accepting a request to transact data from the client device through the first AP; and fulfilling the request using two or more of the plurality of APs.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the fulfilling the request using two or more of the plurality of APs comprises utilizing a common BSSID (Basic Service Set Identifier) and passkey data for each of the two or more APs.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the utilizing a common BSSID and passkey data for each of the two or more APs comprises using a BSSID and passkey data associated with the established association between the client device and the first AP.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the fulfilling the request using the two or more of the plurality of APs comprises sending instructions to the one or more of the plurality of APs comprising: (I an optimized transmission schedule for the request and (ii) identification data associated with the first AP.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the request comprises data indicative of a required time for transacting the data associated with the request.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the two or more of the plurality of APs does not include the first AP.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the fulfilling the request comprises: creating a directory of APs; obtaining schedule data from the directory of APs; and creating a transmission schedule for the request, based on the schedule data from the directory of APs.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the fulfilling the request comprises creating the directory of APs by at least assessing the plurality of APs to determine a signal strength associated with each AP for the client device.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein creating the directory of APs comprising ranking the plurality of APs according to the signal strength, and leaving out the directory APs whose signal strength falls below a threshold signal strength.
10. An access point (AP) apparatus configured for use within at least one local area network, comprising: a wireless transceiver configured to utilize a wireless local area network (WLAN) air interface protocol; a processor apparatus in data communication with the wireless transceiver; and a storage apparatus in data communication with the processor apparatus and having a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, the storage medium comprising at least one computer program having a plurality of instructions configured to, when executed by the processor apparatus, cause the AP apparatus to: receive at least one request issued from a wireless-enabled client device to the AP apparatus, the at least one request relating to transaction of at least user data between the AP apparatus and the wireless-enabled client apparatus; evaluate at least a portion of the received at least one request to determine at least a sufficiency of the AP apparatus to service the request; and based at least in part on the evaluation, cause: (i) generation of at least one message for transmission to a wireless apparatus associated with the at least one local area network, the at least one message comprising data relating to an association between the AP apparatus and the wireless-enabled client device, and configured to cause the wireless apparatus to utilize the data relating to an association to enable transaction of the at least user data between the wireless apparatus and the wireless enabled client device substantially in parallel with the transaction of the at least user data between the AP apparatus and the wireless-enabled client device; and (ii) transmission of the at least one message to the wireless apparatus.
11. The AP apparatus of claim 10, wherein the plurality of instructions are further configured to, when executed by the processor apparatus, cause the AP apparatus to maintain a registry or listing of at least a portion of AP apparatus within the at least one local area network.
12. The AP apparatus of claim 11, wherein the plurality of instructions are further configured to, when executed by the processor apparatus, cause the AP apparatus to select the wireless apparatus from the registry or listing.
13. The AP apparatus of claim 12, wherein the plurality of instructions are further configured to, when executed by the processor apparatus, cause the AP apparatus to perform the selection of the wireless apparatus from the registry or listing based at least on algorithmic evaluation of one or more parameters associated with each of the at least portion of AP apparatus within the registry or listing, the one or more parameters selected from the group consisting of: (i) historical data relating to association with the wireless enabled client device; and (ii) current availability status.
14. The AP apparatus of claim 10, wherein the wireless apparatus comprises a commodity WLAN AP apparatus, and the at least one computer program of the AP apparatus comprises firmware disposed onto the AP apparatus after its manufacture.
15. The AP apparatus of claim 10, wherein the transmission of the at least one message to the wireless apparatus comprises transmission via a wireline data network interface between the AP apparatus and the wireless apparatus.
16. The AP apparatus of claim 15, wherein the wireline data network interface comprises a protocol specifying network addresses for each of the AP apparatus and the wireless apparatus within the at least one local area network, and the transmission comprises transmission to a network address of the wireless apparatus.
17. The AP apparatus of claim 10, wherein the data relating to an association between the AP apparatus and the wireless-enabled client device comprises at least a BSSID (Basic Service Set Identifier) and passkey data.
18. An access point (AP) controller apparatus configured for use with at least one local area network, comprising: a processor apparatus; and a storage apparatus in data communication with the processor apparatus and having a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, the storage medium comprising at least one computer program having a plurality of instructions configured to, when executed by the processor apparatus, cause the AP controller apparatus to: register a plurality of access points (APs) located in the at least one local area network, process a request issued from a client device and forwarded by a first of the plurality of APs to the AP controller apparatus; to identify one or more of the registered plurality of access points to allocate to the request, and transmit data to the identified one or more of the plurality of APs enabling servicing of the request by at least the identified one or more APs and the first AP.
19. The AP controller of claim 18, wherein the client device is associated with the first AP, and the transmitted data includes instructions for the one or more of the plurality of APs to transact data under an identification of the first AP.
20. The AP controller of claim 19, wherein the AP controller apparatus is integrated with one or the plurality of access points.
</claims>
</document>
