<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R15/20,H02H1/00,H02H3/33
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMBER SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
TELEFUS, MARK
GERBER, STEPHEN C.
Baker, Damon M.
Alton, Kenneth D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73228389
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT CIRCUIT BREAKERS
</title>

<abstract>
A circuit breaker includes an electromechanical switch, a current sensor, a voltage sensor, and a processor. The electromechanical switch is serially connected between a line input terminal and a load output terminal of the circuit breaker, and configured to be placed in a switched-closed state or a switched-open state. The current sensor is configured to sense a magnitude of current flowing in a path between the line input and load output terminals and generate a current sense signal. The voltage sensor is configured to sense a magnitude of voltage at a point on the path between the line input and load output terminals and generate a voltage sense signal. The processor is configured to receive and process the current sense signal and the voltage sense signal to determine operational status information of the circuit breaker and determine power usage information of a load connected to the load output terminal.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A circuit breaker, comprising: an electromechanical switch serially connected between a line input terminal and a load output terminal of the circuit breaker, and configured to be placed in one of (i) a switched-closed state and (ii) a switched-open state; a current sensor configured to sense a magnitude of current flowing in an electrical path between the line input terminal and the load output terminal and generate a current sense signal; a voltage sensor configured to sense a magnitude of voltage at a point on the electrical path between the line input terminal and the load output terminal and generate a voltage sense signal; and a processor configured to receive and process the current sense signal and the voltage sense signal to determine operational status information of the circuit breaker and determine power usage information of a load connected to the load output terminal.
2. The circuit breaker of claim 1, further comprising a radio frequency transceiver coupled to the processor, wherein radio frequency transceiver is configured to transmit the operational status information and power usage information to a remote computing node, and to receive remote control commands transmitted from the remote computing node for processing by the processor.
3. The circuit breaker of claim 1, wherein the voltage sensor comprises: a first voltage sensor coupled to the electrical path upstream of the electromechanical switch and configured to sense a magnitude of the AC supply voltage applied to the power input terminal; and a second voltage sensor coupled to the electrical path downstream of the electromechanical switch and configured to sense a magnitude of load voltage of a load connected to the load output terminal.
4. The circuit breaker of claim 1, wherein the current sensor comprises circuitry that is configured to detect an over-current condition, generate a control signal which is indicative of the detected over-current condition, and output the control signal to the processor to notify the processor of the over-current condition.
5. The circuit breaker of claim 4, wherein the current sensor detects the over-current condition based on a programmable over-current threshold value.
6. The circuit breaker of claim 5, wherein the over-current threshold value comprises a reference threshold current that is generated by a current digital-to-analog converter, and applied to an input of a comparator of the current sensor.
7. The circuit breaker of claim 1, wherein the electromechanical switch comprises an air-gap electromagnetic switch.
8. The circuit breaker of claim 7, wherein the processor generates a switch control signal to cause the air-gap electromagnetic switch to open in response to a sensor data that indicates an impending fault event.
9. The circuit breaker of claim 1, further comprising an internal short-circuit switch which is configured to generate an internal short-circuit within the circuit breaker in response to a switch control signal output from the processor, wherein the internal short-circuit is generated to one of (i) cause the electromechanical switch to trip and (ii) blow a fuse of the circuit breaker.
10. The circuit breaker of claim 1, wherein the current sensor comprises energy metering circuitry, wherein the energy metering circuitry is configured to generate energy usage data based on sensed current flowing through the circuit breaker, and output the energy usage data to the processor for analysis.
11. The circuit breaker of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to utilize current and voltage sensor data to identify a type of load connected to the circuit breaker and control power applied to the load based on the identified type of load.
12. The circuit breaker of claim 1, further comprising a power converter circuit configured to generate a direct current (DC) supply voltage from an alternating current (AC) supply voltage applied to the power input terminal, wherein the DC supply voltage is utilized to provide DC power to the processor, the current sensor, and the voltage sensor.
13. A method, comprising: connecting a circuit breaker between a utility power source and a branch circuit comprising a load, wherein the circuit breaker comprises an electromechanical switch which is configured to be placed in one of (i) a switched-closed state to connect the utility power source to the branch circuit and (ii) a switched-open state to disconnect the utility power source from the branch circuit; sensing current flow through the circuit breaker and generating a current sense signal that is indicative of a magnitude of the sensed current flow through the circuit breaker; sensing a voltage at a point on an electrical path through the circuit breaker and generating a voltage sense signal that is indicative of a magnitude of the sensed voltage; and processing the current sense signal and the voltage sense signal to determine operational status information of the circuit breaker and determine power usage information of the load.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: transmitting, by the circuit breaker, the operational status information and power usage information to a remote computing node; and receiving, by the circuit breaker, remote control commands transmitted from the remote computing node, wherein the operational status information is transmitted on at least one of a wireless communications channel and a wired communication channel; and wherein the remote computing node comprises a master controller.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein sensing the current flow through the circuit breaker comprises detecting an over-current condition, generating a control signal which is indicative of the detected over-current condition, and outputting the control signal to a processor of the circuit breaker to notify the processor of the over-current condition.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the over-current condition is detected based on a programmable over-current threshold value.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising generating a reference threshold current using a current digital-to-analog converter, wherein the reference threshold current serves as the programmable over-current threshold value.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the electromechanical switch comprises an air-gap electromagnetic switch, and the method further comprising generating a switch control signal to cause the air-gap electromagnetic switch to open in response to at least one of the sensed voltage and sense current indicating an impending fault event.
19. A system, comprising: a circuit breaker distribution panel comprising a bus bar coupled to a utility power source; a circuit breaker disposed within the circuit breaker distribution panel, wherein the circuit breaker comprises a line input terminal coupled to the bus bar, and a load output terminal connected to a branch circuit, wherein the circuit breaker comprises: an electromechanical switch which is configured to be placed in one of (i) a switched-closed state to connect the utility power source to the branch circuit and (ii) a switched-open state to disconnect the utility power source from the branch circuit; a current sensor configured to sense a magnitude of current flowing in an electrical path between the line input terminal and the load output terminal and generate a current sense signal; a voltage sensor configured to sense a magnitude of voltage at a point on the electrical path between the line input terminal and the load output terminal and generate a voltage sense signal; and a processor configured to receive and process the current sense signal and the voltage sense signal to determine operational status information of the circuit breaker and determine power usage information of a load connected to the load output terminal.
20. The system of claim 19, further comprising: a status display system comprising a display and a master processor; wherein the master processor is configured to communicate with the processor of the circuit breaker to obtain, process, and display the operational status information and power usage information received from the processor of the circuit breaker, and wherein the master processor is configured to transmit the operational status information and power usage information to a remote computing node.
</claims>
</document>
