<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T3/40,G06T7/00,G06T7/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANABUKI, MAHORO
NITTO, YUUICHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606136
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE PROCESSING APPARATUS AND METHOD OF CONTROLLING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
In order to efficiently provide an image suitable for detecting a defect in a structure, an image processing apparatus inputs an image and a parameter for geometrically correcting the image, calculates a resolution of a corrected image obtained in a case of geometrically correcting the image using the parameter, and displays resolution information relating to the calculated resolution in association with the image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image processing apparatus, comprising: an image input unit configured to input an image; a parameter input unit configured to input a parameter for geometrically correcting the inputted image; a resolution calculation unit configured to calculate a resolution of a corrected image obtained in a case of geometrically correcting the inputted image using the inputted parameter; and a display unit configured to display resolution information relating to the calculated resolution in association with the inputted image.
2. The image processing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a dividing unit configured to divide the inputted image into a plurality of partial regions, wherein the resolution calculation unit calculates a resolution for each of the plurality of partial regions, and the display unit displays the resolution information for each of the plurality of partial regions.
3. The image processing apparatus according to claim 2, further comprising a selection unit configured to, based on a resolution calculated for each of the plurality of partial regions, select a target range, from among the plurality of partial regions, to be a target of the geometric correction and a resolution of the corrected image corresponding to the target range.
4. The image processing apparatus according to claim 3, further comprising a first acceptance unit configured to accept an output resolution from a user, wherein the selection unit selects a range that includes one or more partial regions satisfying the output resolution from the plurality of partial regions as the target range.
5. The image processing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the first acceptance unit accepts an output resolution designated by using a slider-type user interface, and the display unit displays the inputted image in a state in which the plurality of partial regions can be identified, and further clearly indicates one or more partial regions selected as the target range.
6. The image processing apparatus according to claim 4, further comprising a second acceptance unit configured to accept a change of the target range from a user, the selection unit selects, as the resolution of the corrected image, a coarsest resolution among the resolution calculated by the resolution calculation unit for the one or more partial regions included in the changed target range.
7. The image processing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the display unit identifiably displays a partial region satisfying the output resolution and a partial region not satisfying the output resolution.
8. The image processing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the display unit displays a warning when a partial region that does not satisfy the output resolution is included in the target range.
9. The image processing apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the display unit indicates, as the warning, a condition required for an image to be inputted by the image input unit in order for the target range to satisfy the output resolution.
10. The image processing apparatus according to claim 3, further comprising an image correction unit configured to geometrically correct an image of the target range based on the inputted parameter and the selected resolution to generate the corrected image.
11. The image processing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the inputted image is a captured image of a structure, the image processing apparatus further comprising a detection unit configured to detect a defect of the structure from the corrected image.
12. The image processing apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the defect of the structure includes at least a crack that has occurred on the surface of a concrete structure which is the structure.
13. The image processing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the inputted image is a captured image of a structure, the image correction unit geometrically corrects, based on the inputted parameter and the resolution calculated for each of one or more partial regions included in the target range, an image of each of the one or more partial regions and generates one or more partial corrected images, the image processing apparatus further comprises: a detection unit configured to detect a defect of the structure from each of the one or more partial corrected images; and a defect integration unit configured to integrate the detected defects respectively corresponding to the one or more partial corrected images.
14. The image processing apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the defect of the structure includes at least a crack that has occurred on the surface of a concrete structure which is the structure.
15. The image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the geometric correction is ortho-correction, and the parameter comprises a homography matrix.
16. The image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the image inputted by the image input unit is an image obtained by tilted capturing of a structure, the geometric conversion is a process of converting the image into an image that appears to be captured from a position directly opposite the structure.
17. The image processing apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the image inputted by the image input unit is an image obtained by stitching together, into one image, a plurality of images obtained by dividing one structure into a plurality of regions and capturing the respective regions.
18. A method of controlling an image processing apparatus, comprising: inputting an image; inputting a parameter for geometrically correcting the inputted image; calculating a resolution of a corrected image obtained in a case of geometrically correcting the inputted image using the inputted parameter; and displaying, on a display unit, resolution information relating to the calculated resolution in association with the inputted image.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium storing a program that causes a computer to function as an image processing apparatus, comprising: an image input unit configured to input an image; a parameter input unit configured to input a parameter for geometrically correcting the inputted image; a resolution calculation unit configured to calculate a resolution of a corrected image obtained in a case of geometrically correcting the inputted image using the inputted parameter; and a display unit configured to display resolution information relating to the calculated resolution in association with the inputted image.
</claims>
</document>
