<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F7/08,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Walmart Apollo, LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
ACHAN, KANNAN
MANOHAR, Vimitha
MANOHARAN, Shirpaa
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74043784
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR AUTOMATIC ITEM RECOMMENDATION
</title>

<abstract>
This application relates to apparatus and methods for automatically identifying recommended items. In some examples, a computing device obtains item data identifying a plurality of items. The item data may identify online shopping cart items, for example. The computing device determines a plurality of values, such as probabilities, based on at least one attribute of the plurality of items, such as price. The computing device executes a stochastic process based on the plurality of values. For example, the computing device may execute a random walk process based on generated probabilities. The computing device may then generate an ordered listing based on execution of the stochastic process. For example, based on execution of the stochastic process, the computing device may identify one of the plurality of items, and include the identified item in the ordered listing. The computing device may then identify the recommended items based on the generated ordered listing.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a computing device configured to: obtain item data identifying a plurality of items; determine a plurality of values based on at least one attribute of the plurality of items; execute a stochastic process based on the plurality of values; generate an ordered listing based on execution of the stochastic process; and identify a plurality of items based on the generated ordered listing.
2. The system of claim 1 further comprising determining subsets of the plurality of items, wherein determining the plurality of values based on at least one attribute of the plurality of items comprises generating a probability for each subset of the plurality of items based on a price for each item of each subset of the plurality of items.
3. The system of claim 2 wherein each subset of the plurality of items comprises two items, and wherein generating the probability for each subset of the plurality of items comprises generating a transition matrix identifying one probability for each subset of the plurality of items.
4. The system of claim 3 wherein each probability for each subset is generated based on pa=price(a)/Σk=0nprice(k), where n is determined to be equal to a number of items in each subset.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein executing the stochastic process based on the plurality of values comprises executing a random walk algorithm based on the plurality of values.
6. The system of claim 5 wherein generating the ordered listing based on execution of the stochastic process comprises identifying, for each of a plurality of iterations of execution of the stochastic process, one of the plurality of items, and adding the identified item to the ordered listing.
7. The system of claim 6 further comprising determining that the identified item has been not yet been added to the ordered listing a maximum number of times.
8. The system of claim 7 further comprising executing the plurality of iterations of the stochastic process until each of the plurality of items has been added to the ordered listing the maximum number of times.
9. The system of claim 1 further comprising transmitting an indication of the identified plurality of items to another computing device.
10. A method comprising: obtaining item data identifying a plurality of items; determining a plurality of values based on at least one attribute of the plurality of items; executing a stochastic process based on the plurality of values; generating an ordered listing based on execution of the stochastic process; and identifying a plurality of items based on the generated ordered listing.
11. The method of claim 10 further comprising determining subsets of the plurality of items, wherein determining the plurality of values based on at least one attribute of the plurality of items comprises generating a probability for each subset of the plurality of items based on a price for each item of each subset of the plurality of items.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein each subset of the plurality of items comprises two items, and wherein generating the probability for each subset of the plurality of items comprises generating a transition matrix identifying one probability for each subset of the plurality of items.
13. The method of claim 10 wherein executing the stochastic process based on the plurality of values comprises executing a random walk algorithm based on the plurality of values.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein generating the ordered listing based on execution of the stochastic process comprises identifying, for each of a plurality of iterations of execution of the stochastic process, one of the plurality of items, and adding the identified item to the ordered listing.
15. The method of claim 14 further comprising determining that the identified item has been not yet been added to the ordered listing a maximum number of times.
16. The method of claim 15 further comprising executing the plurality of iterations of the stochastic process until each of the plurality of items has been added to the ordered listing the maximum number of times.
17. A non-transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon, wherein the instructions, when executed by at least one processor, cause a device to perform operations comprising: obtaining item data identifying a plurality of items; determining a plurality of values based on at least one attribute of the plurality of items; executing a stochastic process based on the plurality of values; generating an ordered listing based on execution of the stochastic process; and identifying a plurality of items based on the generated ordered listing.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17 further comprising instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one processor, further cause the device to perform operations comprising determining subsets of the plurality of items, wherein determining the plurality of values based on at least one attribute of the plurality of items comprises generating a probability for each subset of the plurality of items based on a price for each item of each subset of the plurality of items.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18 further comprising instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one processor, further cause the device to perform operations comprising generating a transition matrix identifying one probability for each subset of the plurality of items.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17 further comprising instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one processor, further cause the device to perform operations comprising executing a random walk algorithm based on the plurality of values.
</claims>
</document>
