<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/292
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FRAUNHOFER
KARLSRUHE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HANEBECK, UWE
GRUNA, ROBIN
LÄNGLE, THOMAS
Maier, Georg
Noack, Beniamin
Pfaff, Florian
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65268908
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR DETERMINING AT LEAST ONE MECHANICAL PROPERTY OF AT LEAST ONE OBJECT
</title>

<claims>
1. 1-18. (canceled)
19. A method for determining at least one mechanical property of at least one object, the method comprising: subjecting the at least one object to at least one interaction which influences a movement state of the at least one object; selecting the at least one interaction such that the movement state effectuated by the interaction is a function of the at least one mechanical property; observing the at least one object using at least one camera; and determining the movement state from at least one image recorded by the at least one camera, wherein the at least one mechanical property of the at least one object is determined from the movement state thus determined.
20. The method according to claim 19, wherein at least one interaction with the object is generated, which effectuates a change of a movement state of the at least one object.
21. The method according to claim 19, wherein at least one location, at least one of at least one trajectory, at least one velocity, at least one rotation or at least one acceleration of the at least one object is determined as a movement state of the at least one object.
22. The method according to claim 19, wherein the at least one object is recorded multiple times at different times by the at least one camera.
23. The method according to claim 19, wherein the at least one object is recorded using at least two cameras from different directions.
24. The method according to claim 19, wherein the at least one object is recorded using a first camera at a first point in time and using a second camera at a second point in time, which is different from the first.
25. The method according to claim 19, wherein for the at least one object the movement state is respectively determined as a set containing one or more selected from: a number of values ascertained from the at least one image, an average velocity of the respective object, averaged over a maximum period of time which the object is visible in the recorded images; a minimum velocity in the period of time which the respective object is visible in the at least one recorded image; at least one of a maximum velocity in the period of time which the respective object is visible in the at least one recorded image, or an average velocity over a part of the period of time in which the at least one object is visible in the at least one recorded image; an average acceleration of the at least one object, averaged over a maximum period of time which the at least one object is visible in the at least one recorded image; a minimum acceleration in the period of time which the at least one object is visible in the at least one recorded image; and at least one of a maximum acceleration in the period of time which the at least one object is visible in the at least one recorded image or an average acceleration over a part of the period of time in which the at least one object is visible in the at least one recorded image.
26. The method according to claim 19, wherein the interaction comprises at least one of an application of vibration of at least one impact, an interaction with a contact surface, or an interaction with an airflow.
27. The method according to claim 19, wherein the at least one object, for the subjection to the at least one interaction, is at least one of vibrated using a vibrating table, translated on a slide or a stepped slide or a sandblasted, brushed or coated slide, or is moved using a conveyor belt.
28. The method according to claim 19, wherein the at least one mechanical property comprises at least one of an inertia, a mass, a density, a friction with a surrounding medium, a rolling capacity, an adhesion, a stiffness, a modulus of elasticity, a coefficient of reconstitution, or a flow resistance of the object.
29. The method according to claim 19, wherein the at least one image is subjected to at least one of: image processing, image correction, segmentation, localization, or feature computation, to determine the movement.
30. The method according to claim 19, wherein at least one mechanical property is determined jointly of a plurality of objects.
31. The method according to claim 19, wherein at least a portion of the at least one object is identified and tracked in different ones of the at least one image, wherein the tracking is preferably performed using at least one of: multi object tracking or extended object tracking.
32. The method according to claim 31, wherein the movement of the objects is described by a list of at least one center-of-gravity measurement.
33. The method according to claim 19, wherein the movement is ascertained from the at least one image recorded by the at least one camera using a neural network, wherein firstly the neural network is trained using a set of objects having known properties, and subsequently the at least one property of the at least one object detected in the at least one image is determined using the neural network.
34. The method according to claim 30, wherein the at least one object is classified with the aid of the at least one mechanical property.
35. The method according to claim 19, wherein at least one geometrical property of the at least one object is determined.
36. The method according to claim 19, wherein the method is a method for at least one of measurement or classification in at least one of: an industrial test, an inspection for bulk goods sorting, or for piece goods testing.
37. A device for determining at least one mechanical property of at least one object, comprising: at least one interaction device for subjecting the at least one object to an interaction which influences a movement state of the object; at least one camera, using which the at least one object is observable; and at least one analysis unit, using which the at least one mechanical property of the at least one object is determinable from at least one image recorded by the camera.
</claims>
</document>
