<document>

<filing_date>
2017-07-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01V99/00,G06K9/62,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LANDMARK GRAPHICS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
PANDEY, YOGENDRA NARAYAN
YARNS, JEFFREY MARC
ETIENNE, JAMES
RANGARAJAN, KESHAVA PRASAD
CHAUDHARY, NARESH
SRINIVASAN, NAGARAJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65016231
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Deep Learning Based Reservoir Modeling
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the subject technology for deep learning based reservoir modelling provides for receiving input data comprising information associated with one or more well logs in a region of interest. The subject technology determines, based at least in part on the input data, an input feature associated with a first deep neural network (DNN) for predicting a value of a property at a location within the region of interest. Further, the subject technology trains, using the input data and based at least in part on the input feature, the first DNN. The subject technology predicts, using the first DNN, the value of the property at the location in the region of interest. The subject technology utilizes a second DNN that classifies facies based on the predicted property in the region of interest.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving input data comprising information associated with one or more well logs in a region of interest; determining, based at least in part on the input data, an input feature associated with a first deep neural network (DNN) for predicting a value of a property at a location within the region of interest; training, using the input data and based at least in part on the input feature, the first DNN; and predicting, using the first DNN, the value of the property at the location in the region of interest.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: training a second DNN for classifying a type of facies at the location in the region of interest based at least in part on the predicted value of the property at the location in the region of interest.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: predicting, using the first DNN, values of the property for a plurality of points of a point cloud, each of the plurality of points corresponding to a different location in the region of interest; and classifying, using the second DNN, types of facies for the plurality of points of the point cloud based at least in part on the predicted values of the property for the plurality of points of the point cloud.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: generating, using the values of the property and the types of facies for the plurality of points of the point cloud, a second point cloud representing the region of interest.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining, based at least in part on the input data, the input feature further comprises: determining a vertical variogram and a horizontal variogram of a property in each stratigraphic interval of the region of interest based at least in part on the input data; and determining, based at least in part on the vertical and horizontal variograms, the input feature for providing to the first DNN.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: dividing, using the vertical variogram, the region of interest into a plurality of layers, wherein the input feature is based on a plurality of neighboring points selected from at least one layer from the plurality of layers.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a point cloud in the region of interest, the point cloud including a plurality of points corresponding to different locations in the region of interest.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the region of interest corresponds to a geologic volume, and the first DNN comprises a deep feedforward network.
9. The method of claim 3, further comprising: mapping a set of coordinates corresponding to each point of the plurality of points in the region of interest, the set of coordinates being in a first coordinate system, to a second set of coordinates in a second coordinate system, wherein the first coordinate system comprises a Cartesian coordinate system and the second coordinate system comprises a UVW coordinate system.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, using the received input data, a training dataset, a validation dataset, and a test dataset, wherein the training dataset, the validation dataset, and the test dataset are mutually exclusive subsets of the received input data.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the property comprises at least one of a petrophysical property, a geochemical property, or a geomechanical property.
12. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory including instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: receive input data comprising information associated with one or more well logs in a region of interest; determine, based at least in part on the input data, an input feature associated with a first deep neural network (DNN) for predicting a value of a petrophysical property at a location within the region of interest; predict, using the first DNN, values of the petrophysical property for a plurality of points of a point cloud, each of the plurality of points corresponding to a different location in the region of interest; and classify, using a second DNN, types of facies for the plurality of points of the point cloud based at least in part on the predicted values of the petrophysical properties for the plurality of points of the point cloud.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: generate, using the values of the petrophysical property and the types of facies for the plurality of points of the point cloud, a second point cloud representing the region of interest.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein to determine, based at least in part on the input data, the input feature further comprises: determining a vertical variogram and a horizontal variogram of a petrophysical property in the region of interest based at least in part on the input data; and determining, based at least in part on the vertical and horizontal variograms, the input feature for providing to the first DNN.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: divide, using the vertical variogram, the region of interest into a plurality of layers, wherein the input feature is based on a plurality of neighboring points selected from at least one layer from the plurality of layers.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: generate a point cloud in the region of interest, the point cloud including a plurality of points corresponding to different locations in the region of interest.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: mapping a set of coordinates corresponding to each point of the plurality of points in the region of interest, the set of coordinates being in a first coordinate system, to a second set of coordinates in a second coordinate system, wherein the first coordinate system comprises a Cartesian coordinate system and the second coordinate system comprises a UVW coordinate system.
18. The system of claim 12, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: generate, using the received input data, a training dataset, a validation dataset, and a test dataset, wherein the training dataset, the validation dataset, and the test dataset are mutually exclusive subsets of the received input data.
19. The system of claim 12, wherein the petrophysical property comprises porosity, lithology, water saturation, permeability, density, oil/water ratio, geochemical information, paleo data, or water saturation.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium including instructions stored therein that, when executed by at least one computing device, cause the at least one computing device to: send input data to a server, the input data including information associated with one or more well logs in a region of interest, the region of interest corresponding to a geologic volume, wherein values of a petrophysical property for a plurality of points of a point cloud, each of the plurality of points corresponding to a different location in the region of interest, are determined using a first deep neural network (DNN), wherein, based at least in part on the values of the petrophysical property for the plurality of points of the point cloud, types of facies for the plurality of points of the point cloud are determined using a second DNN; receive, from the server, a second point cloud corresponding to the region of interest, the second point cloud including information for at least the petrophysical properties and facies classification of each point included in the second point cloud; and provide for display a 3D reservoir model based on the information from the second point cloud.
</claims>
</document>
