<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,H04N21/472,H04N5/262
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARTHWAL, NITIN
JAIN, RAVINDRA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68051631
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR AUTOMATICALLY ADDING EFFECT WHILE RECORDING
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device and a method for adding an effect while recording are provided. The method includes previewing a scene in a field of view (FOV) of a camera of an electronic device; detecting available objects in the previewed scene; identifying that at least two objects from among the available objects meet an object criteria; and applying one or more effects on the at least two objects based on the object criteria.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for adding an effect while recording in an electronic device, the method comprising: previewing a scene in a field of view (FOV) of a camera of the electronic device; detecting available objects in the previewed scene; identifying that at least two objects from among the available objects meet an object criteria; and applying one or more effects on the at least two objects based on the object criteria.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: producing a multimedia file by packaging the one or more effects with the at least two objects in the scene; storing the multimedia file; and performing an action related to the multimedia file.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the action includes at least one of: sharing at least one portion of the multimedia file, changing a setting in the electronic device, and displaying a notification about the at least one portion of the multimedia file.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising creating the object criteria by: detecting a user input on a candidate object in the previewed scene; identifying coordinate information of the candidate object in the previewed scene; identifying and displaying a plurality of objects related to the candidate object; detecting at least one object selected from the plurality of objects related to the candidate object; forming a group by grouping the at least one object and the candidate object; detecting at least one effect selected from a plurality of effects; generating the object criteria based on the group and the at least one effect; and storing the object criteria in the electronic device.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the object criteria comprises information about a group of objects and an effect to be applied, and wherein information about the group of objects indicates at least one of: availability of the object in the group, coordinate information of the object in the group, and a non-availability of the object in the group.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying that the at least two objects meet the object criteria comprises at least one of: identifying whether an object from the at least two objects matches with at least one object of a group defined in the object criteria, and identifying that the at least two objects meet the object criteria based on the match, identifying first coordinate information of a first object from the at least two objects and second coordinate information of a second object from the at least two objects, identifying a match between the first coordinate information and the second coordinate information, and identifying that the first object and the second object meet the object criteria based on the match, and identifying whether at least one object of the group defined in the object criteria is not available in the previewed scene based on the at least two objects, and identifying that the at least two objects meet the object criteria.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more effects comprises at least one of a visual effect, an audio effect, an audio-visual effect, and a haptic effect.
8. An electronic device for adding an effect while recording, the electronic device comprising: a display; a camera; and a processor configured to: preview a scene in a field of view (FOV) of the camera, detect available objects in the previewed scene, identify that the at least two objects from among the available objects meet an object criteria, and apply one or more effects on the at least two objects based on the object criteria.
9. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to: produce a multimedia file by packaging the one or more effects with the at least two objects, store the multimedia file, and perform an action related to the multimedia file.
10. The electronic device of claim 9, wherein the action includes at least one of: sharing at least one portion of the multimedia file, changing a setting in the electronic device, and displaying a notification about the at least one portion of the multimedia file.
11. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to create the object criteria by: detecting a user input on a candidate object in the previewed scene, identifying coordinate information of the candidate object in the previewed scene, identifying and displaying a plurality of objects related to the candidate object, detecting at least one object selected from the plurality of objects related to the candidate object, forming a group by grouping the at least one object and the candidate object, detecting at least one effect selected from a plurality of effects, generating the object criteria based on the group and the at least one effect, and storing the object criteria in the electronic device.
12. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the object criteria comprises information about a group of objects and an effect to be applied, and wherein information about the group of objects indicates at least one of: availability of the object in the group, coordinate information of the object in the group, and a non-availability of the object in the group.
13. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to identify that the at least two objects meet the object criteria by: identifying whether an object from the at least two objects matches with at least one object of a group defined in the object criteria, and identifying that the at least two objects meet the object criteria based on the match, identifying first coordinate information of a first object from the at least two objects and second coordinate information of a second object from the at least two objects, identifying a match between the first coordinate information and the second coordinate information, and identifying that the first object and the second object meet the object criteria based on the match, or identifying whether at least one object of the group defined in the object criteria is not available in the previewed scene based on the at least two objects, and identifying that the at least two objects meet the object criteria.
14. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the one or more effects comprises at least one of a visual effect, an audio effect, an audio-visual effect, and a haptic effect.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform at least one operation comprising: previewing a scene in a field of view (FOV) of a camera of an electronic device; detecting available objects in the previewed scene; identifying that at least two objects from among the available objects meet an object criteria; and applying one or more effects on the at least two objects based on the object criteria.
</claims>
</document>
