<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06T7/00,G06T7/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SAALBACH, AXEL
NICKISCH, HANNES
BALTRUSCHAT, IVO MATTEO
KNOPP, TOBIAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61007534
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR IMAGE DECOMPOSITION OF A PROJECTION IMAGE
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure relates to a system for image decomposition of an anatomical projection image. The system comprises a data processing system which implements a decomposition algorithm of an projection image which is generated by irradiating a part of a subject with imaging radiation. A body portion within the irradiated part is a three-dimensional attenuation structure of an attenuation of the imaging radiation, wherein the attenuation structure represents a member of a predefined class of attenuation structures of the decomposition algorithm, thereby representing a classification of the body portion. The data processing system decomposes the projection image data using the classification of the attenuation structure. The decomposition of the projection image data substantially separates the contribution of the classified body portion to the projection image from the contribution of a further body portion of the subject to the projection image. The further body portion overlaps with the classified body portion in the projection image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for image decomposition of an anatomical projection image, comprising: a data processing system configured to: read projection image data representing a projection image generated by irradiating a part of a subject with imaging radiation, wherein a body portion within the irradiated part is a three-dimensional attenuation structure of an attenuation of the imaging radiation, wherein the attenuation structure represents a member of a predefined class of attenuation structures, thereby representing a classification of the attenuation structure; decompose the projection image using the classification of the attenuation structure, wherein the decomposition of the projection image decomposes between a contribution of the classified body portion to the projection image and a contribution of a further body portion in the irradiated part to the projection image, wherein the further body portion at least partially overlaps with the classified body portion in the projection image; and use a machine learning algorithm to decompose the projection image using the classification of the body portion, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained on volumetric image data.
2. (canceled)
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the data processing system is configured for semi-automatic or automatic segmentation of a portion of the volumetric image data representing the body portion from the volumetric image data and to calculate a simulated projection image of the segmented portion of the volumetric image data.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the data processing system is further configured to calculate, using the volumetric image data, a simulated projection image of the irradiated part of the subject.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the the training is based on the calculated projection image of the segmented portion of the volumetric image data and the simulated projection image of the irradiated part of the subject.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the decomposition of the projection image includes determining, for the projection image, a contribution image which is indicative of the contribution of the classified body portion to the projection image.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the attenuation structure is an anatomically and/or functionally defined portion of the body.
8. (canceled)
9. A method for decomposing an anatomical projection image, comprising: reading projection image data representing a projection image generated by irradiating a part of a subject with imaging radiation, wherein a body portion within the irradiated part is a three-dimensional attenuation structure of an attenuation of the imaging radiation, wherein the attenuation structure represents a member of a predefined class of attenuation structures, thereby representing a classification of the attenuation structure; decomposing the projection image using the classification of the attenuation structure, wherein the decomposition of the projection image decomposes between a contribution of the classified body portion to the projection image and a contribution of a further body portion in the irradiated part to the projection image, wherein the further body portion at least partially overlaps with the classified body portion in the projection image; using a machine learning algorithm to decompose the projection image using the classification of the body portion; and training the machine learning algorithm using volumetric image data.
10. (canceled)
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising segmenting the body portion to be classified from the volumetric image data and calculating a projection image of the segmented body portion.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising calculating a simulated projection image of the irradiated part of the subject.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained based on the calculated projection image of the segmented body portion and the simulated projection image of the irradiated part of the subject.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having executable instructions stored thereon which, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform a method for decomposing an anatomical projection image, the method comprising: reading projection image data representing a projection image generated by irradiating a part of a subject with imaging radiation, wherein a body portion within the irradiated part is a three-dimensional attenuation structure of an attenuation of the imaging radiation, wherein the attenuation structure represents a member of a predefined class of attenuation structures, thereby representing a classification of the attenuation structure; decomposing the projection image using the classification of the attenuation structure, wherein the decomposition of the projection image decomposes between a contribution of the classified body portion to the projection image and a contribution of a further body portion in the irradiated part to the projection image, wherein the further body portion at least partially overlaps with the classified body portion in the projection image; using a machine learning algorithm to decompose the projection image using the classification of the body portion; and training the machine learning algorithm using volumetric image data.
15. (canceled)
16. The system according to claim 1, wherein the attenuation structure is defined by attenuation contrast of the imaging radiation.
17. The system according to claim 1, wherein within the body portion, the local absorbance is detectably different compared to adjacent body portions.
18. The system according to claim 1, wherein the attenuation structure represents at least one of the heart, the rib cage, and one or more lobes of the lung.
19. The system according to claim 6, wherein the simulated projection image is calculated using a ray-casting algorithm.
20. The system according to claim 3, wherein the machine learning algorithm comprises an artificial neural network.
</claims>
</document>
