<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R33/00,G01R33/10,G08B13/08,G08B13/24,G08B29/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NORTEK SECURITY & CONTROL
</assignee>

<inventors>
KATHAN, SIVAKUMAR
NICHOLS, SR., FRANK RAYMOND
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69945348
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Vector magnetic tamper detection for sensors
</title>

<abstract>
A magnetometer sensor that detects tampering is described. The sensor samples magnetometer data and computes a set of vectors based on the magnetometer data. The sensor detects a tampering of the magnetic sensor based on determining that the set of vectors is outside the reference plane for the magnetometer sensor. The sensor generates a notification to a security system coupled to the magnetometer sensor. The notification indicating the tampering of the magnetometer sensor.
</abstract>

<claims>
Whats claimed is:
1. A method for detecting tampering of a magnetometer sensor, the method comprising: sampling magnetometer data of the magnetometer sensor; computing a set of vectors based on the magnetometer data; determining that the set of vectors is outside a reference plane for the magnetometer sensor; determining a tampering of the magnetic sensor based on determining that the set of vectors is outside the reference plane for the magnetometer sensor; and generating a notification to a security system coupled to the magnetometer sensor, the notification indicating the tampering of the magnetometer sensor.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a first mode of operation of the security system, wherein sampling the magnetometer data includes sampling first magnetometer data during the first mode of operation and sampling second magnetometer data during a second mode of operation of the security system; and forming the reference plane based on the sampling of the first magnetometer data from the first mode of operation of the security system, wherein computing the set of vectors is based on the second magnetometer data.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first mode of operation includes a calibration mode of the magnetometer sensor, and the second mode of operation includes a non-calibration mode of the magnetometer sensor.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: using machine learning to distinguish the first mode of operation from the second mode operation.
5. The method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving a user input at the magnetometer sensor, the user input indicating a calibration mode; and determining the first mode of operation based on the user input.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the tampering further comprises: forming a plurality of reference sub-planes based on the sampling of the first magnetometer data from the first mode of operation of the security system; and determining that the set of vectors identify one or more directions outside the plurality of reference sub-planes.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sampling first magnetometer data of the magnetometer sensor during a first mode of operation of the security system; computing a first set of vectors based on the first magnetometer data; computing a first vector deviation based on the first set of vectors; sampling second magnetometer data of the magnetometer sensor during a second mode of operation of the security system; computing a second set of vectors based on the second magnetometer data; computing a second vector deviation based on the second set of vectors; and determining the tampering of the magnetic sensor based on a comparison of the second set of vectors and the second vector deviation with the first set of vectors and the first vector deviation.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: computing a first usage vector pattern based on the first set of vectors, the first usage vector pattern indicating a first mean angle and a first mean intensity; computing a second usage vector pattern based on the second set of vectors, the second usage vector pattern indicating a second mean angle and a second mean intensity; and determining the tampering of the magnetic sensor based on detecting that the second usage vector pattern adjusted with the second vector deviation is outside the first usage vector pattern adjusted with the first vector deviation.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: computing a first mean angle relative to an axis of the magnetometer sensor based on the first set of vectors; computing a second mean angle relative to the axis of the magnetometer sensor based on the second set of vectors; defining an angular range formed by the first mean angle and the first vector deviation; detecting that the second mean angle is outside the angular range; and determining the tampering of the magnetic sensor in response to detecting that the second mean angle is outside the angular range.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sampling second magnetometer data of the magnetometer sensor; computing a second set of vectors based on the second magnetometer data; determining that the second set of vectors is within the reference plane for the magnetometer sensor; storing the second magnetometer data in a storage device; and updating the reference plane based on the on the second set of vectors.
11. A computing apparatus, the computing apparatus comprising: a processor; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, configure the apparatus to: sample magnetometer data of the magnetometer sensor; compute a set of vectors based on the magnetometer data; determine that the set of vectors is outside a reference plane for the magnetometer sensor; determine a tampering of the magnetic sensor based on determining that the set of vectors is outside the reference plane for the magnetometer sensor; and generate a notification to a security system coupled to the magnetometer sensor, the notification indicating the tampering of the magnetometer sensor.
12. The computing apparatus of claim 11, wherein the instructions further configure the apparatus to: determine a first mode of operation of the security system, wherein sampling the magnetometer data includes sampling first magnetometer data during the first mode of operation and sampling second magnetometer data during a second mode of operation of the security system; and form the reference plane based on the sampling of the first magnetometer data from the first mode of operation of the security system, wherein computing the set of vectors is based on the second magnetometer data.
13. The computing apparatus of claim 12, wherein the first mode of operation includes a calibration mode of the magnetometer sensor, and the second mode of operation includes a non-calibration mode of the magnetometer sensor.
14. The computing apparatus of claim 12, wherein the instructions further configure the apparatus to: use machine learning to distinguish the first mode of operation from the second mode operation.
15. The computing apparatus of claim 12, wherein the instructions further configure the apparatus to: receive a user input at the magnetometer sensor, the user input indicating a calibration mode; and determine the first mode of operation based on the user input.
16. The computing apparatus of claim 12, wherein determining the tampering further comprises: form a plurality of reference sub-planes based on the sampling of the first magnetometer data from the first mode of operation of the security system; and determine that the set of vectors identify one or more directions outside the plurality of reference sub-planes.
17. The computing apparatus of claim 11, sample first magnetometer data of the magnetometer sensor during a first mode of operation of the security system; compute a first set of vectors based on the first magnetometer data; compute a first vector deviation based on the first set of vectors; sample second magnetometer data of the magnetometer sensor during a second mode of operation of the security system; compute a second set of vectors based on the second magnetometer data; compute a second vector deviation based on the second set of vectors; and determine the tampering of the magnetic sensor based on a comparison of the second set of vectors and the second vector deviation with the first set of vectors and the first vector deviation.
18. The computing apparatus of claim 17, wherein the instructions further configure the apparatus to: compute a first usage vector pattern based on the first set of vectors, the first usage vector pattern indicating a first mean angle and a first mean intensity; compute a second usage vector pattern based on the second set of vectors, the second usage vector pattern indicating a second mean angle and a second mean intensity; and determine the tampering of the magnetic sensor based on detecting that the second usage vector pattern adjusted with the second vector deviation is outside the first usage vector pattern adjusted with the first vector deviation.
19. The computing apparatus of claim 17, wherein the instructions further configure the apparatus to: compute a first mean angle relative to an axis of the magnetometer sensor based on the first set of vectors; compute a second mean angle relative to the axis of the magnetometer sensor based on the second set of vectors; define an angular range formed by the first mean angle and the first vector deviation; detect that the second mean angle is outside the angular range; and determine the tampering of the magnetic sensor in response to detecting that the second mean angle is outside the angular range.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, the computer-readable storage medium including instructions that when executed by a computer, cause the computer to: sample magnetometer data of the magnetometer sensor; compute a set of vectors based on the magnetometer data; determine that the set of vectors is outside a reference plane for the magnetometer sensor; determine a tampering of the magnetic sensor based on determining that the set of vectors is outside the reference plane for the magnetometer sensor; and generate a notification to a security system coupled to the magnetometer sensor, the notification indicating the tampering of the magnetometer sensor.
</claims>
</document>
