<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/022,G06N3/08,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OMRON CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
TSUCHIYA, Naoki
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62104331
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICE FOR PREDICTING BODY WEIGHT OF A PERSON AND DEVICE AND METHOD FOR HEALTH MANAGEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides a device for predicting body weight of a person and device and method for health management. The device for predicting body weight of a person according to the present disclosure includes an acquisition unit for obtaining blood pressure of each person in multiple persons; an input unit for inputting body weights of the persons; a storage unit for associatively storing the blood pressure and the corresponding body weights; a combination unit for obtaining average blood pressure and obtaining an average body weight, wherein the average blood pressure and the average body weight are associatively stored in the storage unit as learning data; and a prediction unit for performing machine learning on the basis of the learning data and predict body weight. The organism data is processed to an extent that makes the detected persons unidentifiable.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device for predicting body weight of a person comprising: an acquisition unit, configured to obtain blood pressure of each person in multiple persons; an input unit, configured to input body weights of the persons when the blood pressure is obtained; a storage unit, configured to associatively store the blood pressure and the corresponding body weights; a combination unit, configured to obtain average blood pressure of the blood pressure of at least two persons and obtain an average body weight of the body weights of the at least two persons, wherein the average blood pressure and the average body weight are associatively stored in the storage unit as learning data, and a prediction unit, configured to perform machine learning on the basis of the learning data and predict body weight according to blood pressure on the basis of a learning result.
2. A device for health management comprising: an acquisition unit, configured to obtain organism information of each person in multiple persons; an input unit, configured to obtain event information corresponding to each piece of organism information, the event information representing a physical entity parameter obtained by means of a sensing device; a storage unit, configured to associatively store the organism information and the corresponding event information; a combination unit, configured to obtain a combination value of combination of at least two pieces of organism information and obtain combined event information of combination of the event information respectively corresponding to the at least two pieces of organism information, wherein the combination value and the combined event information are associatively stored in the storage unit as learning data, and a prediction unit, configured to perform machine learning on the basis of the learning data and predict event information according to organism information on the basis of a learning result.
3. The device for health management of claim 2, wherein the event information is information in a numerical form, the device for health management further comprising: a label generation unit, configured to calculate an average value of the event information corresponding to the at least two pieces of organism information as the combined event information; and assign the combined event information to the combination value as a label.
4. The device for health management of claim 2, wherein the event information is information representing an action, the device for health management further comprising: a label generation unit, configured to determine the event information of which an occurrence frequency is higher than the other event information in the event information corresponding to the at least two pieces of organism information as the combined event information; and assign the combined event information to the combination value as a label.
5. The device for health management of claim 2, wherein the combination value is an average value of the at least two pieces of organism information.
6. The device for health management of claim 5, further comprising: an encrypted information generation unit, configured to add a random number to each of the at least two pieces of organism information to obtain multiple pieces of encrypted organism information, wherein an average value of at least two pieces of encrypted organism information is equal to the average value of the at least two pieces of organism information, and moreover, the encrypted information generation unit sends the multiple pieces of encrypted organism information to the storage unit to replace the organism information associated with the event information in the stored learning data with the corresponding encrypted organism information.
7. The device for health management of claim 2, wherein at least two persons corresponding to the at least two pieces of organism information for combination are persons with the same event information.
8. The device for health management of claim 2, wherein, for the at least two persons corresponding to the at least two pieces of organism information for combination, closeness between values of the at least two pieces of organism information is higher than a predetermined threshold value.
9. A method for health management comprising: obtaining organism information of each person in multiple persons; obtaining event information corresponding to each piece of organism information, the event information representing a physical entity parameter obtained by means of a sensing device; associatively storing the organism information and the corresponding event information; and obtaining a combination value of combination of at least two pieces of organism information, and obtaining combined event information of combination of the event information respectively corresponding to the at least two pieces of organism information, wherein the combination value and the combined event information are associatively stored as learning data, and performing machine learning on the basis of the learning data and predict event information according to organism information on the basis of a learning result.
10. The method for health management of claim 9, wherein the event information is information in a numerical form, the method for health management further comprising: calculating an average value of the event information corresponding to the at least two pieces of organism information as the combined event information; and assigning the combined event information to the combination value as a label.
11. The method for health management of claim 9, wherein the event information is information representing an action, the method for health management further comprising: determining the event information of which an occurrence frequency is higher than the other event information in the event information corresponding to the at least two pieces of organism information as the combined event information; and assigning the combined event information to the combination value as a label.
12. The method for health management of claim 9, wherein the combination value is an average value of the at least two pieces of organism information.
13. The method for health management of claim 12, further comprising: adding a random number to each of the at least two pieces of organism information to obtain multiple pieces of encrypted organism information, wherein an average value of at least two pieces of encrypted organism information is equal to the average value of the at least two pieces of organism information, and moreover, replacing the organism information associated with the event information in the stored learning data with the corresponding encrypted organism information.
14. The method for health management of claim 9, wherein at least two persons corresponding to the at least two pieces of organism information for combination are persons with the same event information.
15. The method for health management of claim 9, wherein, for the at least two persons corresponding to the at least two pieces of organism information for combination, closeness between values of the at least two pieces of organism information is higher than a predetermined threshold value.
16. The device for health management of claim 3, wherein the combination value is an average value of the at least two pieces of organism information.
17. The device for health management of claim 4, wherein the combination value is an average value of the at least two pieces of organism information.
18. The device for health management of claim 3, wherein at least two persons corresponding to the at least two pieces of organism information for combination are persons with the same event information.
19. The device for health management of claim 4, wherein at least two persons corresponding to the at least two pieces of organism information for combination are persons with the same event information.
20. The device for health management of claim 3, wherein, for the at least two persons corresponding to the at least two pieces of organism information for combination, closeness between values of the at least two pieces of organism information is higher than a predetermined threshold value.
</claims>
</document>
