<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/31,G06F16/33,G06F16/332,G06F16/36,G06N3/02,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALESFORCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRETTE, MARC
Kempf, Guillaume Jean Mathieu
Dellatorre Borges, Francisco
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017714
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTING AND PROCESSING CONCEPTUAL QUERIES
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and devices supporting detecting and processing conceptual queries are described. A device (e.g., an application server) may receive a search query from a user device. The search query may include one or more parameters. The device may tag the search query using one or more tags associated with the one or more parameters. In some examples, the one or more tags may be determined based on a neural network. The device may determine that the search query is supported as a conceptual query based on a tag of the one or more tags corresponding to a data object stored in a database. The device may then generate a database query in a query language based on the search query, retrieve a set of results for the search query using the database query in the query language, and transmit the set of results to the user device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for query handling at a server, comprising: receiving, from a user device, a search query comprising one or more parameters; tagging the search query using one or more tags associated with the one or more parameters, wherein the one or more tags are determined based at least in part on a neural network; determining that the search query is supported as a conceptual query based at least in part on a tag of the one or more tags corresponding to a data object stored in a database; generating a database query in a query language based at least in part on the search query, wherein the generating is based at least in part on the one or more tags and determining that the search query is supported as the conceptual query; retrieving, from the database, a set of results for the search query using the database query in the query language; and transmitting, to the user device, the set of results for the search query.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: parsing the search query based at least in part on the one or more parameters; determining an input array based at least in part on parsing the search query; and inputting the input array into the neural network.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: obtaining an output of the neural network based at least in part on inputting the input array; and determining the one or more tags based at least in part on the output of the neural network, wherein tagging the search query using the one or more tags is based at least in part on determining the one or more tags.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein parsing the search query and determining the input array further comprises: parsing the search query to identify one or more words; and determining one or more numerical values associated with the one or more words, wherein the input array comprises the one or more numerical values.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein parsing the search query and determining the input array further comprises: parsing the search query to identify one or more characters; and determining one or more numerical values associated with the one or more characters, wherein the input array comprises the one or more numerical values.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that a first tag and a second tag are associated with a parameter included in the search query; and combining the first tag and the second tag associated with the parameter, wherein tagging the search query is based at least in part on combining the first tag and the second tag.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that at least one parameter from the one or more parameters includes at least one of a name of a person, a name of an organization, or a combination thereof; and resolving the at least one parameter to a unique identifier associated with at least one of the person, the organization, or a combination thereof.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein resolving the at least one parameter further comprises: querying a search index database based at least in part on the at least one parameter; and receiving, from the search index database, the unique identifier based at least in part on the querying.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a plurality of data object types stored in the database based at least in part on a configured list of data object types supported by the database; and determining the tag of the one or more tags corresponding to the data object stored in the database based at least in part on identifying the plurality of data object types.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: retrieving, from the database, information indicating the plurality of data object types supported by the database; and configuring the configured list of data object types based at least in part on the retrieved information indicating the plurality of data object types supported by the database.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining metadata based at least in part on the one or more tags associated with the one or more parameters; and generating at least one of the database query in the query language, the set of results for the search query, or a combination thereof based at least in part on the metadata.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from the user device, a second search query comprising one or more additional parameters; tagging the second search query using one or more additional tags associated with the one or more additional parameters, wherein the one or more additional tags are determined based at least in part on the neural network; determining that the second search query is not supported as a second conceptual query based at least in part on the one or more additional tags; performing a keyword search using the one or more additional parameters included in the second search query based at least in part on the second search query not supporting the second conceptual query; retrieving a second set of results for the second search query based at least in part on the keyword search; and transmitting, to the user device, the second set of results for the second search query.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: updating the neural network based at least in part on identifying one or more pre-tagged queries, receiving an update to the database, or both, wherein the one or more tags are determined based at least in part on updating the neural network.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein tagging the search query using the one or more tags comprises: tagging the search query using the one or more tags according to an Inside Outside Beginning (JOB) format.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying at least one of an entity, a scope, a time period, a field value, or a combination thereof based at least in part on the one or more tags, wherein generating the database query in the query language is based at least in part on the identifying.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the neural network comprises a Named Entity Recognition system.
17. The method of claim 1, further comprising: formatting the set of results for the search query for display in a user interface of the user device.
18. An apparatus for query handling at a server, comprising: a processor; memory in electronic communication with the processor; and instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: receive, from a user device, a search query comprising one or more parameters; tag the search query using one or more tags associated with the one or more parameters, wherein the one or more tags are determined based at least in part on a neural network; determine that the search query is supported as a conceptual query based at least in part on a tag of the one or more tags corresponding to a data object stored in a database; generate a database query in a query language based at least in part on the search query, wherein the generating is based at least in part on the one or more tags and determining that the search query is supported as the conceptual query; retrieve, from the database, a set of results for the search query using the database query in the query language; and transmit, to the user device, the set of results for the search query.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: parse the search query based at least in part on the one or more parameters; determine an input array based at least in part on parsing the search query; and input the input array into the neural network.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing code for query handling at a server, the code comprising instructions executable by a processor to: receive, from a user device, a search query comprising one or more parameters; tag the search query using one or more tags associated with the one or more parameters, wherein the one or more tags are determined based at least in part on a neural network; determine that the search query is supported as a conceptual query based at least in part on a tag of the one or more tags corresponding to a data object stored in a database; generate a database query in a query language based at least in part on the search query, wherein the generating is based at least in part on the one or more tags and determining that the search query is supported as the conceptual query; retrieve, from the database, a set of results for the search query using the database query in the query language; and transmit, to the user device, the set of results for the search query.
</claims>
</document>
