<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/18,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OPTUM CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRAHAM, STEPHEN G.
HAMILTON, RICK, A.
KONDADADI, RAVI
REKESH, DMITRY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70457759
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD, APPARATUS AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR IMPROVING DEEP QUESTION-ANSWERING (QA) APPLICATIONS USING FEEDBACK FROM RETRIEVAL QA APPLICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, apparatus, systems, computing devices, computing entities, and/or the like for a hybrid question-answering (QA) application are provided. The hybrid QA application includes both a retrieval QA application and a deep QA application, and uses feedback from the retrieval QA application to improve the deep QA application.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising: receiving, by one or more processors, an input question originating from a user computing entity; generating, by the one or more processors, a first answer and a first confidence score using a deep question-answering (QA) application, the first answer being in response to the input question and the deep QA application comprising an artificial neural network; determining, by the one or more processors, whether the first confidence score satisfies a first configurable threshold; in response to determining that the first confidence score does not satisfy the first configurable threshold, generating, by the one or more processors, a second answer using a retrieval QA application, the second answer being in response to the input question; determining, by the one or more processors, a second confidence score associated with the second answer; and determining, by the one or more processors, whether the second confidence score satisfies a second configurable threshold.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to determining that the second confidence score satisfies the second configurable threshold, transmitting, by the one or more processors, the second answer to the user computing entity; and training, by the one or more processors, the deep QA application based on the input question and the second answer.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein training the deep QA application further causes the deep QA application to train the artificial neural network to output the second answer in response to the input question.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: storing, by the one or more processors, the input question and the second answer as training data for the deep QA application in a storage media.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to determining that the second confidence score does not satisfy the second configurable threshold, receiving, by the one or more processors, an expert answer in response to the input question; and training, by the one or more processors, the deep QA application based on the input question and the expert answer.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the second answer using the retrieval QA application further comprises: analyzing, by the one or more processors, the input question; generating, by the one or more processors, a document retrieval query based on the input question; querying, by the one or more processors, a document collection based on the document retrieval query; identifying, by the one or more processors, one or more relevant documents from the document collection; and extracting, by the one or more processors, one or more candidate answers based on the one or more relevant documents.
7. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable medium having computer program instructions stored therein, the computer program instructions when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: receive an input question originating from a user computing entity; generate a first answer and a first confidence score using a deep question-answering (QA) application, the first answer being in response to the input question and the deep QA application comprising an artificial neural network; determine whether the first confidence score satisfies a first configurable threshold; in response to determining that the first confidence score does not satisfy the first configurable threshold, generating, by the one or more processors, a second answer using a retrieval QA application, the second answer being in response to the input question; determine a second confidence score associated with the second answer; and determine whether the second confidence score satisfies a second configurable threshold.
8. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 7, wherein the computer program instructions when executed by the processor, further cause the processor to: in response to determining that the second confidence score satisfies the second configurable threshold, transmit the second answer to the user computing entity; and train the deep QA application based on the input question and the second answer.
9. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 8, wherein training the deep QA application further causes the deep QA application to train the artificial neural network to output the second answer in response to the input question.
10. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 10, wherein the computer program instructions when executed by the processor, further cause the processor to: store the input question and the second answer as training data for the deep QA application in a storage media.
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 8, wherein the computer program instructions when executed by the processor, further cause the processor to: in response to determining that the second confidence score does not satisfy the second configurable threshold, receive an expert answer in response to the input question; and train the deep QA application based on the input question and the expert answer.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 7, wherein generating the second answer using the retrieval QA application further cause the processor to: analyze the input question; generate a document retrieval query based on the input question; query a document collection based on the document retrieval query; identify one or more relevant documents from the document collection; and extract one or more candidate answers based on the one or more relevant documents.
13. A computing system comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium and one or more processors, the computing system configured to: receive an input question originating from a user computing entity; generate a first answer and a first confidence score using a deep question-answering (QA) application, the first answer being in response to the input question and the deep QA application comprising an artificial neural network; determine whether the first confidence score satisfies a first configurable threshold; in response to determining that the first confidence score does not satisfy the first configurable threshold, generating, by the one or more processors, a second answer using a retrieval QA application, the second answer being in response to the input question; determine a second confidence score associated with the second answer; and determine whether the second confidence score satisfies a second configurable threshold.
14. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the computing system is further configured to: in response to determining that the second confidence score satisfies the second configurable threshold, transmit the second answer to the user computing entity; and train the deep QA application based on the input question and the second answer.
15. The computing system of claim 14, wherein training the deep QA application further causes the deep QA application to train the artificial neural network to output the second answer in response to the input question.
16. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the computing system is further configured to: store the input question and the second answer as training data for the deep QA application in a storage media.
17. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the computing system is further configured to: in response to determining that the second confidence score does not satisfy the second configurable threshold, receive an expert answer in response to the input question; and train the deep QA application based on the input question and the expert answer.
</claims>
</document>
