<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W40/08,B60W40/09,G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G07C5/00,G07C5/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HU, GUO QIANG
WANG ZHIHU
ZHANG LI
ZHAO, SHIWAN
ZHU JUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70972452
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Implementing cognitive state recognition within a telematics system
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for implementing cognitive state recognition within a telematics system includes determining moving object operation behaviors of an operator of a moving object corresponding to respective select contextual combinations, generating a personalized base characteristic for each select contextual combination, recognizing a cognitive state based on a comparison of actual moving object operation behaviors associated with the select contextual combinations and corresponding ones of the personalized base characteristics, and automatically triggering one or more actions based on the cognitive state.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for implementing cognitive state recognition within a telematics system, comprising: a memory device for storing program code; and at least one processor device operatively coupled to the memory device and configured to execute program code stored on the memory device to: determine moving object operation behaviors of an operator of a moving object corresponding to respective ones of a plurality of select contextual combinations; generate a plurality of personalized base characteristics by building a plurality of tuples for each of the select contextual combinations, each of the tuples including a base measure associated with an average base rate of a driving behavior; recognize a cognitive state based on a comparison of actual moving object operation behaviors associated with the select contextual combinations and corresponding ones of the personalized base characteristics; and automatically trigger one or more actions based on the cognitive state.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor device is further configured to: identify behavior of the operator based on telematics data; perform a mapping of contexts; obtain contextual combinations based on the mapping; and identify the select contextual combinations from the contextual combinations using machine learning based on historical data.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the tuples further includes a moving object identification number, a select contextual combination identification number, a weight, and a cognitive state identification number corresponding to a cognitive state.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor device is configured to recognize the cognitive state by calculating a risk score based on offsets corresponding to the select contextual combinations, and determining that the risk score exceeds a threshold.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the risk score is calculated as a normalized sum of the offsets.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more actions include one or more cognitive state relaxing actions to ameliorate a negative cognitive state.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more actions include updating moving object operation data associated with the operator.
8. A computer-implemented method for implementing cognitive state recognition within a telematics system, comprising: determining moving object operation behaviors of an operator of a moving object corresponding to respective ones of a plurality of select contextual combinations; generating a plurality of personalized base characteristics by building a plurality of tuples for each of the select contextual combinations, each of the tuples including a base measure associated with an average base rate of a driving behavior; recognizing a cognitive state based on a comparison of actual moving object operation behaviors associated with the select contextual combinations and corresponding ones of the personalized base characteristics; and automatically triggering one or more actions based on the cognitive state.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: identifying behavior of the operator based on telematics data; performing a mapping of contexts based on the identified behavior; obtaining contextual combinations based on the mapping and the identified behavior; and identifying the select contextual combinations from the contextual combinations using machine learning based on historical data.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein each of the tuples further includes a moving object identification number, a select contextual combination identification number, a weight, and a cognitive state identification number corresponding to a cognitive state.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein recognizing the cognitive state further includes calculating a risk score based on offsets corresponding to the select contextual combinations, and determining that the risk score exceeds a threshold.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the risk score is calculated as a normalized sum of the offsets.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the one or more actions include one or more cognitive state relaxing actions to ameliorate a negative cognitive state.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the one or more actions include updating moving object operation data associated with the operator.
15. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform a method for implementing cognitive state recognition within a telematics system, the method performed by the computer comprising: determining moving object operation behaviors of an operator of a moving object corresponding to respective ones of a plurality of select contextual combinations; generating a plurality of personalized base characteristics by building a plurality of tuples for each of the select contextual combinations, each of the tuples including a base measure associated with an average base rate of a driving behavior; recognizing a cognitive state based on a comparison of actual moving object operation behaviors associated with the select contextual combinations and corresponding ones of the personalized base characteristics; and automatically triggering one or more actions based on the cognitive state.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the method further includes: identifying behavior of the operator based on telematics data; performing a mapping of contexts based on the identified behavior; obtaining contextual combinations based on the mapping and the identified behavior; and identifying the select contextual combinations from the contextual combinations using machine learning based on historical data.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein each of the tuples further includes a moving object indentification number, a select contextual combination identification number, a weight, and a cognitive state identification number corresponding to a cognitive state.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein recognizing the cognitive state further includes calculating a risk score based on offsets corresponding to the select contextual combinations, and determining that the risk score exceeds a threshold, and wherein the risk score is calculated as a normalized sum of the offsets.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the one or more actions include one or more cognitive state relaxing actions to ameliorate a negative cognitive state.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the one or more actions include updating moving object operation data associated with the operator.
</claims>
</document>
