<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,H04B1/38,H04L29/08,H04W4/44
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICRON TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOEHM, AARON P.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69884814
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEMORY POOLING BETWEEN SELECTED MEMORY RESOURCES ON VEHICLES OR BASE STATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatuses, systems, and methods related to memory pooling between selected memory resources on vehicles or base stations are described. A system using a memory pool formed as such may enable performance of functions, including automated functions critical for prevention of damage to a product, personnel safety, and/or reliable operation, based on increased access to data that may improve performance of a mission profile. For instance, one apparatus described herein includes a wireless base station coupled to a first processor coupled to a first memory resource that are configured to enable formation of a memory pool to share data between the first memory resource and a second memory resource at a vehicle responsive to a request to access the second memory resource from the first processor transmitted via the base station. The data shared by the second memory resource is determined to enable performance of a particular functionality, stored by the first memory resource, as at least part of a mission profile for transit of the vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a first memory resource; a first processor coupled to the first memory resource; and a wireless base station coupled to the first processor; wherein: the first memory resource, the first processor, and the base station are configured to enable formation of a memory pool to share data between the first memory resource and a second memory resource at a vehicle responsive to a request to access the second memory resource from the first processor transmitted via the base station; and data shared by the second memory resource is determined to enable performance of a particular functionality, stored by the first memory resource, as at least part of a mission profile for transit of the vehicle.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a first controller coupled to the first processor; wherein the first controller is configured to selectably determine the particular functionality for which data is to be shared by the second memory resource with the first memory resource to direct performance of an operation of the particular functionality that is different from an operation performed based on data values previously stored by the first memory resource.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a second controller coupled to a second processor coupled to the second memory resource; wherein the second controller is configured to selectably determine a particular memory device of the second memory resource from which data requested, via the base station, for performance of the particular functionality is to be transmitted by the second processor.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a second controller coupled to a second processor coupled to the second memory resource; wherein the second controller is configured to selectably determine, responsive to prioritization of data requested by the first memory resource, a particular memory device of the second memory resource to be accessed for the data to be transmitted to the first memory resource.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: performance of an operation by the first processor coupled to the first memory resource is enabled based on processing of data values shared by a second processor coupled to the second memory resource; and the data values shared by the second processor include at least one data value different from data values previously stored by the first memory resource.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a transceiver resource comprising a first radio frequency (RF) transceiver coupled to the first processor and a second RF transceiver coupled to a second processor to enable formation of the memory pool between the first memory resource and the second memory resource.
7. A system, comprising: a wireless base station coupled to a first processor coupled to a first memory resource; a second memory resource coupled to a second processor at at least one vehicle, wherein the first memory resource is separate from the second memory resource and each are configured to wirelessly share data between the first memory resource and the second memory resource; and a controller configured to selectably determine whether the first memory resource and the second memory resource are authorized to enable formation of a memory pool; wherein the controller is configured to determine enablement of the memory pool between the first memory resource and the second memory resource responsive to a request for formation of the memory pool from either the first processor or the second memory resource.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein: data shared by the second memory resource with the first memory resource enables direction of transit to an intended destination by a vehicle or another vehicle; and the transit is directed by the first memory resource to include performance of at least one operation by the vehicle or the other vehicle that is different from an operation performed based on data values previously stored by the second memory resource.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein: a response to a request from a second processor at a vehicle or another vehicle for access to the first memory resource is prioritized by the first processor to enable real time updating of a mission profile and real time coordination of a convoy of vehicles such that; the first processor coupled to the first memory resource transmits data to enable direction of transit of the vehicle or the other vehicle before a request from the first memory resource to access the second memory resource is transmitted.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein a particular number of a plurality of memory resources included in the memory pool is selectably scalable responsive to a number of vehicles including a corresponding number of second memory resources authorized by the controller.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein a bandwidth of the memory pool is selectably scalable by a particular number of vehicles including a corresponding number of second memory resources authorized, by the controller, for inclusion in the memory pool.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein a particular number of a plurality of memory resources included in the memory pool is dynamically determined responsive to a number of vehicles including a corresponding number of second memory resources mutually present within a particular sequence of vehicles in a particular time period.
13. The system of claim 7, wherein a particular number of a plurality of memory resources included in the memory pool is dynamically determined responsive to a number of vehicles including a corresponding number of second memory resources authorized, by the controller, as a match in a particular time period with an authorization criterion.
14. The system of claim 7, further comprising: an authorization criterion usable by the controller to selectably determine whether a vehicle including one second memory resource and another vehicle including another second memory resource are authorized for inclusion in the memory pool, wherein the authorization criterion is at least one of: a particular proximity of the one second memory resource relative to the other second memory resource, wherein the particular proximity is a proximity that enables the one second memory resource and the other second memory resource to be included in a same sequence of vehicles; and a match of a protocol for wireless communication between a first transceiver coupled to the one second memory resource and a second transceiver coupled to the other second memory resource.
15. The system of claim 7, further comprising: the second processor, which comprises the controller, selectably coupled to a plurality of switches for a corresponding plurality of channels of the second memory resource; and the controller is further configured to determine, responsive to selective activation of a particular switch, which particular channel is enabled to: transmit, via a transceiver selectably coupled to the particular channel, data stored in memory of the particular channel responsive to a request received from the first processor coupled to the first memory resource; and receive, via the transceiver selectably coupled to the particular channel, data from the first memory resource to be stored in the memory of the particular channel responsive to a request transmitted from the second processor.
16. The system of claim 7, further comprising: the first processor, which comprises the controller, selectably coupled to a transceiver configured to transmit a request for formation of the memory pool; and the request is to send data from the first memory resource to the second memory resource, the data corresponding to a particular functionality having instructions for performance thereof stored in memory of a particular channel of the first memory resource; wherein performance of the particular functionality by the second processor of the second memory resource is different following access of stored instructions, including data received from the first memory resource, relative to instructions previously stored in memory of the corresponding particular channel of the second memory resource.
17. A method, comprising: transmitting, via a fixed base station coupled to a first memory resource, a request for data stored by a second memory resource at a vehicle to contribute to processing of a mission profile stored by the first memory resource; and receiving, via the fixed base station in response to the request, the data from the second memory resource to contribute to the processing of the mission profile.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: forming a memory pool that includes the first memory resource at the fixed base station, the second memory resource at the vehicle, and one or more additional memory resources at one or more additional vehicles; wherein data from each of the additional memory resources contribute to the processing of the mission profile.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising performing the mission profile based at least in part on processing of instructions stored at the first memory resource and the data transmitted from the vehicle.
20. The method of claim 17, further comprising: directing a plurality of vehicles toward an intended destination on a route; identifying the vehicle having the second memory resource as a lead vehicle in a sequence of the plurality of vehicles; and directing performance of at least a portion of a previously stored mission profile to enable improved elapsed time or safety of the transit toward the intended destination by formation of a memory pool between the lead vehicle and at least one other vehicle in the sequence.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising operating a first processor coupled to the first memory resource and a second processor coupled to the second memory resource as a resource wirelessly accessible by parties other than the fixed bas station and the plurality of vehicles.
22. The method of claim 17, further comprising: selecting, by a processor coupled to the fixed base station, at least one of mapped, imaged, or classified, or any combination thereof, data stored by the first memory resource or the second memory resource and associated with a route identified by the vehicle or another vehicle; and forming a memory pool to transmit at least one of the mapped, imaged, or classified, or any combination thereof, data to another processor of the other vehicle.
23. A method, comprising: transmitting, by a first vehicle coupled to a first processor coupled to a first memory resource, a request for data stored by a second memory resource at a second vehicle concerning a mission profile; and receiving, via the first vehicle in response to the request, the data from the second memory resource concerning the mission profile.
24. The method of claim 23, further comprising: transmitting the request for the data stored by the second memory resource to contribute to processing of the mission profile stored by the first memory resource; and receiving the data from the second memory resource to contribute to the processing of the mission profile.
25. The method of claim 23, further comprising forming a memory pool comprising the first memory resource at the first vehicle and the second memory resource at the second vehicle.
26. The method of claim 23, further comprising: identifying the first vehicle having the first memory resource as a lead vehicle and the second vehicle having the second memory resource as another vehicle in a sequence of vehicles; transmitting the request to a second processor coupled to the second memory resource via a base station at a fixed access point; forming a memory pool comprising the first memory resource at the first vehicle, the second memory resource at the second vehicle, and the base station; receiving, via the lead vehicle, data from the base station concerning the mission profile; processing instructions stored by the first memory resource at the lead vehicle and the data received from the base station concerning the mission profile; and wirelessly transmitting the mission profile processed by the lead vehicle to the other vehicle coupled to the second processor.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising: processing the mission profile, including the instructions stored at the first memory resource and the data received from the base station, at least in part by a first processor coupled to the first memory resource at the lead vehicle; and performing the processed mission profile by the other vehicle.
28. The method of claim 23, further comprising: transmitting the request to a second processor coupled to the second memory resource via a base station at a fixed access point; forming a memory pool comprising the first memory resource at the first vehicle, the second memory resource at the second vehicle, and the base station; and receiving, via the first vehicle in response to the request, the data from the second memory resource and data from a third memory resource at the base station to contribute to the processing of the mission profile.
</claims>
</document>
