<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B47/14,G01V1/28,G01V1/30,G01V1/50,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BP EXPLORATION OPERATING COMPANY
LYTT
</assignee>

<inventors>
THIRUVENKATANATHAN, PRADYUMNA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64661306
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Event Detection Using DAS Features with Machine Learning
</title>

<abstract>
A method of identifying events includes obtaining an acoustic signal from a sensor, determining one or more frequency domain features from the acoustic signal, providing the one or more frequency domain features as inputs to a plurality of event detection models, and determining the presence of one or more events using the plurality of event detection models. The one or more frequency domain features are obtained across a frequency range of the acoustic signal, and at least two of the plurality of event detection models are different.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method of identifying events, the method comprising: obtaining an acoustic signal from a sensor; determining one or more frequency domain features from the acoustic signal, wherein the one or more frequency domain features are obtained across a frequency range of the acoustic signal; providing the one or more frequency domain features as inputs to a plurality of event detection models; and determining the presence of one or more events using the plurality of event detection models, wherein at least two of the plurality of event detection models are different.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor is disposed within a wellbore, wherein the acoustic signal comprises acoustic samples across a portion of a depth of the wellbore.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying one or more event locations using the one or more frequency domain features.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more frequency domain features are selected from a spectral centroid, a spectral spread, a spectral roll-off, a spectral skewness, a root mean square (RMS) band energy, a total RMS energy, a spectral flatness, a spectral slope, a spectral kurtosis, a spectral flux, a spectral autocorrelation function, or a normalized variant thereof.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more events comprise one or more wellbore events, and wherein the one or more wellbore events comprise one or more of: fluid inflow, fluid outflow, fluid phase segregation, fluid flow discrimination within a conduit, well integrity monitoring, in well leak detection, annular fluid flow, overburden monitoring, fluid flow detection behind a casing, fluid induced hydraulic fracture detection in an overburden, sand ingress, or sand flow along a wellbore.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more events comprise one or more transportation events, security events, facility monitoring events, or pipeline monitoring events.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: denoising the acoustic signal prior to determining the one or more frequency domain features,
8. The method of claim 7, wherein denoising the acoustic signal comprises median filtering the acoustic samples.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: calibrating the acoustic signal.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: normalizing the one or more frequency domain features prior to determining the presence of the one or more events.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the one or more events comprises: identifying one or more anomalies in the acoustic signal using the one or more frequency domain features; and selecting depth intervals of the one or more anomalies as event locations.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of event detection models comprises a plurality of logistic regression models, and wherein determining the presence of one or more events using the plurality of event detection models comprises: determining the presence of the one or more events based on the plurality of logistic regression models.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a remediation procedure based on the presence of the one or more events; and performing the remediation procedure.
14. A system comprising: a processor; and a memory storing an analysis program, wherein the processor is configured to execute the analysis program to: receive an acoustic signal from a sensor; determine one or more frequency domain features from the acoustic signal, wherein the one or more frequency domain features are obtained across a plurality of intervals along the sensor; provide the one or more frequency domain features as inputs to a plurality of event detection models; and determine the presence of one or more events using the plurality of event detection models, wherein at least two of the plurality of event detection models are different.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: identify one or more event locations using the one or more frequency domain features.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the one or more frequency domain features comprise at least two frequency domain features, and wherein the at least two frequency domain features are selected from a spectral centroid, a spectral spread, a spectral roll-off, a spectral skewness, a root mean square (RMS) band energy, a total RMS energy, a spectral flatness, a spectral slope, a spectral kurtosis, a spectral flux, a spectral autocorrelation function, or a normalized variant thereof.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the one or more events comprise one or more of: fluid inflow, fluid outflow, fluid phase segregation, fluid flow discrimination within a conduit, well integrity monitoring, in well leak detection, annular fluid flow, overburden monitoring, fluid flow detection behind a casing, fluid induced hydraulic fracture detection in an overburden, sand ingress, or sand flow along a wellbore.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the one or more events comprise one or more transportation events, security events, facility monitoring events, or pipeline monitoring events.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: calibrate the acoustic signal.
20. The system of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: normalize the one or more frequency domain features prior to determining the presence of the one or more events.
21. The system of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: identify a background event signature using the acoustic signal; and remove the background event signature from the acoustic signal prior to identifying the one or more events.
22. The system of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: identify one or more anomalies in the acoustic signal using the one or more frequency domain features; and select depth intervals of the one or more anomalies as event locations.
23. The system of claim 14, wherein the plurality of event detection models comprises a plurality of logistic regression models, and wherein the processor is further configured to: determine the presence of the one or more events based on the plurality of logistic regression models.
24. The system of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine a remediation procedure based on the presence of the one or more events; and perform the remediation procedure.
25. The system of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine a confidence level for the determination of the presence of the one or more events; and perform a remediation procedure based on the confidence level.
26. A method of determining an output signal using an acoustic signal, the method comprising: determining one or more frequency domain features from an acoustic signal, wherein the one or more frequency domain features are obtained across a plurality of lengths along a path of the sensor; providing the one or more frequency domain features as inputs to a plurality of event detection models; determining an indication of a presence of one or more events using the plurality of event detection models; providing the indication of the presence of the one or more events to a supervisory application; and determining, using the indication of the presence of the one or more events as inputs into the supervisory application, an output signal for a process or system.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising: identifying one or more event locations using the one or more frequency domain features; and providing the one or more event locations to the supervisory application, wherein determining the output signal comprises using the one or more event locations,
28. The method of claim 26, wherein the one or more frequency domain features are selected from a spectral centroid, a spectral spread, a spectral roll-off, a spectral skewness, a root mean square (RMS) band energy, a total RMS energy, a spectral flatness, a spectral slope, a spectral kurtosis, a spectral flux, a spectral autocorrelation function, or a normalized variant thereof.
29. The method of claim 26, wherein the one or more events comprise one or more wellbore events, and wherein the one or more wellbore events comprise one or more of: fluid inflow, fluid outflow, fluid phase segregation, fluid flow discrimination within a conduit, well integrity monitoring, in well leak detection, annular fluid flow, overburden monitoring, fluid flow detection behind a casing, fluid induced hydraulic fracture detection in an overburden, sand ingress, or sand flow along a wellbore.
30. The method of claim 26, wherein the one or more events comprise one or more transportation events, security events, facility monitoring events, or pipeline monitoring events.
</claims>
</document>
