<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AVAST SOFTWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
Neznal, Martin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73550287
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ANOMALY DETECTION IN BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE TIME SERIES
</title>

<abstract>
A method of identifying anomalous traffic in a sequence of commercial transaction data includes preprocessing the commercial transaction data into a sequential time series of commercial transaction data, and providing the time series of commercial transaction data to a recurrent neural network. The recurrent neural network evaluates the provided time series of commercial transaction data to generate and output a predicted next element in the time series of commercial transaction data, which is compared with an observed actual next element in the time series of commercial transaction data. The observed next element in the time series of commercial transaction data is determined to be anomalous if it is sufficiently different from the predicted next element in the time series of commercial transaction data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of identifying anomalous data in a sequence of commercial transaction data, comprising: preprocessing commercial transaction data into a time series sequence of commercial transaction data; providing the time series to a recurrent neural network; evaluating the provided time series in the recurrent neural network to generate and output a predicted next element in the time series; comparing the predicted next element in the time series with an observed actual next element in the time series; and determining whether the observed next element in the time series is anomalous based on a difference between the predicted next element in the time series with an observed actual next element in the time series.
2. The method of identifying anomalous data in a sequence of commercial transaction data of claim 1, wherein the time series sequence of commercial transaction data is a high-dimensional time series sequence of commercial transaction data.
3. The method of identifying anomalous data in a sequence of commercial transaction data of claim 2, wherein the high-dimensional time series comprises 30 or more features derived from the sequence of commercial transactions during preprocessing.
4. The method of identifying anomalous data in a sequence of commercial transaction data of claim 1, wherein the recurrent neural network is configured to provide an output based on both the current input and at least one prior input in the sequence previously provided to the recurrent neural network.
5. The method of identifying anomalous data in a sequence of commercial transaction data of claim 1, wherein the recurrent neural network is trained on windowed sequences from the sequence of computer network traffic.
6. The method of identifying anomalous data in a sequence of commercial transaction data of claim 5, wherein the window comprises a multiple of a day, a week, or a month.
7. The method of identifying anomalous data in a sequence of commercial transaction data of claim 1, wherein the difference between the predicted next element in the high-dimensional time series and an observed actual next element in the high-dimensional time series comprise at least one of long short history threshold, self-adapting dynamic threshold, absolute difference, difference relative to either predicted or actual observed next element, z-score, dynamic threshold, or difference between short-term and long-term prediction error.
8. The method of identifying anomalous data in a sequence of commercial transaction data of claim 1, further comprising notifying a user upon determination that the observed next element in the time series is anomalous.
9. A computer system configured to detect anomalies in a sequence of commercial transaction data, comprising: a processor operable to execute a series of computer instructions; and a set of computer instructions comprising a preprocessor module, a recurrent neural network module, and an output module; the preprocessor module operable to process commercial transaction data into a time series sequence of commercial transaction data; the recurrent neural network module operable to receive the time series sequence of commercial transaction data from the preprocessor and to evaluate the provided time series sequence of commercial transaction data to generate and output a predicted next element in the time series sequence of commercial transaction data; and the output module operable to compare the predicted next element in the time series sequence of commercial transaction data with an observed actual next element in the time series sequence of commercial transaction data, and to determine whether the observed next element in the time series sequence of commercial transaction data is anomalous based on a difference between the predicted next element in the time series sequence of commercial transaction data with an observed actual next element in the time series sequence of commercial transaction data.
10. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the time series sequence of commercial transaction data is a high-dimensional time series sequence of commercial transaction data.
11. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the high-dimensional time series comprises 30 or more features derived from the sequence of commercial transactions during preprocessing.
12. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the recurrent neural network module is configured to provide the output based on both the current input and at least one prior input in the sequence previously provided to the recurrent neural network.
13. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the recurrent neural network is trained on windowed sequences from the sequence of commercial transaction data.
14. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the window comprises a multiple of a day, a week, or a month.
15. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the difference between the predicted next element in the time series sequence of commercial transaction data and an observed actual next element in the time series sequence of commercial transaction data comprise at least one of long short history threshold, self-adapting dynamic threshold, absolute difference, difference relative to either predicted or actual observed next element, z-score, dynamic threshold, or difference between short-term and long-term prediction error.
16. The computer system of claim 9, the output module further operable to notify a user upon determination that the observed next element in the time series sequence of commercial transaction data is anomalous.
17. A method of training a recurrent neural network to identify anomalous traffic in a sequence of commercial transaction data, comprising: preprocessing commercial transaction data into a time series sequence of commercial transaction data; providing the time series to a recurrent neural network; evaluating the provided time series in the recurrent neural network to generate and output a predicted next element in the time series; comparing the predicted next element in the time series with an observed actual next element in the time series; and training the recurrent neural network to better predict the next element using the loss metric by adjusting coefficients of the recurrent neural network to reduce the loss metric.
18. The method of training a recurrent neural network of claim 16, further comprising repeating the preprocessing, providing, evaluating, comparing, and training steps for a series of sequential windowed data sets derived from the commercial transaction data.
19. The method of training a recurrent neural network of claim 16, wherein the time series sequence of commercial transaction data is a high-dimensional time series sequence of commercial transaction data.
20. The method of training a recurrent neural network of claim 18, wherein the high-dimensional time series comprises 30 or more features derived from the sequence of commercial transactions during preprocessing.
21. The method of training a recurrent neural network of claim 16, wherein the difference between the predicted next element in the high-dimensional time series and an observed actual next element in the high-dimensional time series comprise at least one of long short history threshold, self-adapting dynamic threshold, absolute difference, difference relative to either predicted or actual observed next element, z-score, dynamic threshold, or difference between short-term and long-term prediction error.
</claims>
</document>
