<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/021,A61B5/053,A61B5/07,A61N1/365,A61N1/372,A61N1/375
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDTRONIC
</assignee>

<inventors>
WARMAN, EDUARDO N.
BENNETT, TOMMY, D.
HETTRICK, DOUGLAS, A.
SARKAR, SHANTANU
ZIELINSKI, TODD, M.
Burnes, John E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71899886
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SENSING FOR HEART FAILURE MANAGEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
In some examples, determining a heart failure status of a patient using a medical device comprising a plurality of electrodes includes determining an estimated arterial pressure waveform of the patient based on an arterial impedance signal received from at least two of the plurality of electrodes. The estimated arterial pressure waveform may comprise a plurality of arterial pressure cycles. Each of the plurality of arterial pressure cycles may correspond to a different cardiac cycle of a plurality of cardiac cycles of the patient. At least one value of an intrinsic frequency of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle may be determined for at least some of the plurality of cardiac cycles and the heart failure status of the patient may be determined based on the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining a heart failure status of a patient using a medical device comprising a plurality of electrodes, the method comprising, by processing circuitry of a medical device system comprising the medical device: determining an estimated arterial pressure waveform of the patient based on an arterial impedance signal received from at least two of the plurality of electrodes, wherein the estimated arterial pressure waveform comprises a plurality of arterial pressure cycles and wherein each of the plurality of arterial pressure cycles corresponds to a different cardiac cycle of a plurality of cardiac cycles of the patient; determining, for at least some of the plurality of cardiac cycles, at least one value of an intrinsic frequency of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle; and determining the heart failure status of the patient based on the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency comprises a value of a first intrinsic frequency of a first portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle, the method further comprising, for the at least some of the plurality of cardiac cycles: determining a value of a second intrinsic frequency of a second portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle that is subsequent to the first portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle, wherein determining the heart failure status of the patient based on the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency comprises determining the heart failure status of the patient based on the value of the first intrinsic frequency and the value of the second intrinsic frequency.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising comparing the value of the first intrinsic frequency to the value of the second intrinsic frequency, wherein determining the heart failure status of the patient based on the value of the first intrinsic frequency and the value of the second intrinsic frequency comprises determining the heart failure status of the patient based on the comparison.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein comparing the value of the first intrinsic frequency to the value of the second intrinsic frequency comprises determining at least one of a difference between the value of the first intrinsic frequency and the value of the second intrinsic frequency or a ratio of the value of the first intrinsic frequency to the value of the second intrinsic frequency, and wherein determining the heart failure status based on the comparison comprises determining the heart failure status of the patient based on the at least one of the differences or the ratios.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising assigning a weight to at least one of the value of the first intrinsic frequency or the value of the second intrinsic frequency prior to comparing the value of the first intrinsic frequency to the value of the second intrinsic frequency.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the first portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle occurs prior to a dicrotic notch of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle and the second portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle occurs subsequent to the dicrotic notch of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein the value of the first intrinsic frequency comprises a value of a dominant frequency of the first portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle around which an instantaneous frequency of the first portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle oscillates, and wherein the value of the second intrinsic frequency comprises a value of a dominant frequency of the second portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle around which an instantaneous frequency of the second portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle oscillates.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the heart failure status of the patient comprises: comparing the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency to at least one threshold value; and determining the heart failure status of the patient based on the comparison.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the plurality of arterial pressure cycles comprises at least one current arterial pressure cycle and at least one previous arterial pressure cycle, the method further comprising determining the at least one threshold value based on the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency of the at least one previous arterial pressure cycle.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising, by the processing circuitry: transmitting the heart failure status of the patient to a remote computer; and receiving, from the remote computer, instructions for a medical intervention based on the heart failure status of the patient.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising transmitting the instructions for the medical intervention to a user interface.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the instructions for the medical intervention comprise at least one of a change in a drug selection, a change in a drug dosage, instructions to schedule a visit with a clinician, or instructions for the patient to seek medical attention.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising, in response to a worsening of the heart failure status presenting, by the remote computer, a graphical user interface indicating the worsening of the heart failure status.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the heart failure status of the patient based on the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency comprises determining, by the processing circuitry, a probability that the patient will experience an adverse medical event.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the medical device system further comprises a medical device configured to deliver cardiac pacing to the patient, the method further comprising: determining a value of at least one pacing parameter based on the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency; and controlling the medical device to deliver the cardiac pacing at the determined value of the at least one pacing parameter.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the at least one pacing parameter comprises at least one cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) parameter, and wherein controlling the medical device to deliver the cardiac pacing at the value of the at least one pacing parameter comprises controlling the medical device to provide CRT.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency comprises a first physiological parameter of the patient, and wherein determining the heart failure status of the patient comprises determining the heart failure status of the patient based on a plurality of physiological parameters comprising the first physiological parameter.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the plurality of physiological parameters further comprises a subcutaneous tissue impedance of the patient, the method further comprising: determining a value of the subcutaneous tissue impedance based on a subcutaneous tissue impedance signal received from at least two of the plurality of electrodes that are the same as or different from the at least two electrodes from which the processing circuitry receives the arterial impedance signal, wherein determining the heart failure status of the patient based on the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency comprises determining the heart failure status of the patient based on the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency and the value of the subcutaneous tissue impedance.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency comprises determining a representative value of the intrinsic frequency based on at least two values of the intrinsic frequency of at least two corresponding arterial pressure cycles.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein the medical device is an implantable medical device configured for implantation within the patient.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the implantable medical device comprises a housing, wherein the at the least two of the plurality of electrodes are positioned on the housing, and wherein the housing is configured for implantation within the patient such that the at least two of the plurality of electrodes are substantially aligned with a longitudinal axis of an artery of the patient.
22. The method of claim 20, wherein the implantable medical device comprises a leadless implantable medical device.
23. A system for determining a heart failure status of a patient using a medical device comprising a plurality of electrodes, the system comprising: the medical device, wherein the medical device comprises one or more sensors; and processing circuitry configured to: determine an estimated arterial pressure waveform of the patient based on an arterial impedance signal received from at least two of the plurality of electrodes, wherein the estimated arterial pressure waveform comprises a plurality of arterial pressure cycles and wherein each of the plurality of arterial pressure cycles corresponds to a different cardiac cycle of a plurality of cardiac cycles of the patient; determine, for at least some of the plurality of cardiac cycles, at least one value of an intrinsic frequency of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle; and determine the heart failure status of the patient based on the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency comprises a value of a first intrinsic frequency of a first portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle, the processing circuitry further configured to, for the at least some of the plurality of cardiac cycles: determine a value of a second intrinsic frequency of a second portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle that is subsequent to the first portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the heart failure status of the patient based on the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency by at least determining the heart failure status of the patient based on the value of the first intrinsic frequency and the value of the second intrinsic frequency.
25. The system of claim 24, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to compare the value of the first intrinsic frequency to the value of the second intrinsic frequency, and wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the heart failure status of the patient based on the value of the first intrinsic frequency and the value of the second intrinsic frequency by at least determining the heart failure status of the patient based on the comparison.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to compare the value of the first intrinsic frequency to the value of the second intrinsic frequency by at least determining at least one of a difference between the value of the first intrinsic frequency and the value of the second intrinsic frequency or a ratio of the value of the first intrinsic frequency to the value of the second intrinsic frequency, and wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the heart failure status based on the comparison by at least determining the heart failure status of the patient based on the at least one of the differences or the ratios.
27. The system of claim 25, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to assign a weight to at least one of the value of the first intrinsic frequency or the value of the second intrinsic frequency prior to comparing the value of the first intrinsic frequency to the value of the second intrinsic frequency.
28. The system of claim 24, wherein the first portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle occurs prior to a dicrotic notch of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle and the second portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle occurs subsequent to the dicrotic notch of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle.
29. The system of claim 24, wherein the value of the first intrinsic frequency comprises a value of a dominant frequency of the first portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle around which an instantaneous frequency of the first portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle oscillates, and wherein the value of the second intrinsic frequency comprises a value of a dominant frequency of the second portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle around which an instantaneous frequency of the second portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle oscillates.
30. The system of claim 23, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the heart failure status of the patient by at least: comparing the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency to at least one threshold value; and determining the heart failure status of the patient based on the comparison.
31. The system of claim 30, wherein the plurality of arterial pressure cycles comprises at least one current arterial pressure cycle and at least one previous arterial pressure cycle, the method further comprising determining the at least one threshold value based on the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency of the at least one previous arterial pressure cycle.
32. The system of claim 23, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: transmit the heart failure status of the patient to a remote computer; and receive, from the remote computer, instructions for a medical intervention based on the heart failure status of the patient.
33. The system of claim 32, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to transmit the instructions for the medical intervention to a user interface.
34. The system of claim 32, wherein the instructions for the medical intervention comprise at least one of a change in a drug selection, a change in a drug dosage, instructions to schedule a visit with a clinician, or instructions for the patient to seek medical attention.
35. The system of claim 32, further comprising the remote computer, wherein, in response to a worsening of the heart failure status the remote computer is configured to present a graphical user interface indicating the worsening of the heart failure status.
36. The system of claim 23, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the heart failure status of the patient based on the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency at least by determining a possibility that the patient will experience an adverse medical event.
37. The system of claim 23, wherein the medical device system further comprises a medical device configured to deliver cardiac pacing to the patient, and wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: determine a value of at least one pacing parameter based on the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency; and control the medical device to deliver the cardiac pacing at the determined value of the at least one pacing parameter.
38. The system of claim 23, wherein the at least one pacing parameter comprises at least one cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) parameter, and wherein the processing circuitry is configured to control the medical device to deliver the cardiac pacing at the value of the at least one pacing parameter by at least controlling the medical device to provide CRT.
39. The system of claim 23, wherein the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency comprises a first physiological parameter of the patient, and wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the heart failure status of the patient by at least determining the heart failure status of the patient based on a plurality of physiological parameters comprising the first physiological parameter.
40. The system of claim 39, wherein the plurality of physiological parameters further comprises a subcutaneous tissue impedance of the patient, and wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: determine a value of the subcutaneous tissue impedance based on a subcutaneous tissue impedance signal received from at least two of the plurality of electrodes that are the same as or different from the at least two electrodes from which the processing circuitry receives the arterial impedance signal, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the heart failure status of the patient based on the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency by at least determining the heart failure status of the patient based on the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency and the value of the subcutaneous tissue impedance.
41. The system of claim 23, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency by at least determining a representative value of the intrinsic frequency based on at least two values of the intrinsic frequency of at least two corresponding arterial pressure cycles.
42. The system of claim 23, wherein the medical device is an implantable medical device configured for implantation within the patient.
43. The system of claim 42, wherein the implantable medical device comprises a housing, wherein the at the least two of the plurality of electrodes are positioned on the housing, and wherein the housing is configured for implantation within the patient such that the at least two of the plurality of electrodes are substantially aligned with a longitudinal axis of an artery of the patient.
44. The system of claim 42, wherein the implantable medical device comprises a leadless implantable medical device.
45. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions for causing processing circuitry to perform a method for determining a heart failure status of a patient using a medical device comprising a plurality of electrodes, the method comprising, by processing circuitry of a medical device system comprising the medical device: determining an estimated arterial pressure waveform of the patient based on an arterial impedance signal received from at least two of the plurality of electrodes, wherein the estimated arterial pressure waveform comprises a plurality of arterial pressure cycles and wherein each of the plurality of arterial pressure cycles corresponds to a different cardiac cycle of a plurality of cardiac cycles of the patient; determining, for at least some of the plurality of cardiac cycles, at least one value of an intrinsic frequency of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle; and determining the heart failure status of the patient based on the at least one value of the intrinsic frequency.
46. A system for determining a heart failure status of a patient using an implantable medical device comprising a plurality of electrodes, the system comprising: the implantable medical device; and processing circuitry configured to: determine an estimated arterial pressure waveform of the patient based on an arterial impedance signal received from at least two of the plurality of electrodes, wherein the estimated arterial pressure waveform comprises a plurality of arterial pressure cycles and wherein each of the plurality of arterial pressure cycles corresponds to a different cardiac cycle of a plurality of cardiac cycles of the patient; determine, for at least some of the plurality of cardiac cycles: a value of a first intrinsic frequency of a first portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle; and a value of a second intrinsic frequency of a second portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle that is subsequent to the first portion of the corresponding arterial pressure cycle; determine the heart failure status based on the value of the first intrinsic frequency and the value of the second intrinsic frequency; and transmit the heart failure status of the patient to a remote computer; and the remote computer, wherein the remote computer comprises processing circuitry configured to: receive the heart failure status of the patient transmitted by the processing circuitry of the implantable medical device; and transmit the instructions for the medical intervention to a user interface.
47. The system of claim 46, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine at least one of a difference between the value of the first intrinsic frequency and the value of the second intrinsic frequency or a ratio of the value of the first intrinsic frequency to the value of the second intrinsic frequency, and determine the heart failure status based on the at least one of the difference or ratio.
48. The system of claim 47, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to compare the at least one of the difference or the ratio to at least one corresponding threshold difference value or threshold ratio value, and determine the heart failure status based on the comparison.
49. The system of claim 46, wherein, in response to a worsening of the heart failure status the remote computer is configured to present a graphical user interface indicating the worsening of the heart failure status.
</claims>
</document>
