<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-09-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES, AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BUSHMITCH, DENNIS
COZBY, RICHARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55584823
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Learning System
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments are described that relate to an adaptive learning system. The adaptive learning system can be trained by correlation between a first set of raw technical performance data and a set of actual operational effectiveness assessment data. Once trained, the adaptive learning system can be deployed. Once deployed, the adaptive learning system can produce a set of predicted operational effectiveness assessment data from a second set of raw technical performance data that is different from the first set of raw technical performance data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: predicting a first operational score for a first individual service by way of a first service adaptive learning system; predicting a second operational score for a second individual service by way of a second service adaptive learning system that is distinct from the first service adaptive learning system; and predicting an overall operational effectiveness though use of an operational adaptive learning system, where the overall operational effectiveness is based, at least in part, on the first operational score and the second operational score.
2. The method of claim 1, where the first service adaptive learning system is trained from a set of training technical performance data and a set of training operational assessment data.
3. The method of claim 2, where the set of training operational assessment data is human produced.
4. The method of claim 2, where the set of training operational assessment data is produced from mathematical calculation.
5. The method of claim 1, where the first service adaptive learning system is trained prior to predicting the first operational score, where the first service adaptive learning system is validated after being trained and prior to predicting the first operational score, where the second service adaptive learning system is trained prior to predicting the second operational score, and where the second service adaptive learning system is validated after being trained and prior to predicting the second operational score.
6. The method of claim 5, where the first service adaptive learning system is trained while online and where the first service adaptive learning system is validated while online.
7. The method of claim 1, where the first individual service and the second individual service are on the same hierarchical level.
8. The method of claim 1, where the first service adaptive learning system is a first service adaptive deep learning system of at least five layers.
9. A non-transitory computer-readable medium configured to store processor executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform a method, the method comprising: predicting a first operational score for a first individual service by way of a first service adaptive learning system; predicting a second operational score for a second individual service by way of a second service adaptive learning system that is distinct from the first service adaptive learning system; and predicting an overall operational effectiveness though use of an operational adaptive learning system, where the overall operational effectiveness is based, at least in part, on the first operational score and the second operational score, where the first service adaptive learning system is a first service adaptive deep learning system of at least five layers, and where the second service adaptive learning system is a second service adaptive deep learning system of at least five layers.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, where the first service adaptive learning system is trained from a set of training technical performance data and a set of training operational assessment data.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, where the set of training operational assessment data is human produced.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, where the set of training operational assessment data is produced from mathematical calculation.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, where the first service adaptive learning system is trained prior to predicting the first operational score, where the first service adaptive learning system is validated after being trained and prior to predicting the first operational score, where the second service adaptive learning system is trained prior to predicting the second operational score, and where the second service adaptive learning system is validated after being trained and prior to predicting the second operational score.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, where the first service adaptive learning system is trained while online and where the first service adaptive learning system is validated while online.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, where the first individual service and the second individual service are on the same hierarchical level.
16. A method, comprising: predicting a first operational score for a first individual service by way of a first service adaptive learning system; predicting a second operational score for a second individual service by way of a second service adaptive learning system that is distinct from the first service adaptive learning system; and predicting an overall operational effectiveness though use of an operational adaptive learning system, where the overall operational effectiveness is based, at least in part, on the first operational score and the second operational score, where the first service adaptive learning system is trained from a first set of training technical performance data and a first set of training operational assessment data, where the first service adaptive learning system is trained from a second set of training technical performance data and a second set of training operational assessment data, and where the first individual service and the second individual service are on the same hierarchical level.
17. The method of claim 16, where the first service adaptive learning system is trained prior to predicting the first operational score, where the first service adaptive learning system is validated after being trained and prior to predicting the first operational score, where the second service adaptive learning system is trained prior to predicting the second operational score, and where the second service adaptive learning system is validated after being trained and prior to predicting the second operational score.
18. The method of claim 17, where the first service adaptive learning system is trained while online, where the first service adaptive learning system is validated while online, where the first service adaptive learning system is a first service adaptive deep learning system of at least five layers, where the second service adaptive learning system is trained while online, where the second service adaptive learning system is validated while online, and where the second service adaptive learning system is a second service adaptive deep learning system of at least five layers.
19. The method of claim 18, where the first set of training operational assessment data is human produced, where the first set of training technical performance data and the second set of training technical performance data is identical, and where the first set of training operational assessment data and the second set of training technical performance data is identical.
20. The method of claim 18, where the set of training operational assessment data is produced from mathematical calculation, where the first set of training technical performance data and the second set of training technical performance data is not identical, and where the first set of training operational assessment data and the second set of training technical performance data is not identical.
</claims>
</document>
