<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G16H20/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOMHEALTH
</assignee>

<inventors>
DANIEL, SUNIL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69055309
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PERSONALIZED WELLNESS MANAGEMENT USING MACHINE LEARNING AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE TECHNIQUES
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure generally relates to a system and method for generating personalized wellness plans for users and monitoring adherence to such plans while providing real-time feedback to users. The personalized wellness plans are generated based on machine learning and/or artificial intelligence techniques and can provide guidance for weight loss, exercise, behavior and lifestyle modification, and integrative health and mindfulness.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for monitoring adherence to a behavior modification program, comprising: receiving, at a server, a preferred food type of a user and a physiological data related to the user; determining, by the server, if the preferred food type is a restricted food or an allowed food, based on the physiological data; receiving, at the server, location data collected over a period of time from at least one of a wearable device or a mobile computing device; determining, by the server, a user's commute based on the location data; identifying, by the server, a dining option along the commute that offers the preferred food type; transmitting, by the server, a warning message to the user to avoid dining at the dining option if the preferred food type is a restricted food; and transmitting, by the server, an encouragement message to the user to dine at the dining option if the preferred food type is an allowed food.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the physiological data is related to at least one of the user's weight, body mass index, metabolism, gut microbiome, or epigenetics.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the physiological data indicates at least one health condition selected from a group consisting of obesity, diabetes, chronic disease, and cardiovascular disease.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the server determines if the preferred food type is a restricted food or an allowed food using a machine learning technique.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the warning message is displayed on a display of the wearable device or the mobile computing device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the warning message is a live audio or video call from a human coach or a virtual coach.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising, transmitting, by the server, a list of alternative dining options if the preferred food type is a restricted food.
8. A method for monitoring adherence to a behavior modification program, comprising: receiving, at a server, a preferred food type of a user and a physiological data related to the user; determining, by the server, if the preferred food type is a restricted food or an allowed food, based on the physiological data; receiving, at the server, location data collected over a period of time from at least one of a wearable device or a mobile computing device; determining, by the server, a user's commute based on the location data; identifying, by the server, a dining option along the commute that offers the preferred food type; analyzing, by the server, a hunger hormone level of the user; transmitting, by the server, a warning message to the user to avoid dining at the dining option if the preferred food type is a restricted food and the hunger hormone level of the user is above a threshold value; and transmitting, by the server, an encouragement message to the user to dine at the dining option if the preferred food type is an allowed food.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the hunger hormone level is based on analysis of a hormone selected from a group consisting of ghrelin, leptin, cortisol, glucose, insulin, neuropeptide Y (NPY), agouti-related protein (AgRP), proopiomelanocortin, alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (α-MSH), cocaineand amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART), cholecystokinin, peptide tyrosine tyrosine (PYY), pancreatic polypeptide (PP), oxyntomodulin, glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP), and adiponectin.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the server determines if the preferred food type is a restricted food or an allowed food based on an analysis of a population cohort having a similar physiological data as the user.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the physiological data indicates a stress level of the user.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the warning message includes a weight loss goal.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the encouragement message includes a visual indication of progress towards a weight loss goal.
14. The method of claim 8, where the warning message includes a haptic feedback delivered via the wearable device or the mobile computing device.
15. A method for monitoring adherence to a behavior modification program, comprising: receiving, at a server, a preferred food type of a user and a physiological data related to the user; determining, by the server, if the preferred food type is a restricted food or an allowed food, based on the physiological data; receiving, at the server, location data collected over a period of time from at least one of a wearable device or a mobile computing device; determining, by the server, a user's commute based on the location data; identifying, by the server, a dining option along the commute that offers the preferred food type; analyzing, by the server, a hunger hormone level of the user; transmitting, by the server, an alternative commute for the user in order to avoid being in proximity to the dining option if the preferred food type is a restricted food and the hunger hormone level of the user is above a threshold value.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the server determines the alternative commute based using a machine learning technique.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the server determines if the preferred food type is a restricted food or an allowed food using a machine learning technique.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the hunger hormone level is based on analysis of a hormone selected from a group consisting of ghrelin, leptin, cortisol, glucose, insulin, neuropeptide Y (NPY), agouti-related protein (AgRP), proopiomelanocortin, alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (α-MSH), cocaineand amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART), cholecystokinin, peptide tyrosine tyrosine (PYY), pancreatic polypeptide (PP), oxyntomodulin, glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), gastric inhibitory polypeptide (GIP), and adiponectin.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein the server determines if the preferred food type is a restricted food or an allowed food based on an analysis of a population cohort having a similar physiological data as the user.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein the physiological data indicates at least one medical condition selected from a group consisting of obesity, diabetes, chronic disease, and cardiovascular disease.
</claims>
</document>
