<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/26,H04L29/06,H04L29/08,H04W12/06,H04W28/02,H04W48/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUALCOMM
</assignee>

<inventors>
JAMES, ARTHUR
MIOCINOVIC, SRDJAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74043419
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USER IDENTIFICATION IN RADIO FREQUENCY ENVIRONMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure provides methods, systems, and devices for user authentication in radio frequency environments. In one aspect, an access point (AP) may collect channel information from a station (STA) in a mesh network, and receive, from a cloud platform, a user profile including a fingerprint of the STA and fingerprint of a user associated with the STA based on the collected channel information. The AP may determine a profile of wireless traffic from the STA in the mesh network and identify the STA and the user associated with the STA based on comparing the user profile to the profile of the wireless traffic. As a result, the AP may authenticate the STA and the user associated with the STA based on the comparison.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method at an access point, comprising: collecting channel information from a station in a mesh network; receiving, from a cloud platform, a user profile comprising one or more of a fingerprint of the station and a fingerprint of a user associated with the station based at least in part on the channel information; determining a profile of wireless traffic from the station in the mesh network; identifying one or more of the station and the user associated with the station based at least in part on comparing the user profile to the profile of the wireless traffic; and authenticating one or more of the station and the user associated with the station based at least in part on the identifying.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein collecting the channel information comprises: receiving channel state information from the station, the channel state information comprising a measurement of one or more orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) carriers associated with the station.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein collecting the channel information comprises: monitoring round trip information between the station and the access point in the mesh network, wherein the round trip information comprises one or more of a round trip time, a round trip phase offset, and an angle of arrival.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein collecting the channel information comprises: monitoring one or more of a signal strength, a signal power, and a signal quality of the station in the mesh network.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein collecting the channel information comprises: obtaining biometric information from the user associated with the station, wherein the biometric information comprises one or more of voice recognition information, facial recognition information, or physiological recognition information.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the profile of the wireless traffic from the station in the mesh network comprises: determining that the wireless traffic is associated with a value-added service; authenticating one or more of the station and the user associated with the station to the value-added service based at least in part on comparing the user profile to the profile of the wireless traffic relating to the value-added service; and transmitting authentication credentials to the value-added service based at least in part on the authentication.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: identifying a policy setting associated with the value-added service, wherein authenticating the one or more of the station and the user associated with the station to the value-added service is further based at least in part on the policy setting.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: determining additional information of the user associated with the station based at least in part on the policy setting, the additional information comprising biometric information, temporal information, location information of an additional station associated with the user, or usage information of the additional station associated with the user, wherein identifying the one or more of the station and the user associated with the station is further based at least in part on the additional information.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein transmitting the authentication credentials to the value-added service comprises: including a token in a header of a packet associated with the wireless traffic relating to the value-added service, the token comprising the authentication credentials.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the profile of the wireless traffic from the station in the mesh network comprises: determining a difference between the user profile and the profile of the wireless traffic based at least in part on the comparing; and identifying an additional user profile of the user associated with an additional station in the mesh network, wherein identifying the one or more of the station and the user associated with the station is further based at least in part on comparing the additional user profile to the profile of the wireless traffic.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the profile of the wireless traffic from the station in the mesh network comprises: determining a difference between the user profile and the profile of the wireless traffic based at least in part on the comparing; determining that an other user is operating the station based at least in part on the difference between the user profile and the profile of the wireless traffic; and performing an action according to a setting of the station based at least in part on the other user operating the station.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein performing the action according to the setting of the station comprises: preventing access to one or more features of the station.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing an authentication and verification of the access point to the cloud platform, the authentication and verification comprising one or more of a station identifier and a security mode of the access point, wherein transmitting the channel information to the cloud platform is further based at least in part on the authentication and verification.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein comparing the user profile to the profile of the wireless traffic comprises: comparing one or more of the fingerprint of the station and the fingerprint of the user associated with the station to a fingerprint of the wireless traffic.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a local database comprising a set of users associated with the station, a set of user profiles comprising a set of fingerprints, each fingerprint of the set corresponding to different users of the set of users, and a set of policies corresponding to the set of users, wherein comparing the user profile to the profile of the wireless traffic is further based at least in part on the local database.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting the channel information to the cloud platform, wherein receiving, from the cloud platform, the user profile is based at least in part on the transmitting, and the user profile is determined based at least in part on a machine learning scheme.
17. An apparatus, comprising: a processor, memory coupled with the processor; and instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: collect channel information from a station in a mesh network; receive, from a cloud platform, a user profile comprising one or more of a fingerprint of the station and a fingerprint of a user associated with the station based at least in part on the channel information; determine a profile of wireless traffic from the station in the mesh network; identify one or more of the station and the user associated with the station based at least in part on comparing the user profile to the profile of the wireless traffic; and authenticate one or more of the station and the user associated with the station based at least in part on the identifying.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the instructions to determine the profile of the wireless traffic from the station in the mesh network are executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: determine that the wireless traffic is associated with a value-added service; authenticate one or more of the station and the user associated with the station to the value-added service based at least in part on comparing the user profile to the profile of the wireless traffic relating to the value-added service; and transmit authentication credentials to the value-added service based at least in part on the authentication.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: identify a policy setting associated with the value-added service, wherein authenticating the one or more of the station and the user associated with the station to the value-added service is further based at least in part on the policy setting.
20. An apparatus, comprising: means for collecting channel information from a station in a mesh network; means for receiving, from a cloud platform, a user profile comprising one or more of a fingerprint of the station and a fingerprint of a user associated with the station based at least in part on the channel information; means for determining a profile of wireless traffic from the station in the mesh network; means for identifying one or more of the station and the user associated with the station based at least in part on comparing the user profile to the profile of the wireless traffic; and means for authenticating one or more of the station and the user associated with the station based at least in part on the identifying.
</claims>
</document>
