<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B34/10,A61B34/20,A61B90/00,A61F2/24,G06T19/20,G06T7/149,G06T7/33,G16H20/40,G16H30/40,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRASS, MICHAEL
MORALES VARELA, HERNAN GUILLERMO
WISSEL, TOBIAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59315539
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PREDICTING AN UNFOLDED STATE OF A FOLDABLE IMPLANT IN BIOLOGICAL TISSUE
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to a device for predicting an unfolded state of a foldable implant in biological tissue, the device comprising: a receiving unit configured to receive pre -treatment 3D planning image data and treatment image data, the treatment image data comprising catheter image data, the catheter image data comprising landmark image data; a segmentation module configured to segment the pre-treatment 3D planning image data resulting in segmented 3D planning image data; a search unit configured to locate the landmark image data within the treatment image data resulting in a known landmark position and a known landmark orientation; a registration module configured to register the segmented 3D planning image data to the treatment image data resulting in registered treatment image data; and a simulation unit configured to simulate an unfolded state of a foldable implant in biological tissue based on the known landmark position and the known landmark orientation in the biological tissue resulting in a simulated unfolded implant positioned in biological tissue. The present invention provides the knowledge of the unfolded implant in the biological tissue as well as its interaction with the anatomical placement domain at the current landmark position prior to the real deployment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device for predicting an unfolded state of a foldable implant in biological tissue, the device comprising: a receiving unit; a segmentation module; a search unit; a registration module; and a simulation unit; wherein the receiving unit is configured to receive pre-treatment 3D planning image data and treatment image data, the treatment image data comprising catheter image data, the catheter image data comprising landmark image data; wherein the landmark image data comprises device-based landmark image data wherein the segmentation module is configured to segment the pre-treatment 3D planning image data resulting in segmented 3D planning image data; wherein the search unit is configured to locate the landmark image data within the treatment image data resulting in a known landmark position and a known landmark orientation; wherein the registration module is configured to register the segmented 3D planning image data to the treatment image data resulting in registered treatment image data; and wherein the simulation unit is configured to simulate an unfolded state of the foldable implant in the biological tissue based on the known landmark position and the known landmark orientation in the registered treatment image data resulting in a simulated unfolded implant positioned in the biological tissue.
2. Device according to claim 1, wherein the device further comprises: a feedback module; wherein the feedback module is configured to provide a visual feedback of the simulated unfolded implant positioned in the biological tissue.
3. Device according to claim 1, wherein the registration module is implemented by a dedicated 3D/3D or 2D/3D inter-modality registration algorithm.
4. Device according to claim 1, wherein the biological tissue is one of cardiovascular tissue, peripheral vascular tissue, kidney tissue or liver tissue.
5. Device according to claim 1, wherein the registration module is configured to minimize a cost function that relates image and contrast features of corresponding scans of similar modalities in the pre-treatment 3D planning image data and the treatment image data.
6. Device according to claim 1, wherein the segmentation module is configured to apply a segmentation to the treatment image data resulting in segmented treatment image data; wherein the registration module is configured to register an output of the segmented pre-treatment 3D-planning image data and an output of the segmented treatment image data.
7. Device according to claim 1, wherein the registration module is configured to register the segmented 3D planning image data to the treatment image data based on a set of natural landmarks and/or a set of artificial landmarks.
8. Device according to claim 1, wherein the segmentation unit is configured to adapting a shape-constrained deformable model to the 3D planning image so as to generate a patient-specific personalized surface mesh; and wherein, preferably, the simulation unit is configured to carry out the simulation by modeling an interaction between the implant and the personalized surface.
9. (canceled)
10. Device according to claim 1, wherein the simulation unit is configured to provide one or more quantitative parameters representing potential complications caused by the unfolded implant.
11. A system for predicting an unfolded state of a foldable implant in biological tissue, the system comprising: a catheter; and a device according to claim 1; wherein the catheter comprises at least one landmark; and a foldable implant in a folded state; wherein the catheter is insertable in a patient's vascular system.
12. System according to claim 11, wherein the system further comprises: an image acquisition device; wherein the image acquisition device is configured to acquire treatment image data; and wherein the image acquisition device is configured to provide the treatment image data.
13. System according to claim 11, wherein the foldable implant is a foldable valve implant.
14. A method for predicting the position of an unfolded state of a foldable implant in biological tissue, the method comprising the following steps: a) receiving pre-treatment 3D planning image data with a receiving unit; b) receiving treatment image data with the receiving unit, the treatment image data, wherein the landmark image data comprises device-based landmark image data comprising catheter image data with landmark image data; c) segmenting the pre-treatment 3D planning image data with a segmentation module resulting in segmented 3D planning image data; d) locating the device-based landmark image data within the treatment image data with a search unit resulting in a known landmark position and a known landmark orientation; and e) registering the segmented 3D planning image data to the treatment image data with a registration module resulting in registered treatment image data; f) simulating an unfolded state of the foldable implant relative to the known landmark position and the known landmark orientation in the registered treatment image data with a simulation unit resulting in a simulated unfolded implant positioned in biological tissue; and wherein step b) and c) may be performed in any order.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored a computer program element for controlling a device for predicting an unfolded state of a foldable implant in biological tissue, the device comprising: a receiving unit; a segmentation module; a search unit; a registration module; and a simulation unit; wherein the receiving unit is configured to receive pre-treatment 3D planning image data and treatment image data, the treatment image data comprising catheter image data, the catheter image data comprising landmark image data; wherein the landmark image data comprises device-based landmark image data wherein the segmentation module is configured to segment the pre-treatment 3D planning image data resulting in segmented 3D planning image data; wherein the search unit is configured to locate the landmark image data within the treatment image data resulting in a known landmark position and a known landmark orientation; wherein the registration module is configured to register the segmented 3D planning image data to the treatment image data resulting in registered treatment image data; and wherein the simulation unit is configured to simulate an unfolded state of the foldable implant in the biological tissue based on the known landmark position and the known landmark orientation in the registered treatment image data resulting in a simulated unfolded implant positioned in the biological tissue or a system for predicting an unfolded state of a foldable implant in biological tissue, the system comprising: a catheter; and the device for predicting an unfolded state of a foldable implant in biological tissue, wherein the catheter comprises at least one landmark; and a foldable implant in a folded state; wherein the catheter is insertable in a patient's vascular system, which, when being executed by a processing unit, is adapted to perform the method steps of claim 14.
16. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
