<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W60/00,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GRAVES, DANIEL MARK
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRAVES, DANIEL MARK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72236016
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR CONTROLLING SAFETY OF EGO AND SOCIAL OBJECTS
</title>

<abstract>
A method or system for controlling safety of both an ego vehicle and social objects in an environment of the ego vehicle, comprising: receiving data representative of at least one social object and determining a current state of the ego vehicle based on sensor data; predicting an ego safety value corresponding to the ego vehicle, for each possible behavior action in a set of possible behavior actions, based on the current state; predicting a social safety value corresponding to the at least one social object in the environment of the ego vehicle, based on the current state, for each possible behavior action; and selecting a next behavior action for the ego vehicle, based on the ego safety values, the social safety values, and one or more target objectives for the ego vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for controlling safety of both an ego vehicle and at least one social object in an environment the ego vehicle is operating in, comprising: receiving data representative of the at least one social object; determining a current state of the ego vehicle based on sensor data; predicting, based on the current state, for each possible behavior action in a set of possible behavior actions, an ego safety value corresponding to the ego vehicle; predicting, based on the current state, for each possible behavior action, a social safety value corresponding to of the at least one social object in the environment of the ego vehicle; and selecting, based on the ego safety values, the social safety values, and one or more target objectives for the ego vehicle, a next behavior action for the ego vehicle.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein, for each possible behavior action: the ego safety value indicates a probability that an obstacle will not be located in an ego safety zone of the ego vehicle if the possible behavior action is performed by the ego vehicle and the target policy followed thereafter; and the social safety value indicates a probability, for the at least one social object, that the ego vehicle will not be located in a social safety zone of the social object if the possible behavior action is performed by the ego vehicle and the target policy followed thereafter.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the received data comprises data representative of a plurality of social objects, including the at least one social object, in the environment the ego vehicle, the method includes, for each possible behavior action, predicting a respective social safety value for each of the plurality of social objects, each social safety value indicating a probability that the ego vehicle will not be located in a respective social safety zone of the respective social object if the possible behavior action is performed by the ego vehicle and the target policy followed thereafter.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein determining the current state comprises determining a velocity and direction of the ego vehicle, and a velocity, direction and position of each of the plurality of social objects.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein predicting the ego safety value for each possible behavior action is performed by a general value function (GVF) implemented by a trained neural network; and predicting the social safety value for each possible behavior action for each of the plurality of social objects is performed by a further GVF implemented by a trained neural network.
6. The method of claim 2 wherein a size of one or both of the ego safety zone and the social safety zone is based on the current state.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein the ego safety zone comprises a physical space that includes and extends beyond the ego vehicle in a direction of travel of the ego vehicle, and the social safety zone for the at least one social object includes and extends beyond the social object in a direction of travel of the social object.
8. The method of claim 2 wherein, for each possible behavior action, the social safety value corresponds to a plurality of social objects in the environment of the ego vehicle, the social safety value indicating a probability that the ego vehicle will not be located in a respective social safety zone of any of the social objects if the possible behavior action is performed by the ego vehicle and the target policy followed thereafter.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein selecting the behavior action comprises: performing fuzzification of the ego safety value and the social safety value predicted for each of the possible behavior actions by mapping each of the ego safety values and the social safety values to a respective truth value; applying fuzzy inference on the truth values to generate a goal fuzzy set; and defuzzifying the goal fuzzy set to select the behavior action for the ego vehicle.
10. The method of claim 1 further comprising, for each behavior possible action, predicting, based on the current state, an ego comfort value corresponding to an acceleration of the ego vehicle, and selecting the behavior action is also based on the ego comfort values predicted for each possible behavior action.
11. An predictive safety control system comprising: a state module configured to determine a current state based on sensor data; an ego safety predictor module configured to predict, based on the current state, for each possible behavior action in a set of possible behavior actions generated by an action module, an ego safety value corresponding to the ego vehicle; a social safety predictor module configured to predict, based on the current state, for each of the possible behavior actions, a social safety value corresponding to at least one social object in an environment of the ego vehicle; and a safety controller configured to select, based on the ego safety values, the social safety values predicted for each of the possible behavior actions, and one or more target objectives, a next behavior action for ego vehicle.
12. The system of claim 11 wherein, for each possible behavior action: the ego safety value indicates a probability that an obstacle will not be located in an ego safety zone of the ego vehicle if the possible behavior action is performed by the ego vehicle; and the social safety value indicates a probability, for the at least one social object, that the ego vehicle will not be located in a social safety zone of the at least one social object if the possible behavior action is performed by the ego vehicle.
13. The system of claim 11 wherein the social safety predictor is configured to predict, for each possible behavior action, a respective social safety value for each of a plurality of social objects in the environment of the ego vehicle, each social safety value indicating a probability that the ego vehicle will not be located in a respective social safety zone of the respective social object if the possible behavior action is performed by the ego vehicle.
14. The system of claim 13 wherein the current state determined by the state module comprises velocity and direction of the ego vehicle, and a velocity, direction and position of each of the plurality of social objects.
15. The system of claim 14 wherein the ego safety predictor module comprises a general value function (GVF) implemented by a trained neural network for predicting ego safety values; and the social safety predictor module comprises a further GVF implemented by a trained neural network for predicting the social safety values for each of the plurality of social objects.
16. The system of claim 12 wherein a size of one or both of the ego safety zone and the social safety zone is based on the current state.
17. The system of claim 16 wherein the ego safety zone comprises a physical space that includes and extends beyond the ego vehicle in a direction of travel of the ego vehicle, and the social safety zone for the at least one social object includes and extends beyond the at least one social object in a direction of travel of the social object.
18. The system of claim 12 wherein, for each possible behavior action, the social safety value corresponds to a plurality of social objects in the environment of the ego vehicle, the social safety value indicating a probability that the ego vehicle will not be located in a respective social safety zone of any of the social objects if the possible behavior action is performed by the ego vehicle.
19. The system of claim 11 wherein the safety controller is configured to select the vehicle behavior action by: performing fuzzification of the ego safety value and the social safety value predicted for each of the possible behavior actions by mapping each of the ego safety values and the social safety values to a respective truth value; applying fuzzy inference on the truth values to produce a goal fuzzy set; and defuzzifying the goal fuzzy set to select the next behavior action for the ego vehicle.
20. The system of claim 11 further comprising a comfort prediction module configured to, for each possible behavior action, predict, based on the current state, an ego comfort value corresponding to an acceleration of the ego vehicle, and the safety controller selects the vehicle action also based on the ego comfort values predicted for each possible behavior action.
</claims>
</document>
