<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LENCHNER, JONATHAN
MUKHERJEE, MAHARAJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69406558
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION MESSAGE COACHING SERVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments for implementing an electronic communication coaching service by a processor are disclosed. An appropriateness of a communication may be interpreted prior to a user sending the communication to another party according a plurality of identified contextual factors. The user may be alerted to a possible negative impact of sending the communication to the another party if the interpreted appropriateness is less than a predetermined threshold. A delay in sending the communication may be suggested for a selected period of time to implement one or more suggestive corrective actions to the communication.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for implementing an electronic communication coaching service by a processor, comprising: interpreting an appropriateness of a communication prior to a user sending the communication to another party according to a plurality of identified contextual factors; alerting the user to a possible negative impact of sending the communication to the another party if the interpreted appropriateness is less than a predetermined threshold; and suggesting a delay in sending the communication for a selected period of time to implement one or more suggestive corrective actions to the communication.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein cognitively interpreting the appropriateness of the communications based on the plurality of identified contextual factors further includes interpreting a tone, a sentiment, emotion, keywords, phrases, text font, punctuation ones of the contextual factors in view of the communications.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein interpreting the appropriateness of the communications based on the plurality of identified contextual factors further includes determining a sensitively level, relationship status, communication history, or a combination thereof between the user and the another party.
4. The method of claim 1, further including identifying one or more keywords, phrases, text formats, text fonts, or a combination thereof having the possible negative impact upon the another party.
5. The method of claim 1, further including applying the one or more suggestive corrective actions to the communication.
6. The method of claim 1, further including restricting delivery of the communication upon determining the interpreted appropriateness is less than the predetermined threshold.
7. The method of claim 1, further including initializing a machine learning mechanism using feedback information to learn the plurality of identified contextual factors and impact of the communication upon the another party.
8. A system for implementing an electronic communication coaching service, comprising: one or more computers with executable instructions that when executed cause the system to: interpreting an appropriateness of a communication prior to a user sending the communication to another party according a plurality of identified contextual factors; alerting the user to a possible negative impact of sending the communication to the another party if the interpreted appropriateness is less than a predetermined threshold; and suggesting a delay in sending the communication for a selected period of time to implement one or more suggestive corrective actions to the communication.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein, pursuant to interpreting the appropriateness of the communications based on the plurality of identified contextual factors, the executable instructions further interpret a tone, a sentiment, an emotional state, keywords, phrases, text font, punctuation ones of the contextual factors in view of the communication.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein, pursuant to interpreting the appropriateness of the communications based on the plurality of identified contextual factors, the executable instructions further determine a sensitively level, relationship status, communication history, or a combination thereof between the user and the another party.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further identify one or more keywords, phrases, text formats, text fonts, or a combination thereof having the possible negative impact upon the another party.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further apply the one or more suggestive corrective actions to the communication.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further restrict delivery of the communication upon determining the interpreted appropriateness is less than the predetermined threshold.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further initialize a machine learning mechanism using feedback information to learn the plurality of identified contextual factors and impact of the communication upon the another party.
15. A computer program product for implementing an electronic communication coaching service by a processor, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code portions stored therein, the computer-readable program code portions comprising: an executable portion that interprets an appropriateness of a communication prior to a user sending the communication to another party according a plurality of identified contextual factors; an executable portion that alerts the user to a possible negative impact of sending the communication to the another party if an interpreted appropriateness is less than a predetermined threshold; and an executable portion that suggests a delay in sending the communication message for a selected period of time to implement one or more suggestive corrective actions to the communication.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that, pursuant to interpreting the appropriateness of the communications based on the plurality of identified contextual factors, interprets a tone, a sentiment, an emotional state, keywords, phrases, text font, punctuation ones of the contextual factors in view of the communication.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that, pursuant to interpreting the appropriateness of the communications based on the plurality of identified contextual factors, determines a sensitively level, relationship status, communication history, or a combination thereof between the user and the another party.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that: identifies one or more keywords, phrases, text formats, text fonts, or a combination thereof having the possible negative impact upon the another party; and applying the one or more suggestive corrective actions to the communication.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that restricts delivery of the communication upon determining the interpreted appropriateness is less than the predetermined threshold.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that initializing a machine learning mechanism using feedback information to learn the plurality of identified contextual factors and impact of the communication upon the another party.
</claims>
</document>
