<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NTT (NIPPON TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
KASHINO, KUNIO
KANEKO, TAKUHIRO
HIRAMATSU, KAORU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64016106
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SIGNAL RETRIEVAL APPARATUS, METHOD, AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A signal output unit outputs an acquired signal. A signal accumulation unit accumulates signals. A signal attribute value display unit displays a value of an attribute related to an element constituting a target represented by the acquired signal or a signal generation source in a state in which an instruction for changing the value of the attribute is able to be received. A changed attribute value acquisition unit acquires a changed value of the attribute when the instruction for changing the value of the attribute is received. A signal retrieval unit retrieves, from the signals accumulated in the signal accumulation unit, a signal similar to a changed signal when the value of the attribute has been changed on the basis of the changed value of the attribute acquired by the changed attribute value acquisition unit.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A signal retrieval apparatus comprising: a signal outputter that outputs an acquired signal; a signal accumulator unit that accumulates signals; a signal attribute value displayer that displays a value of an attribute related to an element constituting a target represented by the acquired signal or a signal generation source in a state in which an instruction for changing the value of the attribute is able to be received; a changed attribute value acquirer that acquires a changed value of the attribute when the instruction for changing the value of the attribute is received; and a signal retriever that retrieves, from the signals accumulated in the signal accumulator, a signal similar to a changed signal when the value of the attribute has been changed on the basis of the changed value of the attribute acquired by the changed attribute value acquirer.
2. The signal retrieval apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each of the acquired signal, the signals accumulated in the signal accumulator, the changed signal, and the signal similar to the changed signal is an image, and the attribute is an attribute related to an element constituting a subject represented by the image.
3. The signal retrieval apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the signal attribute value displayer displays the value of the attribute by means of a controller indicating the value of the attribute as the state in which the instruction for changing the value of the attribute is able to be received.
4. A signal retrieval apparatus comprising: a signal outputter that outputs an acquired signal; a signal accumulator that accumulates signals; a variable extractor that extracts, from the acquired signal, a value of an attribute related to an element constituting a target represented by the acquired signal or a signal generation source; a signal attribute value displayer that displays the value of the attribute in a state in which an instruction for changing the value of the attribute of the acquired signal is able to be received; a changed attribute value acquirer that acquires a changed value of the attribute when the instruction for changing the value of the attribute is received; and a signal retriever that retrieves, from the signals accumulated in the signal accumulator, a signal similar to a changed signal when the value of the attribute has been changed on the basis of the changed value of the attribute, on the basis of the changed value of the attribute and a value of an attribute extracted with respect to each of the signals accumulated in the signal accumulator.
5. The signal retrieval apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the signal retriever retrieves the signal similar to the changed signal from the signals accumulated in the signal accumulator by comparing the changed value of the attribute with the value of the attribute extracted with respect to each of the signals accumulated in the signal accumulator.
6. The signal retrieval apparatus according to claim 4 or 5, wherein the variable extractor extracts latent variables from the acquired signal using a pre-learned neural network, the latent variables including a latent variable representing the attribute, the changed attribute value acquirer acquires a latent variable representing a changed attribute when the instruction for changing the value of the attribute is received, and the signal retriever retrieves, from the signals accumulated in the signal accumulator, a signal similar to a changed signal when the value of the attribute has been changed on the basis of the latent variable representing the changed attribute by comparing the latent variable representing the changed attribute with a latent variable representing the attribute extracted with respect to each of the signals accumulated in the signal accumulator.
7. A program for causing a computer to function as the signal retrieval apparatus according to claim 1.
8. A signal retrieval method comprising: outputting, by a signal outputter, an acquired signal; displaying, by a signal attribute value displayer, a value of an attribute related to an element constituting a target represented by the acquired signal or a signal generation source in a state in which an instruction for changing the value of the attribute is able to be received; acquiring, by a changed attribute value acquirer, a changed value of the attribute when the instruction for changing the value of the attribute is received; and retrieving, by a signal retriever, from a signal accumulator that accumulates signals, a signal similar to a changed signal when the value of the attribute has been changed on the basis of the changed value of the attribute acquired by the changed attribute value acquirer.
9. A signal retrieval method comprising: outputting, by a signal outputter, an acquired signal; extracting, by a variable extractor, from the acquired signal, a value of an attribute related to an element constituting a target represented by the acquired signal or a signal generation source; displaying, by a signal attribute value displayer, the value of the attribute in a state in which an instruction for changing the value of the attribute of the acquired signal is able to be received; acquiring, by a changed attribute value acquirer, a changed value of the attribute when the instruction for changing the value of the attribute is received; and retrieving, by a signal retriever, from signals accumulated in a signal accumulator, a signal similar to a changed signal when the value of the attribute has been changed on the basis of the changed value of the attribute, on the basis of the changed value of the attribute and a value of an attribute extracted with respect to each of the signals accumulated in the signal accumulator.
10. The signal retrieval apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the variable extractor extracts, from the acquired signal, a plurality of latent variables that includes a first latent variable representing identity of the signal and a second latent variable that is independent of the first latent variable and that is a latent variable representing each attribute of the signal or a latent variable based on the latent variable, the signal attribute value displayer outputs the second latent variable, the changed attribute value acquirer acquires a third latent variable representing each changed attribute by converting the second latent variable, and the signal retriever retrieves a signal that is similar to a signal obtained by changing the signal on the basis of the third latent variable from the signals accumulated in the signal accumulator.
11. The signal retrieval apparatus according to claim 10, further comprising a changer that changes a value of the second latent variable representing an attribute of a change target by replacing the value of the latent variable representing the attribute of the change target among second latent variables representing each attribute extracted by the variable extractor with the changed value acquired by the changed attribute value acquirer, the signal accumulator stores first latent variables and second latent variables related to the accumulated signals in addition to the accumulated signals, and the signal retriever retrieves the signal corresponding to a latent variable that is most similar to the third latent variable among the second latent variables accumulated in the signal accumulator by comparing the third latent variable with the second latent variables related to the accumulated signals.
12. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing the program according to claim 7.
13. A program for causing a computer to function as the signal retrieval apparatus according to claim 4.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing the program according to claim 13.
</claims>
</document>
