<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R33/34,G01R33/36,G01R33/38,G01R33/383,G01R33/385,G01R33/44,G01R33/565
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HYPERFINE RESEARCH
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROTHBERG, JONATHAN, M.
REARICK, TODD
MILESKI, WILLIAM J.
POOLE, MICHAEL, STEPHEN
JORDAN, JEREMY CHRISTOPHER
MCNULTY, CHRISTOPHER THOMAS
DYVORNE, HADRIEN, A.
KATZE, JR., ALAN B.
SACOLICK, LAURA
HUGON, CEDRIC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63037565
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PORTABLE MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING METHODS AND APPARATUS
</title>

<abstract>
According to some aspects, a portable magnetic resonance imaging system is provided, comprising a magnetics system having a plurality of magnetics components configured to produce magnetic fields for performing magnetic resonance imaging. The magnetics system comprises a permanent B0 magnet configured to produce a B0 field for the magnetic resonance imaging system, and a plurality of gradient coils configured to, when operated, generate magnetic fields to provide spatial encoding of emitted magnetic resonance signals, a power system comprising one or more power components configured to provide power to the magnetics system to operate the magnetic resonance imaging system to perform image acquisition, and a base that supports the magnetics system and houses the power system, the base comprising at least one conveyance mechanism allowing the portable magnetic resonance imaging system to be transported to different locations. According to some aspects, the base has a maximum horizontal dimension of less than or equal to approximately 50 inches. According to some aspects, the portable magnetic resonance imaging system weighs less than 1,500 pounds. According to some aspects, the portable magnetic resonance imaging system has a 5-Gauss line that has a maximum dimension of less than or equal to five feet.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A portable magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) system, comprising: a magnetics system having a plurality of magnetics components configured to produce magnetic fields for performing magnetic resonance imaging; a power system comprising one or more power components configured to provide power to the magnetics system to operate the portable MRI system to perform image acquisition; and a base that supports the magnetics system and houses the power system, the base comprising at least one motorized wheel configured to transport the portable MRI system to different locations.
2. The portable magnetic resonance imaging system of claim 1, further comprising a motor controller configured to engage the at least one motorized wheel responsive to detection of force being applied to the portable MRI system.
3. The portable magnetic resonance imaging system of claim 1, wherein the motor controller is configured to engage the at least one motorized wheel responsive to detection of input provided by personnel via a controller.
4. The portable magnetic resonance imaging system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of castors coupled to the base and configured to allow the portable MRI system to be rotated about the at least one motorized wheel.
5. The portable magnetic resonance imaging system of claim 1, wherein the magnetics system comprises: a permanent B0 magnet configured to produce a B0 field; a plurality of gradient coils configured to, when operated, generate magnetic fields to provide spatial encoding of emitted magnetic resonance signals; and at least one radio frequency coil configured to, when operated, transmit radio frequency signals to a field of view of the portable MRI system and to detect magnetic resonance signals emitted from the field of view.
6. The portable magnetic resonance imaging system of claim 5, wherein the permanent B0 magnet is configured to produce a B0 field having a field strength less than 0.1 Tesla and greater than 50 milliTesla (mT).
7. The portable magnetic resonance imaging system of claim 1, further comprising a noise reduction system that facilitates operation of the portable MRI system outside of an electromagnetically shielded room, the noise reduction system comprising at least one radio frequency coil positioned outside of an imaging region of the portable MRI system.
8. The portable magnetic resonance imaging system of claim 1, wherein the base houses at least one gradient power amplifier configured to provide power to operate the plurality of gradient coils.
9. The portable magnetic resonance imaging system of claim 1, wherein the portable MRI system weighs less than 1,500 pounds.
10. A method of operating a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) system, the MRI system comprising a plurality of magnetics components, a base housing a power system configured to provide power to at least some of the plurality of magnetics components, and at least one motorized wheel coupled to the base, the method comprising: transporting the MRI system from one location to another location using the at least one motorized wheel at least in part by engaging the at least one motorized wheel responsive to detection of force being applied to the MRI system.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein engaging comprises actuating the at least one motorized wheel responsive to the detection of force.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising rotating the MRI system about the at least one motorized wheel on a plurality of castors coupled to the base.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of magnetics components comprises: a permanent B0 magnet; a plurality of gradient coils configured to, when operated, generate magnetic fields to provide spatial encoding of emitted magnetic resonance signals; and at least one radio frequency coil configured to, when operated, transmit radio frequency signals to a field of view of the portable MRI system and to detect magnetic resonance signals emitted from the field of view.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the portable MRI system further comprises a housing for the permanent B0 magnet, and the method further comprises positioning a patient on a surface of the housing.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising imaging a patient using the MRI system outside of an electromagnetically shielded room.
16. A method of operating a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) system, the MRI system comprising a plurality of magnetics components, a base housing a power system configured to provide power to at least some of the plurality of magnetics components, and a conveyance mechanism coupled to the base, the method comprising: transporting the MRI system from one location to another location using the conveyance mechanism at least in part by engaging the conveyance mechanism responsive to detection of input provided via a controller.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein engaging the conveyance mechanism comprises engaging at least one motorized wheel coupled to the base.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising rotating the MRI system about the conveyance mechanism on a plurality of castors coupled to the base.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the plurality of magnetics components comprises: a permanent B0 magnet; a plurality of gradient coils configured to, when operated, generate magnetic fields to provide spatial encoding of emitted magnetic resonance signals; and at least one radio frequency coil configured to, when operated, transmit radio frequency signals to a field of view of the portable MRI system and to detect magnetic resonance signals emitted from the field of view.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the controller comprises a joystick.
</claims>
</document>
