<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06T17/00,G06T17/05
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DISNEY ENTERPRISES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAPMAN, STEVEN M.
KOSAKURA, STEVEN, T.
PATEL, MEHUL A.
POPP, JOSEPH M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69229328
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Optimizing images for three-dimensional model construction
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and computer readable media related to generating a three-dimensional model of a target object. A first source image, of a plurality of source images of a target object, is analyzed to identify a first region of the first image, the first region having attributes meeting one or more pre-defined criteria. The first region is marked for exclusion from use in generating a three-dimensional model of the target object. The three-dimensional model of the target object is generated using the plurality of source images. The marked first region is excluded in the generation of the three-dimensional model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of generating a three-dimensional model of a target object, comprising: analyzing a first source image, of a plurality of source images of a target object, to identify a first region of the first image, the first region having attributes meeting one or more pre-defined criteria; marking the first region for exclusion from use in generating a three-dimensional model of the target object; and generating the three-dimensional model of the target object using the plurality of source images, wherein the marked first region is excluded in the generation of the three-dimensional model.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more pre-defined criteria comprise a rule associated with excluding image regions from use in generating the three-dimensional model, the method further comprising: analyzing the first source image using the rule to identify the first region for exclusion.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the rule relates to the color of a first pixel in the first region and the color of one or more pixels surrounding the first pixel.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the rule relates to comparing pixels in the first source image with pixels in a second source image, of the plurality of source images.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the three-dimensional model of the target object using the plurality of source images comprises: generating a three-dimensional point cloud for the target object; and applying one or more textures to the three-dimensional point cloud, wherein the first region is excluded from generating the three-dimensional point cloud.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein the first region is used when applying the one or more textures to the three-dimensional point cloud.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein marking the first region for exclusion from use in generating a three-dimensional model of the target object comprises: identifying a lookup table associated with the first source image; and modifying a cell in the lookup table corresponding to the first region to signify that the first region is marked for exclusion.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein generating the three-dimensional model of the target object using the plurality of source images comprises analyzing the identified lookup table.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the lookup table comprises a two dimensional array with dimensions related to the size of the first source image.
10. A computer program product for generating a three-dimensional model of a target object, the computer program product comprising: a computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code embodied therewith, wherein the code, when executed by a processor, performs an operation, the operation comprising: analyzing a first source image, of a plurality of source images of a target object, to identify a first region of the first image, the first region having attributes meeting one or more pre-defined criteria; marking the first region for exclusion from use in generating a three-dimensional model of the target object; and generating the three-dimensional model of the target object using the plurality of source images, wherein the marked first region is excluded in the generation of the three-dimensional model.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the one or more pre-defined criteria comprise a rule associated with excluding image regions from use in generating the three-dimensional model, the operation further comprising: analyzing the first source image using the rule to identify the first region for exclusion.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the rule relates to the color of a first pixel in the first region and the color of one or more pixels surrounding the first pixel.
13. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the rule relates to comparing pixels in the first source image with pixels in a second source image, of the plurality of source images
14. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein generating the three-dimensional model of the target object using the plurality of source images comprises: generating a three-dimensional point cloud for the target object; and applying one or more textures to the three-dimensional point cloud, wherein the first region is excluded from generating the three-dimensional point cloud and wherein the first region is used when applying the one or more textures to the three-dimensional point cloud.
15. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein marking the first region for exclusion from use in generating a three-dimensional model of the target object comprises: identifying a lookup table associated with the first source image; and modifying a cell in the lookup table corresponding to the first region to signify that the first region is marked for exclusion, wherein generating the three-dimensional model of the target object using the plurality of source images comprises analyzing the identified lookup table.
16. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory storing a program, which, when executed on the processor, performs an operation, the operation comprising: analyzing a first source image, of a plurality of source images of a target object, to identify a first region of the first image, the first region having attributes meeting one or more pre-defined criteria; marking the first region for exclusion from use in generating a three-dimensional model of the target object; and generating the three-dimensional model of the target object using the plurality of source images, wherein the marked first region is excluded in the generation of the three-dimensional model.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the one or more pre-defined criteria comprise a rule associated with excluding image regions from use in generating the three-dimensional model, the operation further comprising: analyzing the first source image using the rule to identify the first region for exclusion.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the rule relates to the color of a first pixel in the first region and the color of one or more pixels surrounding the first pixel.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein generating the three-dimensional model of the target object using the plurality of source images comprises: generating a three-dimensional point cloud for the target object; and applying one or more textures to the three-dimensional point cloud, wherein the first region is excluded from generating the three-dimensional point cloud and wherein the first region is used when applying the one or more textures to the three-dimensional point cloud.
20. The system of claim 16, wherein marking the first region for exclusion from use in generating a three-dimensional model of the target object comprises: identifying a lookup table associated with the first source image; and modifying a cell in the lookup table corresponding to the first region to signify that the first region is marked for exclusion, wherein generating the three-dimensional model of the target object using the plurality of source images comprises analyzing the identified lookup table
</claims>
</document>
