<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01J3/46,G01J3/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HEWLETT-PACKARD DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOROVIC, JAN
MOROVIC, PETER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68060572
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EMULATING A SPECTRAL MEASUREMENT DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Certain examples relate to emulating a spectral measurement device in a color measurement apparatus. In these examples, a primary spectral measurement device measures a first spectral characteristic of a rendered color output. A predictive model, parametrized by parameter values, is applied to the measurement from the primary spectral measurement device to determine a predicted measurement of a second spectral characteristic of the rendered color output which would be measured by an ancillary spectral measurement device. Parameter values are generated by training the predictive model with data from the primary spectral measurement device and the ancillary spectral measurement device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for color measurement comprising: a primary spectral measurement device to measure a first spectral characteristic of a rendered color output and to output an array of values corresponding to a range of wavelengths; an emulator for an ancillary spectral measurement device comprising: a first storage medium storing computer program code to implement a predictive model, the predictive model mapping an input array of values to an output array of values, a second storage medium storing parameter values for the predictive model, the parameter values being generated by training the predictive model on a set of training samples, each training sample relating to a measurement of a rendered color output, each training sample comprising data indicative of a measurement using the primary spectral measurement device and data indicative of a measurement using the ancillary spectral measurement device, the ancillary spectral measurement device measuring a second spectral characteristic that differs from the first spectral characteristic; and a processor to execute the computer program code of the first storage medium to apply the predictive model as parameterized with the parameter values from the second storage medium to an output of the primary spectral measurement device to generate a predicted output of the ancillary spectral measurement device.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first and second spectral characteristics comprise measured quantities over the range of wavelengths that are dependent on respective differing detectors of the primary and ancillary spectral measurement devices.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the primary spectral measurement device is one of a spectrophotometer and a spectroradiometer and the ancillary spectral measurement device is one of a spectrophotometer and a spectroradiometer.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second spectral characteristic comprises spectral data representative of a measurement of at least one of the following: fluorescence; a spectral response over a range of wavelengths that differs from the first spectral characteristic; a spectral response with a wavelength interval that differs from the first spectral characteristic; and a spectral response measured with a spectral measurement technique that differs from the first spectral characteristic.
5. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: load parameter values for a predictive model which maps a first array of spectral data to a second array of spectral data, the parameter values resulting from training the predictive model on a set of training samples, each training sample relating to a measurement of a rendered color output, each training sample comprising data indicative of a measurement using a primary spectral measurement device and data indicative of a measurement using an ancillary spectral measurement device, the ancillary spectral measurement device measuring a spectral characteristic that differs from the first spectral characteristic; receive an array of spectral data from a primary spectral measurement device, the array of spectral data relating to a measurement of a rendered color output by the primary spectral measurement device; and emulate the ancillary spectral measurement device by applying the predictive model with the loaded parameter values to the received array of spectral data to output a predicted array of spectral data for the ancillary spectral measurement device.
6. The medium of claim 5, storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to calibrate a color rendering engine based on the predicted array of spectral data.
7. The medium of claim 5, storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to obtain target prediction parameters, wherein the parameter values that are loaded depends on the target prediction parameters.
8. The medium of claim 5, storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to obtain target prediction parameters, the target prediction parameters being combined with the array of spectral data to condition the predictive model.
9. The medium of claim 7, wherein the target prediction parameters comprise data indicative of operating parameters for a color rendering device that is used to generate the rendered color output.
10. The medium of claim 5, storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: obtain data indicative of a first spectral characteristic for a set of color test patches measured using a primary spectral measurement device; obtain data indicative of a second spectral characteristic for the set of color test patches measured using an ancillary spectral measurement device; generate a set of training samples by pairing measurements of the first and second spectral characteristic for the color test patches within the obtained data; train the predictive model using the set of training samples, data indicative of a measurement of the first spectral characteristic being used as an input for the predictive model and data indicative of a measurement of the second spectral characteristic being used as a ground truth output for the predictive model; and output data indicative of the parameter values for the predictive model.
11. A method comprising; obtaining data indicative of a first spectral characteristic for a set of color test patches measured using a primary spectral measurement device, the color test patches having been rendered on a color rendering device; obtaining data indicative of a second spectral characteristic for the set of color test patches measured using an ancillary spectral measurement device, the ancillary spectral measurement device performing a different spectroscopic measurement to the primary spectral measurement device; generating a set of training samples by pairing measurements of the first and second spectral characteristic for the color test patches within the obtained data; training a predictive model using the set of training samples, data indicative of a measurement of the first spectral characteristic being used as an input for the predictive model and data indicative of a measurement of the second spectral characteristic being used as a ground truth output for the predictive model; and outputting data indicative of trained parameter values for the predictive model, wherein a predictive model parameterized with the trained parameter values is usable to emulate an output of the ancillary spectral measurement device using data from the primary spectral measurement device.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein post-processing is applied to the set of color test patches before the second spectral characteristic is measured using the ancillary spectral measurement device.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the predictive model is a polynomial regression model.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the data indicative of a second spectral characteristic comprises spectral data representative of a measurement of at least one of: fluorescence; a spectral response over a range of wavelengths that differs from the first spectral characteristic; a spectral response with a wavelength interval that differs from the first spectral characteristic; and a spectral response measured with a spectral measurement technique that differs from the first spectral characteristic.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the color test patches are measured using the ancillary spectral measurement device under a different illuminant than the measurement using the primary spectral measurement device.
</claims>
</document>
