<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KANG, JIYOUNG
KIM, HEEJIN
LEE, YUNSU
LEE, HYONSOK
HWANG, TAEHO
LEE, JAEHUN
KIM, SOOHYUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70327038
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD OF INTEGRATING DATABASES BASED ON KNOWLEDGE GRAPH
</title>

<abstract>
An artificial intelligence (AI) system that utilizes a machine learning algorithm, such as deep learning, etc. and an application of the AI system is provided. A method, performed by a server, of integrating and managing a plurality of databases (DBs) includes obtaining a plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs generated from the plurality of DBs having different structures from one another, inputting the plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs into a learning model related to DB for determining a correlation between data in the plurality of DBs, and obtaining a virtual integrated knowledge graph output from the learning model related to DB and including information about a correlation extracted from the plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, performed by a server, of integrating and managing a plurality of databases (DBs), the method comprising: obtaining a plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs generated from the plurality of DBs having different structures from one another; inputting the plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs into a learning model related to DB for determining a correlation between data in the plurality of DBs; and obtaining a virtual integrated knowledge graph output from the learning model related to DB and comprising information about a correlation extracted from the plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the learning model related to DB comprises an artificial intelligence algorithm that is a learning model trained by using at least one of machine learning, neural network, gene, deep learning, or a classification algorithm.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs comprises: classes corresponding to data fields constituting the plurality of DBs; and instances corresponding to data values included in the plurality of DBs.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the obtaining of the virtual integrated knowledge graph further comprises: obtaining a first integrated knowledge graph by inputting the plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs into a first learning model for determining a correlation between the classes; and obtaining a second integrated knowledge graph by inputting the plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs and the first integrated knowledge graph into a second learning model for determining a correlation between the instances.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first integrated knowledge graph comprises information about a correlation between a first class corresponding to a data field constituting a first DB among the plurality of DBs and a second class corresponding to a data field constituting a second DB among the plurality of DBs, and wherein the second integrated knowledge graph comprises information about a correlation between instances belonging to the first class and instances belonging to the second class.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the obtaining of the virtual integrated knowledge graph further comprises obtaining a mapping rule between the first class, the second class, the instances belonging to the first class, and the instances belonging to the second class.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein the correlation between the classes is determined based on types of the classes, and wherein the types of the classes are identified based on attributes of the classes or a statistical distribution of instance values belonging to the classes.
8. The method of claim 3, wherein the obtaining of the virtual integrated knowledge graph further comprises: determining, by using the learning model related to DB, a plurality of classes determined to be in correlation with one another among the classes or a plurality of instances determined to be in correlation with one another among the instances as correlation candidates; receiving a feedback input of a user with respect to the correlation candidates; and updating the learning model related to DB based on the feedback input received from the user with respect to the correlation candidates.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising, when the plurality of DBs are updated, obtaining an updated integrated knowledge graph by inputting the virtual integrated knowledge graph and updated plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs generated from the updated plurality of DBs into the learning model related to DB.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing the virtual integrated knowledge graph.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: responding to a query of a user with respect to the plurality of DBs based on the virtual integrated knowledge graph.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying classes or instances that are in same relationship with one another but conflict with one another in a value or a format, from among classes and instances included in the virtual integrated knowledge graph; and deriving a standardization candidate for standardizing data fields and data values corresponding to the classes or instances that conflict with one another, based on the virtual integrated knowledge graph.
13. A server for integrating and managing a plurality of databases (DBs) based on a knowledge graph, the server comprising: a memory storing one or more instructions; and at least one processor configured to execute the one or more instructions to: obtain a plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs generated from the plurality of DBs having different structures from one another, input the plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs into a learning model related to DB for determining a correlation between data in the plurality of DBs, and obtain a virtual integrated knowledge graph output from the learning model related to DB and comprising information about a correlation extracted from the plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs.
14. The server of claim 13, wherein the learning model related to DB comprises an artificial intelligence algorithm that is a learning model trained by using at least one of machine learning, neural network, gene, deep learning, or a classification algorithm.
15. The server of claim 13, wherein the plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs comprises: classes corresponding to data fields constituting the plurality of DBs; and instances corresponding to data values included in the plurality of DBs.
16. The server of claim 15, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: obtain a first integrated knowledge graph by inputting the plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs into a first learning model for determining a correlation between the classes, and obtain a second integrated knowledge graph by inputting the plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs and the first integrated knowledge graph into a second learning model for determining a correlation between the instances.
17. The server of claim 16, wherein the first integrated knowledge graph comprises information about a correlation between a first class corresponding to a data field constituting a first DB among the plurality of DBs and a second class corresponding to a data field constituting a second DB among the plurality of DBs, and wherein the second integrated knowledge graph comprises information about a correlation between instances belonging to the first class and instances belonging to the second class.
18. The server of claim 15, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine, by using the learning model related to DB, a plurality of classes determined to be correlated with one another among the classes or a plurality of instances determined to be correlated with one another among the instances as correlation candidates, receive a feedback input of a user for the correlation candidates, and train the learning model related to DB based on the feedback input of the user for the correlation candidates.
19. The server of claim 13, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to, when the plurality of DBs are updated, obtain an updated integrated knowledge graph by inputting the virtual integrated knowledge graph and an updated plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs generated from the updated plurality of DBs into the learning model related to DB.
20. At least one non-transitory computer program product comprising a computer readable recording medium comprising a program to: obtain a plurality of database (DB) knowledge graphs generated from a plurality of DBs having different structures from one another; input the plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs into a learning model related to DB for determining a correlation between data in the plurality of DBs; and obtain a virtual integrated knowledge graph output from the learning model related to DB and comprising information about a correlation extracted from the plurality of knowledge graphs related to DBs.
</claims>
</document>
