<document>

<filing_date>
2020-10-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04R1/40,H04R3/00,H04R5/033,H04R5/04,H04S7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KHALEGHIMEYBODI, MORTEZA
Faundez Hoffmann, Pablo Francisco
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70482945
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REMOTE INFERENCE OF SOUND FREQUENCIES FOR DETERMINATION OF HEAD-RELATED TRANSFER FUNCTIONS FOR A USER OF A HEADSET
</title>

<abstract>
A headset comprises a frame and an audio system. The audio system includes a microphone assembly positioned on the frame in a detection region, the detection region external to an ear of a user wearing the headset, and within a threshold distance from an ear canal of the ear, the microphone assembly configured to detect an audio signal emitted from an audio source, wherein the audio signal detected at the detection region is within a threshold degree of similarity of a sound pressure wave at the ear canal of the user, and an audio controller configured to determine a set of head-related transfer functions (HRTFs) based in part on the detected audio signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A audio system comprising: a microphone assembly positioned external to an ear of a user and within a threshold distance from an ear canal of the ear, the microphone assembly configured to detect an audio signal caused by sound emitted from an audio source in a local area, wherein the audio signal includes a first portion in a first frequency band and a second portion in a second frequency band, wherein the first frequency band is lower than the second frequency band and the first portion of the audio signal is within a threshold degree of similarity of the first frequency band of a sound pressure wave at the ear canal of the user; and an audio controller configured to: infer sound pressure for the first frequency band at an entrance of the ear canal as being the sound pressure in the first frequency band described by the first portion of the audio signal, and determine a set of head-related transfer functions (HRTFs) based in part on the inferred sound pressure for the first frequency band.
2. The audio system of claim 1, wherein the microphone assembly comprises a plurality of microphones.
3. The audio system of claim 2, wherein at least one microphone of the plurality of microphones is located at a position greater than the threshold distance away from the ear canal of the user.
4. The audio system of claim 1, wherein the threshold distance is at most 3 inches.
5. The audio system of claim 1, further comprising a speaker assembly configured to present audio content to the user, and wherein the audio source is the speaker assembly.
6. The audio system of claim 5, wherein the speaker assembly presents audio content using cartilage conduction to the user.
7. The audio system of claim 1, wherein the audio source is external to and separate from the audio system and the audio signal includes ambient sounds in the local area.
8. The audio system of claim 1, wherein frequencies of the audio signal are less than or equal to 2 kHz.
9. The audio system of claim 1, wherein the audio controller is further configured to: estimate a direction of arrival (DoA) of a detected sound relative to a position of the microphone assembly within the local area; and update, based on the DoA estimation, an HRTF of the set of HRTFs for frequencies above 2 kHz.
10. A method comprising: detecting, via a microphone assembly positioned external to an ear of a user and within a threshold distance from an ear canal of the ear, an audio signal caused by sound emitted from an audio source in a local area, wherein the audio signal includes a first portion in a first frequency band and a second portion in a second frequency band, wherein the first frequency band is lower than the second frequency band and the first portion of the audio signal is within a threshold degree of similarity of the first frequency band of a sound pressure wave at the ear canal of the user; inferring, via an audio controller, sound pressure for the first frequency band at an entrance of the ear canal as being the sound pressure in the first frequency band described by the first portion of the audio signal; and determining, via the audio controller, a set of head-related transfer functions (HRTFs) based in part on the inferred sound pressure for the first frequency band.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: presenting, via a speaker assembly, audio content to the user, and wherein the audio source is the speaker assembly.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the speaker assembly presents audio content using cartilage conduction to the user.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the audio signal includes ambient sounds in the local area.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein frequencies of the audio signal are less than or equal to 2 kHz.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising: estimating, via the audio controller, a direction of arrival (DoA) of a detected sound relative to a position of the microphone assembly within the local area; and updating, via the audio controller, based on the DoA estimation, an HRTF of the set of HRTFs for frequencies above 2 kHz.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: detecting, via a microphone assembly positioned external to an ear of a user and within a threshold distance from an ear canal of the ear, an audio signal caused by sound emitted from an audio source in a local area, wherein the audio signal includes a first portion in a first frequency band and a second portion in a second frequency band, wherein the first frequency band is lower than the second frequency band and the first portion of the audio signal is within a threshold degree of similarity of the first frequency band of a sound pressure wave at the ear canal of the user; inferring sound pressure for the first frequency band at an entrance of the ear canal as being the sound pressure in the first frequency band described by the first portion of the audio signal; and determining a set of head-related transfer functions (HRTFs) based in part on the inferred sound pressure for the first frequency band.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, the instructions further cause the one or more processors to perform operations further comprising: presenting, via a speaker assembly, audio content to the user, and wherein the audio source is the speaker assembly.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the speaker assembly presents audio content using cartilage conduction to the user.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein frequencies of the audio signal are less than or equal to 2 kHz.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, the instructions further cause the one or more processors to perform operations further comprising: estimating a direction of arrival (DoA) of a detected sound relative to a position of the microphone assembly within the local area; and updating based on the DoA estimation, an HRTF of the set of HRTFs for frequencies above 2 kHz.
</claims>
</document>
