<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B17/02,G05B19/418
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FISHER-ROSEMOUNT SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BELL, NOEL HOWARD
ENVER, ALPER TURHAN
KIDD, JOSHUA BRIAN
MUSTON, PAUL R.
NIXON MARK J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57610510
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Distributed Industrial Performance Monitoring and Analytics
</title>

<abstract>
Distributed industrial process monitoring and analytics systems and methods are provided for operation within a process plant. A plurality of distributed data engines (DDEs) may be embedded within the process plant to collect and store data generated by data sources, such as process controllers. Thus, the data may be stored in a distributed manner in the DDEs embedded throughout the process plant. The DDEs may be connected by a data analytics network to facilitate data transmission by subscription or query. The DDEs may be configured as a plurality of clusters, which may further include local and centralized clusters. The local clusters may obtain streaming data from data sources and stream selected data to a data consumer. The centralized cluster may register the local clusters, receive data therefrom, and perform data analytic functions on the received data. The analyzed data may be further sent to a data consumer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: advertising, by a cluster included in a data analytics network of a process control plant that is operating to control a process, a presence of the cluster; registering, by the cluster, a data source that responds to the advertising and that generates continuous data resulting from the control of the process in the process control plant; receiving, by the cluster, the continuous data generated by the data source; streaming, by the cluster via the data analytics network, at least some of the continuous data generated by the data source to a data consumer.
2. The method of claim 1, where the data consumer is bound to the data source.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the data analytics network is overlaid over all other process control communication networks utilized in the process plant to control the process.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein: the data source is a process control device that transmits the continuous data over a process control communication network to control the process; and receiving the continuous data generated by the process control device comprises receiving, via the data analytics network, a copy of at least some of the contents of the continuous data transmitted by the process control device over the process control communication network to control the process.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the continuous data generated by the data source comprises receiving data that has been generated and published to the cluster by the data source.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing, at the cluster, the continuous data generated by the data source; and caching, at the cluster, at least a portion of the continuous data generated by the data source.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising periodically historizing data stored at the cluster, including transmitting, via the data analytics network, the data stored at the cluster to an analytics data historian.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving, via the data analytics network from the data consumer, a query for the at least some of the continuous data generated by the data source, and wherein streaming the at least some of the continuous data generated by the data source to the data consumer is based on the query.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein streaming the at least some of the continuous data to the data consumer comprises streaming the at least some of the continuous data to a user interface.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein streaming the at least some of the continuous data to the data consumer comprises streaming, to a data analytics application, the at least some of the continuous data to be used as input into a data analytics function.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the cluster is a local cluster, and the method further comprises: detecting, by the local cluster, an advertisement generated by a regional or centralized cluster; registering, by the local cluster, the local cluster with the regional or centralized cluster; and streaming, by the local cluster via the data analytics network to the regional or centralized cluster, analytics data corresponding to the local cluster.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein streaming, to the regional or centralized cluster, the analytics data corresponding to the local cluster comprises publishing, to the regional or centralized cluster, the analytics data corresponding to the local cluster.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising performing, by the local cluster, one or more data analytics functions on at least a portion of the continuous data generated by the data source; and wherein streaming, to the regional or centralized cluster, the analytics data corresponding to the local cluster comprises streaming, to the regional or centralized cluster, results of the one or more data analytics functions performed on the at least the portion of the continuous data generated by the data source.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein performing the one or more data analytics functions on the at least the portion of the continuous data generated by the data source comprises performing the one or more data analytics functions on the at least a portion of the continuous data generated by the data source and on data generated by another data source registered with the local cluster.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the cluster comprises one or more of a plurality of distributed data engines (DDEs) embedded within the process plant and coupled to the data analytics network.
16. A method, comprising: advertising, by a centralized cluster included in a data analytics network, a presence of the centralized cluster; registering, by the centralized cluster, a local cluster that responds to the advertising and that is configured to store and stream continuous data that is generated as a result of controlling a process in a process control plant, wherein the local cluster is embedded in the process plant and communicatively coupled to one or more data sources that generate at least a portion of the continuous data while operating to control the process; receiving, by the centralized cluster from the local cluster, at least a portion of the streamed continuous data; performing one or more data analytics functions on the at least a portion of the streamed continuous data received from the local cluster; and streaming, via the data analytics network, an output of the one or more data analytics functions to a data consumer.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the data consumer is bound to the centralized cluster.
18. The method of claim 16, where the data analytics network is overlaid over all other process control communication networks utilized in the process plant to control the process.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the one or more data sources communicatively coupled to the local cluster include a process control device, and wherein the at least a portion of the streamed continuous data is received at the centralized cluster from the local cluster via the data analytics network and includes a copy of at least some of the contents of data transmitted by the process control device over a process control communication network to control the process.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein receiving the at least a portion of the streamed continuous data from the local cluster comprises receiving data that has been published to the centralized cluster by the local cluster.
21. The method of claim 16, further comprising storing, at the centralized cluster, the at least the portion of the streamed continuous data received from the local cluster and the output of the one or more data analytics functions.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising periodically historizing data stored at the centralized cluster, including transmitting, via the data analytics network, the data stored at the centralized cluster to an analytics data historian.
23. The method of claim 16, further comprising receiving, via the data analytics network from the data consumer, a query for the output of the one or more data analytics functions, and wherein the streaming of the output of the one or more data analytics functions is based on the query.
24. The method of claim 16, wherein the output of the one or more data analytics functions is a continuous output.
25. The method of claim 16, wherein streaming the output of the one or more data analytics functions to the data consumer comprises streaming the output of the one or more data analytics functions to a user interface.
26. The method of claim 16, wherein streaming the output of the one or more data analytics functions to the data consumer comprises streaming the output of the one or more data analytics functions to a data analytic application executing in the data analytics network.
27. The method of claim 16, wherein streaming the output of the one or more data analytics functions to the data consumer comprises streaming the output of the one or more data analytics functions to a subscriber.
28. The method of claim 16, further comprising registering one or more additional local clusters to the centralized cluster and receiving respective data from the one or more additional local clusters; and wherein performing the one or more data analytics functions on the at least a portion of the streamed continuous data received from the local cluster comprises performing the one or more data analytics functions on at least a portion of the streamed continuous data received from the local cluster and the respective data received from the one or more additional local clusters.
29. The method of claim 16, further comprising registering, by the centralized cluster, the centralized cluster with another centralized cluster; and wherein streaming the output of the one or more data analytics functions to the data consumer comprises streaming the output of the one or more data analytics functions to the other centralized cluster.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the other centralized cluster is hosted in a cloud computing environment.
31. The method of claim 16, wherein the centralized cluster is hosted in a cloud computing environment.
32. The method of claim 16, wherein the centralized cluster comprises one or more of a plurality of distributed data engines (DDEs) embedded within the process plant.
33. The method of claim 16, further comprising providing, by the centralized cluster, at least one of a location service or a data dictionary used to establish analytics data exchange between clusters.
34. The method of claim 16, further comprising providing, by the centralized cluster, an interface via which a user administrates a set of rules for replication and backup within the data analytics network.
</claims>
</document>
