<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GHOST LOCOMOTION INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAYES, JOHN
UHLIG, VOLKMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102469
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VALUE-BASED TRANSMISSION IN AN AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE
</title>

<abstract>
Value-based data transmission in an autonomous vehicle may include acquiring sensor data from a plurality of sensors of the autonomous vehicle, the sensor data comprising a plurality of portions; determining, for each portion of the sensor data, a value; determining, based on the values for the sensor data, an upload policy; and transmitting, based on the upload policy, one or more portions of the sensor data to a server.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for value-based data transmission in an autonomous vehicle, comprising: acquiring sensor data from a plurality of sensors of the autonomous vehicle, the sensor data comprising a plurality of portions; determining, for each portion of the sensor data, a value; determining, based on the values for the sensor data, an upload policy; and transmitting, based on the upload policy, one or more portions of the sensor data to a server.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the plurality of values comprises: generating an index for the sensor data; transmitting the index to the server; and receiving, based on the index, the values for the sensor data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the plurality of values comprises calculating, by the autonomous vehicle, the values for the sensor data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein transmitting the one or more portions of the sensor data to the server comprises: transmitting a first one or more portions over a first network connection; and transmitting a second one or more portions of the sensor data over a second network connection.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising determining the first network connection and the second network connection based on one or more of an available bandwidth, a transmission cost, or a time of day.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein transmitting the one or more portions of the sensor data to the server comprises determining, based on the upload policy, a transmission order of the one or more portions of the sensor data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein transmitting the one or more portions of the sensor data to the server comprises: excluding, based on the upload policy, a first one or more portions of the sensor data from transmission; and transmitting, based on the upload policy, a second one or more portions of the sensor data to the server.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising determining the first one or more portions of the sensor data excluded from transmission based on a transmission cost associated with the first one or more portions of the sensor data and one or more values corresponding to the first one or more portions of the sensor data.
9. An apparatus for value-based data transmission in an autonomous vehicle, the apparatus configured to perform steps comprising: acquiring sensor data from a plurality of sensors of the autonomous vehicle; determining, for each portion of the sensor data, a value; determining, based on the values for the sensor data, an upload policy; and transmitting, based on the upload policy, one or more portions of the sensor data to a server.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein determining the plurality of values comprises: generating an index for the sensor data; transmitting the index to the server; and receiving, based on the index, the values for the sensor data.
11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein transmitting the one or more portions of the sensor data to the server comprises: transmitting a first one or more portions over a first network connection; and transmitting a second one or more portions of the sensor data over a second network connection.
12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein transmitting the one or more portions of the sensor data to the server comprises determining, based on the upload policy, a transmission order of the one or more portions of the sensor data.
13. An autonomous vehicle for value-based data transmission in an autonomous vehicle, the autonomous vehicle comprising apparatus configured to perform steps comprising: acquiring sensor data from a plurality of sensors of the autonomous vehicle; determining, for each portion of the sensor data, a value; determining, based on the values for the sensor data, an upload policy; and transmitting, based on the upload policy, one or more portions of the sensor data to a server.
14. The autonomous vehicle of claim 13, wherein determining the plurality of values comprises: generating an index for the sensor data; transmitting the index to the server; and receiving, based on the index, the values for the sensor data.
15. The autonomous vehicle of claim 13, wherein determining the plurality of values comprises calculating, by the autonomous vehicle, the values for the sensor data
16. The autonomous vehicle of claim 13, wherein transmitting the one or more portions of the sensor data to the server comprises: transmitting a first one or more portions over a first network connection; and transmitting a second one or more portions of the sensor data over a second network connection.
17. The autonomous vehicle of claim 13, further comprising determining the first network connection and the second network connection based on one or more of an available bandwidth, a transmission cost, or a time of day.
18. The autonomous vehicle of claim 13, wherein transmitting the one or more portions of the sensor data to the server comprises determining, based on the upload policy, a transmission order of the one or more portions of the sensor data.
19. The autonomous vehicle of claim 13, wherein transmitting the one or more portions of the sensor data to the server comprises: excluding, based on the upload policy, a first one or more portions of the sensor data from transmission; and transmitting, based on the upload policy, a second one or more portions of the sensor data to the server.
20. A computer program product disposed upon a non-transitory computer readable medium, the computer program product comprising computer program instructions for value-based data transmission in an autonomous vehicle that, when executed, cause a computer system to carry out the steps of: acquiring sensor data from a plurality of sensors of the autonomous vehicle; determining, for each portion of the sensor data, a value; determining, based on the values for the sensor data, an upload policy; and transmitting, based on the upload policy, one or more portions of the sensor data to a server.
</claims>
</document>
