<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E02F9/26,E02F9/28,G08B21/18,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CATERPILLAR
</assignee>

<inventors>
PLOUZEK, JOHN MICHAEL
Finch, Nolan S.
Vlaminck, Mitchell Chase
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70476502
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GROUND ENGAGING TOOL MONITORING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
The electronic control unit includes a memory including computer executable instructions for recognizing a ground engaging tool; and a processor coupled to the memory and configured to execute the computer executable instructions, the computer executable instructions when executed by the processor cause the processor to: determine a dimension of a ground engaging tool installed on a work tool; compare the determined dimension of the ground engaging tool installed on a work tool to the theoretical dimension of a new ground engaging tool installed on the work tool; and calculate the difference between the determined dimension and the theoretical dimension.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for monitoring the condition of a ground engaging tool of a machine using a GET monitoring system, the method comprising: determining a dimension of the ground engaging tool installed on a work tool using a plurality of sensors receiving signals from the ground engaging tool from different angles; comparing the determined dimension of the ground engaging tool installed on a work tool to a theoretical acceptable dimension of the ground engaging tool; and calculating the difference between the determined dimension and the theoretical dimension.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the theoretical dimension is determined by comparing the image of the ground engaging tool to a template image of the ground engaging tool when new.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising comparing the difference between the determined dimension and the theoretical dimension to a threshold value.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising creating an alert that the ground engaging tool needs to be serviced if the difference is below the threshold value.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising creating an alert that the ground engaging tool needs to be replaced if the difference is above the threshold value.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensors are a plurality of cameras, the method further comprising tracking the kinematic line of action of the ground engaging tool to reduce interpretations of extraneous images.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensors are a plurality of cameras, the method further comprising determining whether images are taken at day or night.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensors are a plurality of cameras, the method further comprising determining whether images are taken during inclement weather.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensors are a plurality of cameras, the method further comprising determining whether images are taken when the ground engaging tool is covered by mud, dirt, sand, or ice.
10. A GET monitoring system for monitoring the condition of a ground engaging tool installed on a work tool, the system comprising: a plurality of sensors configured to take measurements of a ground engaging tool installed on a work tool from at least two different angles; and an electronic controller unit coupled to the plurality of sensors, wherein the electronic controller unit is configured to: determine a dimension of a ground engaging tool installed on a work tool; compare the determined dimension of the ground engaging tool installed on a work tool to a theoretical dimension of a new ground engaging tool installed on the work tool; and calculate the difference between the determined dimension and the theoretical dimension.
11. The GET monitoring system of claim 10, wherein the electronic controller unit is further configured to store a data template of a new ground engaging tool installed on the work tool.
12. The GET monitoring system of claim 10, wherein the electronic controller unit is configured to compare the difference between the determined dimension and the theoretical dimension to a threshold value, if the difference is below the threshold value, then the electronic controller unit is configured to create an alert that the ground engaging tool needs to be serviced, if the difference is above the threshold value, then the electronic controller unit is configured to create an alert that the ground engaging tool is damaged or missing, requiring immediate maintenance.
13. The GET monitoring system of claim 10, wherein the plurality of sensors include at least two cameras taking images of the ground engaging tool installed on the work tool from two different vantage points.
14. The GET monitoring system of claim 13, further comprising a HMS-FS including a boom and stick joint, and the plurality of cameras are mounted on top of the boom and stick joint and are oriented to take measurements of relative wear of the ground engaging tool from multiple angles and provide the operator feedback on when to perform maintenance.
15. The GET monitoring system of claim 14 further comprising an output device that is in communication with the electronic controller unit and the electronic controller unit is further configured to send a signal to the output device that displays an image of the ground engaging tool installed on the work tool.
16. The GET monitoring system of claim 12, wherein the electronic controller unit is further configured to store a database of data templates for various ground engaging tools and to compare the determined dimension of various ground engaging tools to one or more data templates.
17. The GET monitoring system of claim 14, further comprising a plurality of ground engaging tools and wherein the plurality of cameras are placed a fixed distance away from the plurality of ground engaging tools, providing multiple vantage points of the individual ground engaging tools, giving the electronic controller unit 3D information to determine the relative wear between the individual ground engaging tools.
18. The GET monitoring system of claim 13, further comprising a work tool and a plurality of ground engaging tools extending from the work tool, and wherein at least two cameras are configured to view the bottom of the work tool and the plurality of ground engaging tools, and the electronic controller unit is configured to track the kinematic line of action of the ground engaging tool to reduce interpretations of extraneous images, or to interpret whether the images are taken during the day, during the night, when there is snow, when there is rain, when there is mud, when there is ice, or while the work tool is moving.
19. An electronic controller unit of a machine comprising: a memory including computer executable instructions for recognizing a ground engaging tool; and a processor coupled to the memory and configured to execute the computer executable instructions, the computer executable instructions when executed by the processor cause the processor to: determine a dimension of a ground engaging tool installed on a work tool; compare the determined dimension of the ground engaging tool installed on a work tool to the theoretical dimension of a new ground engaging tool installed on the work tool; and calculate the difference between the determined dimension and the theoretical dimension.
20. The electronic controller unit of claim 19 wherein the memory includes a threshold value matched to the determined dimension of the ground engaging tool and the processor is configured to compare the difference between the threshold value and the calculated difference between the determined measurement of the predetermined dimension and the theoretical dimension, and to send out an alert based on whether the calculated difference is less than or greater than the threshold value.
</claims>
</document>
