<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/055,G01R33/38,G01R33/44,G01R33/48,G01R33/483,G01R33/56,G06K9/62,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HYPERFINE RESEARCH
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROTHBERG, JONATHAN, M.
RALSTON, TYLER, S.
CHARVAT, GREGORY L.
SOFKA, MICHAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62144878
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTOMATED DETECTION IN MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGES
</title>

<abstract>
Some aspects include a method of determining change in size of an abnormality in a brain of a patient positioned within a low-field magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) device. The method comprises, while the patient remains positioned within the low-field MRI device, acquiring first and second magnetic resonance (MR) image data of the patient's brain; providing the first and second MR image data as input to a trained statistical classifier to obtain corresponding first and second output; identifying, using the first output, at least one initial value of at least one feature indicative of a size of the abnormality; identifying, using the second output, at least one updated value of the at least one feature; determining the change in the size of the abnormality using the at least one initial value of the at least one feature and the at least one updated value of the at least one feature.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining change in size of an abnormality in a brain of a patient using a low-field magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) device, the method comprising: acquiring first magnetic resonance (MR) image data of a patient's brain; providing the first MR image data as input to a trained statistical classifier to obtain corresponding first output; acquiring second MR image data of the patient's brain subsequent to acquiring the first MR image data; providing the second MR image data as input to the trained statistical classifier to obtain corresponding second output; and determining the change in the size of the abnormality in the patient's brain using the first output and the second output.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, using the first output, at least one initial value of at least one feature indicative of a size of an abnormality in the patient's brain; identifying, using the second output, at least one updated value of the at least one feature indicative of the size of the abnormality in the patient's brain, wherein determining the change in the size of the abnormality is performed using the at least one initial value of the at least one feature and the at least one updated value of the at least one feature.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein identifying, using the first output, the at least one initial value of the at least one feature indicative of the size of the abnormality in the patient's brain comprises identifying one or more first values indicative of a first diameter of the abnormality.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the identifying further comprises identifying one or more second values indicative of a second diameter of the abnormality orthogonal to the first diameter.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the change in the size of the abnormality using the at least one initial value of the at least one feature and the at least one updated value of the at least one feature comprises: determining an initial size of the abnormality using the at least one initial value of the at least one feature; determining an updated size of the abnormality using the at least one updated value of the at least one feature; and determining the change in the size of the abnormality using the determined initial and updated sizes of the abnormality.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein identifying, using the first output, the at least one initial value of the at least one feature indicative of the size of the abnormality in the patient's brain comprises identifying a region in the MR image data including the abnormality.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the trained statistical classifier comprises a multi-layer neural network having at least one convolutional layer.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the second MR image data is obtained within one hour of the first MR image data.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the abnormality comprises a hemorrhage.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the abnormality comprises a lesion, an edema, a stroke core, a stroke penumbra, and/or swelling.
11. A low-field magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) device configured to determine change in size of an abnormality in a brain of a patient, the low-field MRI device comprising: a plurality of magnetic components, including: at least one B0 magnet; at least one gradient coil; and at least one radio frequency coil; and at least one controller configured to operate the plurality of magnetic components to acquire first magnetic resonance (MR) image data of the patient's brain, and acquire second MR image data of the patient's brain subsequent to acquiring the first MR image data, wherein the at least one controller further configured to perform: providing the first and second MR image data as input to a trained statistical classifier to obtain corresponding first output and second output; and determining the change in the size of the abnormality using the first output and second output.
12. The low-field MRI device of claim 11, wherein the abnormality comprises a hemorrhage, a lesion, an edema, a stroke core, a stroke penumbra, and/or swelling.
13. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed by at least one computer hardware processor, cause the at least one computer hardware processor, to perform method of determining change in size of an abnormality in a brain of a patient, the method comprising: acquiring first magnetic resonance (MR) image data of the patient's brain; providing the first MR image data as input to a trained statistical classifier to obtain corresponding first output; acquiring second MR image data of the patient's brain subsequent to acquiring the first MR image data; providing the second MR image data as input to the trained statistical classifier to obtain corresponding second output; and determining the change in the size of the abnormality using the first output and the second output.
14. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises: identifying, using the first output, at least one initial value of at least one feature indicative of a size of an abnormality in the patient's brain; identifying, using the second output, at least one updated value of the at least one feature indicative of the size of the abnormality in the patient's brain, wherein determining the change in the size of the abnormality is performed using the at least one initial value of the at least one feature and the at least one updated value of the at least one feature.
15. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein identifying, using the first output, the at least one initial value of the at least one feature indicative of the size of the abnormality in the patient's brain comprises identifying one or more first values indicative of a first diameter of the abnormality and one or more second values indicative of a second diameter of the abnormality orthogonal to the first diameter.
16. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein determining the change in the size of the abnormality using the at least one initial value of the at least one feature and the at least one updated value of the at least one feature comprises: determining an initial size of the abnormality using the at least one initial value of the at least one feature; determining an updated size of the abnormality using the at least one updated value of the at least one feature; and determining the change in the size of the abnormality using the determined initial and updated sizes of the abnormality.
17. A system, comprising: at least one computer hardware processor; and at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed by the at least one computer hardware processor, cause the at least one computer hardware processor, to perform method of determining change in size of an abnormality in a brain of a patient, the method comprising: acquiring first magnetic resonance (MR) image data of the patient's brain; providing the first MR image data as input to a trained statistical classifier to obtain corresponding first output; acquiring second MR image data of the patient's brain subsequent to acquiring the first MR image data; providing the second MR image data as input to the trained statistical classifier to obtain corresponding second output; and determining the change in the size of the abnormality using the first output and the second output.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the method further comprises: identifying, using the first output, at least one initial value of at least one feature indicative of a size of an abnormality in the patient's brain; identifying, using the second output, at least one updated value of the at least one feature indicative of the size of the abnormality in the patient's brain, wherein determining the change in the size of the abnormality is performed using the at least one initial value of the at least one feature and the at least one updated value of the at least one feature.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein identifying, using the first output, the at least one initial value of the at least one feature indicative of the size of the abnormality in the patient's brain comprises identifying one or more first values indicative of a first diameter of the abnormality and one or more second values indicative of a second diameter of the abnormality orthogonal to the first diameter.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein determining the change in the size of the abnormality using the at least one initial value of the at least one feature and the at least one updated value of the at least one feature comprises: determining an initial size of the abnormality using the at least one initial value of the at least one feature; determining an updated size of the abnormality using the at least one updated value of the at least one feature; and determining the change in the size of the abnormality using the determined initial and updated sizes of the abnormality.
</claims>
</document>
