<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GETAC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
TSAI, KUN-YU
YANG, PO-YU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73228556
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORK-BASED METHOD FOR SELECTING SURFACE TYPE OF OBJECT
</title>

<abstract>
An artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object includes receiving at least one object image, performing surface type identification on each of the at least one object image by using a first predictive model to categorize the object image to one of a first normal group and a first abnormal group, and performing surface type identification on each output image in the first normal group by using a second predictive model to categorize the output image to one of a second normal group and a second abnormal group.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object, comprising: receiving at least one object image; performing surface type identification on each of the at least object image by using a first predictive model to categorize the object image to one of a first normal group and a first abnormal group; and performing surface type identification on an output image of the first normal group by using a second predictive model to categorize the output image of the first normal group to one of a second normal group and a second abnormal group.
2. The artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object according to claim 1, further comprising: performing deep learning by using different training conditions to respectively build the first predictive model and the second predictive model.
3. The artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object according to claim 1, further comprising: transforming the at least one object image into at least one matrix; wherein the step of performing the surface type identification on each of the at least one object image executes the first predictive model by using the at least one matrix.
4. The artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object according to claim 1, further comprising: normalizing the at least one object image; and transforming the normalized at least one object image into the at least one matrix; wherein the step of performing the surface type identification on each of the at least one object image executes the first predictive model by using the at least one matrix.
5. The artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object according to claim 1, further comprising: dividing each of the at least one object image into a plurality of image areas; and designating at least one region of interest from the plurality of image areas of each of the at least one object image; wherein the step of performing the surface type identification on each of the at least one object image by using the first predictive model comprises: executing the first predictive model by using the at least one region of interest of each of the at least one object image.
6. The artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object according to claim 1, wherein the at least one object image comprises a plurality of object images obtained by capturing an object based on light from different lighting directions; the method further comprising: superimposing the plurality of object images of the object into an initial image; wherein the step of performing the surface type identification on each of the at least one object image by using the first predictive model comprises: executing the first predictive model by using the initial image.
7. The artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object according to claim 1, wherein the output image of the first normal group comprises at least one of the at least one object image; the method further comprising: transforming each object image in the first normal group into a matrix; wherein the step of performing the surface type identification on the output image of the first normal group by using the second predictive model comprises executing the second predictive model by using the transformed matrix.
8. The artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object according to claim 1, wherein the output image of the first normal group comprises at least one of the at least one object image; the method further comprising: normalizing each object image in the first normal group; and transforming each normalized object image into a matrix; wherein the step of performing the surface type identification on the output image of the first normal group by using the second predictive model comprises executing the second predictive model by using the transformed matrix.
9. The artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object according to claim 1, wherein the output image of the first normal group comprises at least one of the at least one object image; the method further comprising: dividing each of the at least one object image in the first normal group into a plurality of image areas; designating at least one region of interest from the plurality of image areas of each of the at least one object image; wherein the step of performing the surface type identification on the output image of the first normal group by using the second predictive model comprises: executing the second predictive model by using the at least one region of interest of each of the at least one object image.
10. The artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object according to claim 1, wherein the output image of the first normal group comprises, among the least one object image, a plurality of object images obtained by capturing an object based on light from different lighting directions; the method further comprising: superimposing the plurality of object images of the object into an initial image; wherein the step of performing the surface type identification on the output image of the first normal group by using the second predictive model comprises: executing the second predictive model by using the initial image.
11. The artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object according to claim 1, wherein the first predictive model is implemented by a convolutional neural network (CNN) algorithm.
12. The artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object according to claim 1, wherein the second predictive model is implemented by a convolutional neural network (CNN) algorithm.
13. The artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object according to claim 1, wherein each of the at least one object image is formed by combining a plurality of detection images.
14. The artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object according to claim 1, wherein the first predictive model and the second predictive model have different determination defect rates.
15. The artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object according to claim 1, wherein the first predictive model and the second predictive model have neural network layers in different quantities.
16. The artificial neural network-based method for selecting a surface type of an object according to claim 1, wherein the first predictive model and the second predictive model have different neuron configurations.
</claims>
</document>
