<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H20/00,G16H50/20,G16H50/30,G16H80/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CLOVER HEALTH
</assignee>

<inventors>
TSAI, JASMINE
LOSCUTOFF, PETER VLADIMIR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70279723
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RELATING DATA TO IDENTIFIERS FOR VARIANT TESTING
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for identifying related data for variant testing are disclosed. For example, data stored for records from disparate data sources may not include the same identifiers for all records such that it may not be readily identified as record for the same member. The presently-disclosed systems and methods generate data tagged as identifier information and determine the degree of similarity between the identifier information. Based at least in part on the degree of similarity meeting or exceeding a threshold amount of similarity, the data may be associated with a member identifier. By properly identifying user information corresponding to member identifiers, the members may be split in meaningful ways to perform variant test.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for generating member identifiers using data from disparate data sources, comprising: one or more processors; and computer-readable media storing first computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving, from different sources that have different identifier formats, data associated with medical records; identifying first identifier information in a first data of the data, the first data associated with a first identifier format; identifying second identifier information in a second data of the data, the second data associated with a second identifier format; determining a degree of similarity of the first identifier information and the second identifier information; generating a member identifier based at least in part on the first data and the second data; associating the first data and the second data with the member identifier based at least in part on the degree of similarity satisfying a threshold amount of similarity; determining a medical interest group based at least in part on first data and the second data; generating a first version and a second version of a variant test for the medical interest group; and assigning the member identifier to the first version of the variant test based at least in part on randomly splitting the medical interest group using the member identifier.
2. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: aggregating the first data and the second data as user data; and storing test data associated with the variant test to the user data.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the medical interest group comprises: generating user data including the first data and the second data; and determining that the user data meets selection criteria for the medical interest group.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: presenting the first version of the variant test to a user associated with the member identifier; receiving test data associated with the first version of the variant test; aggregating the test data with group data associated with the variant test; and performing data analysis on the group data to determine results for the variant test.
5. A method, comprising: receiving record data associated with a record; identifying one or more identifiers in the record data; analyzing the one or more identifiers with respect to identifiers in stored data; determining a degree of similarity in identifiers between the record data and a user data of the stored data; identifying a user identification (ID) associated with the user data; associating the record data with the user ID based at least in part on the degree of similarity satisfying a threshold amount of similarity; and storing the record data with the stored data.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the one or more identifiers includes one or more of a name, a nickname, a surname, a date of birth, an address, an account identifier, and a social security number.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving second data associated with a second record; identify second identifiers in the second record; analyze the second identifiers with respect to the identifiers in saved records; determining the degree of similarity in identifiers is below the threshold amount of similarity; generate a second user ID; associate the second record with the second user ID; and stored the second record with the saved records.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein storing the record data includes: aggregating the record data with the user data to form aggregated data.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: identifying an interest group based at least in part on the aggregated data satisfying criteria of the interest group; and associating the user ID with the interest group.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: identifying a second interest group based at least in part on the aggregated data satisfying second criteria of the second interest group; and associating the user ID with the second interest group.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: identifying a first variant test associated with the interest group; identifying a second variant test associated with the second interest group; and assigning the user ID to the first variant test based at least in part on a priority of the first variant test.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising: identifying a first variant test associated with the interest group; identifying a second variant test associated with the second interest group; and assigning the user ID to the first variant test and the second variant test based at least in part on satisfying a conflict check.
13. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and computer-readable media storing first computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: retrieving a first data object including a member identification (ID) and first identifiers; receiving a second data object including second identifiers; analyzing the first data object with respect to the second data object to determine a degree of similarity; determining that the degree of similarity meets a threshold amount of similarity; and associating the second data object with the member ID based at least in part on the degree of similarity.
14. The system of claim 13, the operations further comprising aggregating the first data object with the second data object to form user data associated with the member ID.
15. The system of claim 14, the operations further comprising assigning an interest group to the member ID based at least in part on the user data.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein assigning the interest group further includes: determining that the user data satisfies first criteria associated with the interest group; determining that the user data satisfies second criteria associated with a second interest group; determining that the interest group has a higher priority than the second interest group.
17. The system of claim 13, the operations further comprising: receiving a third data object including second identifiers; and analyzing the third data object with respect to the first data object and the second data object to determine the degree of similarity.
18. The system of claim 17, the operations further comprising: determining that the degree of similarity meets the threshold amount of similarity; and associating the third data object with the member ID based at least in part on the degree of similarity.
19. The system of claim 17, the operations further comprising: determining that the degree of similarity is below the threshold amount of similarity; generating a second member ID; and associating the third data object with the second member ID.
20. The system of claim 19, the operations further comprising: receiving a fourth data object including fourth identifiers; analyzing the fourth data object with respect to the first data object and the second data object to determine a first degree of similarity; analyzing the fourth data object with respect to the third data object to determine a second degree of similarity; determining that the first degree of similarity is below the threshold amount of similarity; determining that the second degree of similarity meets the threshold amount of similarity; and associating the fourth data object with the second member ID.
</claims>
</document>
