<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/22,G10L21/0216
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROVI GUIDES
</assignee>

<inventors>
AGARWAL, SUKANYA
GUPTA, VIKRAM MAKAM
Singh, Gyanveer
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514791
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DETERMINING PERIODS OF EXCESSIVE NOISE FOR RECEIVING SMART SPEAKER VOICE COMMANDS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for determining periods of excessive noise for smart speaker voice commands. An electronic timeline of volume levels of currently playing content is made available to a smart speaker. From this timeline, periods of high content volume are determined, and the smart speaker alerts users during periods of high volume, requesting that they wait until the high-volume period has passed before issuing voice commands. In this manner, the smart speaker helps prevent voice commands that may not be detected, or may be detected inaccurately, due to the noise of the content currently being played.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of indicating when periods of excessive noise may interfere with smart speaker voice commands, the method comprising: receiving information identifying an electronic timeline of volume levels of content to be played back by an electronic media playback device; determining, from the timeline of volume levels, first times during which the volume levels of the content exceed a predetermined volume, and second times during which the volume levels of the content do not exceed the predetermined volume; and during the first times, generating an indicator to delay a voice command until at least one of the second times.
2. The method of claim 1: wherein the indicator is a first indicator; and wherein the method further comprises, during the second times, generating a second indicator to issue the voice command.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first indicator and the second indicator each comprise one or more of an audible instruction and an illumination of a light source.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising generating the second indicator during a portion of the first times when the first times exceed a predetermined period of time.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating an indicator further comprises generating the indicator to delay a voice command during a predetermined period prior to the first times.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the indicator is an audible instruction.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the audible instruction is an audible instruction to delay the voice command by a predetermined period of time.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the indicator is an illumination of a light source.
9. The method of claim 1: wherein the first times are time periods during which the volume levels of the content exceed the predetermined volume for less than a predetermined amount of time; and wherein the second times are time periods during which the volume levels of the content do not exceed the predetermined volume, and time periods during which the volume levels of the content exceed the predetermined volume for more than the predetermined amount of time.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating further comprises selectively generating the indicator during a later portion of the first times and not during an earlier portion of the first times.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the selectively generating further comprises selectively generating the indicator during the later portion of the first times when the first times exceed a predetermined period of time.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the selectively generating further comprises selectively generating the indicator during only a portion of the first times when the first times exceed a predetermined period of time.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the media playback device comprises the smart speaker.
14. A system for indicating when periods of excessive noise may interfere with smart speaker voice commands, the system comprising: a storage device; and control circuitry configured to: receive information identifying an electronic timeline of volume levels of content to be played back by an electronic media playback device; determine, from the timeline of volume levels, first times during which the volume levels of the content exceed a predetermined volume, and second times during which the volume levels of the content do not exceed the predetermined volume; and during the first times, generate an indicator to delay a voice command until at least one of the second times.
15. The system of claim 14: wherein the indicator is a first indicator; and wherein the control circuitry is further configured to, during the second times, generate a second indicator to issue the voice command.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the first indicator and the second indicator each comprise one or more of an audible instruction and an illumination of a light source.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the control circuitry is further configured to generate the second indicator during a portion of the first times when the first times exceed a predetermined period of time.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the generating an indicator further comprises generating the indicator to delay a voice command during a predetermined period prior to the first times.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein the indicator is an audible instruction.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the audible instruction is an audible instruction to delay the voice command by a predetermined period of time.
21. The system of claim 14, wherein the indicator is an illumination of a light source.
22. The system of claim 14: wherein the first times are time periods during which the volume levels of the content exceed the predetermined volume for less than a predetermined amount of time; and wherein the second times are time periods during which the volume levels of the content do not exceed the predetermined volume, and time periods during which the volume levels of the content exceed the predetermined volume for more than the predetermined amount of time.
23. The system of claim 14, wherein the generating further comprises selectively generating the indicator during a later portion of the first times and not during an earlier portion of the first times.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the selectively generating further comprises selectively generating the indicator during the later portion of the first times when the first times exceed a predetermined period of time.
25. The system of claim 23, wherein the selectively generating further comprises selectively generating the indicator during only a portion of the first times when the first times exceed a predetermined period of time.
26. The system of claim 14, wherein the media playback device comprises the smart speaker.
27. 27-39. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
