<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A23L33/135,A61K35/741,C12Q1/06,C12Q1/689
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SMARTDNA
</assignee>

<inventors>
SMITH, MARGARET
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65014822
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD OF DIAGNOSING A DYSBIOSIS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to methods of diagnosing a dysbiosis in a subject, methods of determining a suitable treatment, and methods of treating a dysbiosis. In some aspects, the present disclosure relates to diagnosing or determining a subtype of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining a subtype of IBS in a subject, comprising determining the abundance of at least 10 genera of bacteria in a sample from the subject or the subject's environment, wherein the at least 10 genera are selected from Alkaliphilus, Sphingomonas, Pelotomaculum, Eggerthella, Eubacterium, Paracoccus, Lachnoclostridium, Bacillus, Anaerorhabdus, Actinomyces, Methylobacterium, Pseudomonas, Streptococcus, Staphylococcus, Peptoclostridium, Erysipelatoclostridium, Anaerostipes, Sutterella, Brevundimonas, Clostridium, Peptostreptococcaceae, Slackia, Blastomonas, Lactobacillus, Klebsiella, Agrobacterium, and Phyllobacterium.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the abundance of at least 20 genera of bacteria is determined.
3. A method of determining a subtype of IBS in a subject, comprising determining an abundance of at least 5 species of bacteria in a sample from the subject or the subject's environment, wherein the at least 5 species of bacteria are selected from Christensenella minuta, Papillibacter cinnamivorans, Bilophila wadsworthia, Ruminococcus bromii, Soleaferrea massiliensis, Akkermansia muciniphila, Oscillibacter valericigenes, Desulfitobacterium frappieri, Anaerofilum pentosovorans, Lactobacillus japonicas, Catabacter hongkongensis, Clostridium sporosphaeroides, and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the abundance of at least 10 species of bacteria is determined.
5. A method of diagnosing autism, comprising determining an abundance of at least 10 genera of bacteria in a sample from a subject or the subject's environment, wherein the at least 10 genera are selected from Ruminiclostridium, Sarcina, Lachnoclostridium, Asaccharospora, Lachnobacterium, Anaerostipes, Faecalibacterium, Bacteroides, Mogibacterium, Haemophilus, Intestinibacter, Mobiluncus, Lactobacillus, Alistipes, Dorea, Ferrimonas, Romboutsia, Actinobacillus, Anaerofilum, Erwinia, Phascolarctobacterium, Selenomonas, Microbacterium, Ureibacillus, Proteus, Megamonas, Christensenella, Butyricimonas, Arcobacter, Yersinia, Lachnoanaerobaculum, Variovorax, Citrobacter, Paenibacillus, Anaeroplasma, Fictibacillus, Eisenbergiella, Lautropia, and Howardella.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the abundance of at least 20 genera of bacteria is determined.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the abundance of at least 30 genera of bacteria is determined.
8. A method of diagnosing a dysbiosis in a subject, comprising determining an abundance of at least 5 species of bacteria in a sample from the subject, wherein the at least 5 species of bacteria are selected from Corynebacterium minutissimum, Prevotella oulora, Fusobacterium naviforme, Prevotella ruminicola, Bifidobacterium thermacidophilum, Dysgonomonas wimpennyi, Propionibacterium acnes, Corynebacterium tuberculostearicum, Brevibacterium casei, Lachnobacterium bovis, Prevotella dentasini, Prevotella albensis, Veillonella atypica, Kytococcus schroeteri, Prevotella copri, Bacteroides barnesiae, Prevotella conceptionensis, Anaerofustis stercorihominis, Bifidobacterium thermophilum, Prevotella brevis, Roseburia intestinalis, Clostridium symbiosum, Barnesiella intestinihominis, Bacteroides fragilis, Anaerostipes rhamnosus, Collinsella aerofaciens, Clostridium bolteae, Arthrobacter creatinolyticus, Atopobium fossor, Prevotella paludivivens, and Pelotomaculum isophthalicicum.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the abundance of at least 10 species of bacteria is determined.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the abundance of at least 20 species of bacteria is determined.
11. A method of diagnosing a dysbiosis in a subject, comprising determining an abundance of at least 5 genera of bacteria in a sample from the subject, wherein the at least 5 genera of bacteria are selected from Corynebacterium, Lachnobacterium, Propionibacterium, Kytococcus, Fusobacterium, Veillonella, Prevotella, Anaerofustis, Arthrobacter, Dysgonomonas, Calothrix, Atopobium, Brevibacterium, Micrococcus, Burkholderia, Veillonella, Pelotomaculum, Acidaminococcus, Mitsuokella, Allisonella, Odoribacter, Bacteroides, Coprobacter, Alistipes, Ruminococcus, Ferrimonas, Alkaliphilus, and Lautropia.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the abundance of at least 10 genera of bacteria is determined.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the abundance of at least 20 genera of bacteria is determined.
14. The method of any one of claims 8 to 13, wherein the dysbiosis is IBS.
15. A method of determining a subtype of IBS in a subject with IBS, comprising determining an abundance of at least 5 species of bacteria in a sample from the subject, wherein the at least 5 species of bacteria are selected from Christensenella minuta, Soleaferrea massiliensis, Papillibacter cinnamivorans, Oscillibacter valericigenes, Ruminococcus bromii, Gemmiger formicilis, Desulfitobacterium frappieri, Alistipes obesi, Anaerofilum pentosovorans, Akkermansia muciniphila, Alkaliphilus crotonatoxidans, Eubacterium sulci, Bdellovibrio exovorus, Curtobacterium pusillum, Flavonifractor plautii, Ruminococcus lactaris, Mogibacterium neglectum, Roseburia inulinivorans, Butyricimonas virosa, Intestinimonas butyriciproducens, Butyrivibrio crossotus, Barnesiella intestinihominis, Flavobacterium resistens, Flavobacterium cauense, Clostridium glycyrrhizinilyticum, Anaerostipes hadrus, Prevotella ruminicola, Blautia wexlerae, and Anaerostipes coli.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the abundance of at least 10 species of bacteria is determined.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the abundance of at least 20 species of bacteria is determined.
18. A method comprising diagnosing IBS in a subject according to the method of claim 14 and, if the subject is diagnosed with IBS, subsequently determining the subtype of IBS according to the method of any one of claims 15 to 17.
19. A method of determining a subtype of IBS in a subject who has been diagnosed with IBS-M, comprising determining an abundance of at least 5 species of bacteria in a sample from the subject and assigning the subject as having constipation-dominant IBS-M (IBS-MC) or diarrhea-dominant IBS-M (IBS-MD) based on the abundance of the at least 5 species of bacteria.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the at least 5 species of bacteria are selected from Peptoniphilus coxii, Clostridium clariflavum, Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron, Bacteroides coprocola, Oscillibacter valericigenes, Clostridium hveragerdense, Ruminiclostridium clariflavum, Bacteroides xylanisolvens, Clostridium chauvoei, Clostridium tepidiprofundi, Papillibacter cinnamivorans, Lactococcus fujiensis, Bacteroides uniformis, Bacillus thuringiensis, Johnsonella ignava, Pseudoflavonifractor capillosus, Christensenella minuta, Enterococcus azikeevi, Intestinimonas butyriciproducens, Eubacterium sulci, Flavobacterium resistens, Anaerotruncus colihominis, Pseudoflavonifractor capillosus, Bacteroides fluxus, Ruminococcus lactaris, Butyrivibrio crossotus, Eubacterium rectale, Prevotella ruminicola, Gemmiger formicilis, Ruminococcus flavefaciens, and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii.
21. The method of claim 19 or claim 20, wherein the abundance of at least 10 species of bacteria is determined.
22. The method of any one of claims 19 to 21, wherein the abundance of at least 20 species of bacteria is determined.
23. A method of diagnosing autism in a subject with IBS, comprising determining an abundance of at least 5 species of bacteria in a sample from the subject, wherein the at least 5 species of bacteria are selected from Eubacterium hallii, Eubacterium rectale, Lachnobacterium bovis, Lachnoclostridium glycyrrhizinilyticum, Blautia glucerasea, Eubacterium desmolans, Anoxystipes fissicatena, Blautia coccoides, Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Clostridium symbiosum, Roseburia inulinivorans, Anaerostipes coli, Coprococcus comes, Lachnospira pectinoschiza, Arthrobacter creatinolyticus, Clostridium nexile, Bifidobacterium thermacidophilum, Anaerostipes rhamnosus, Clostridium clariflavum, Blautia wexlerae, Fusicatenibacter saccharivorans, Tolumonas auensis, Ruminococcus gnavus, Peptococcus niger, Dorea formicigenerans, Roseburia intestinalis, Blautia wexlerae, Clostridium populeti, Dorea massiliensis, and Eubacterium eligens.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the abundance of at least 10 species of bacteria is determined.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein the abundance of at least 20 species of bacteria is determined.
26. A method of diagnosing a dysbiosis associated with intestinal senescence, the method comprising determining an abundance of at least 5 species of bacteria in a sample from the subject, wherein the at least 5 species of bacteria are selected from Pseudobutyrivibrio xylanivorans, Dorea massiliensis, Blautia glucerasea, Lachnoclostridium herbivorans, Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Romboutsia lituseburense, Peptoniphilus methioninivorax, Blautia coccoides, Megamonas funiformis, Eubacterium rectale, Clostridium bifermentans, Roseburia intestinalis, Clostridium populeti, Clostridium hiranonis, Peptoclostridium difficile, Lactonifactor longoviformis, Clostridium caliptrosporum, Asaccharospora irregulare, Clostridium malenominatum, Clostridium symbiosum, Clostridium thermoalcaliphilum, Lachnoclostridium glycyrrhizinilyticum, Ruminococcus faecis, Blautia schinkii, Pseudoflavonifractor capillosus, Clostridium chromoreductans, Clostridium ghonii, Clostridium innocuum, Christensenella minuta, Dorea formicigenerans, and Clostridium tertium.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the abundance of at least 10 species of bacteria is determined.
28. The method of claim 26, wherein the abundance of at least 20 species of bacteria is determined.
29. A method of treating a subject with a dysbiosis, comprising determining the subtype of IBS according to the method of any one of claims 1 to 4 or 15 to 22, or diagnosing the subject according to the method of any one of claims 5 to 14, or 23 to 28, and administering a composition to the subject which increases and/or decreases the abundance of one or more species of bacteria in the subject, thereby treating the subject.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the composition is a nutraceutical.
31. The method of claim 29, wherein the composition is a probiotic.
32. The method of claim 29, wherein the composition is a faecal microbiota transplant.
33. A method of monitoring effectiveness of the treatment of any one of claims 29 to 32, comprising measuring the abundance of one or more species of bacteria in a sample from the subject, wherein an increase and/or decrease in the abundance of one or more species of bacteria is indicative of the effectiveness of the treatment.
34. A method of determining a suitable treatment for a subject with a dysbiosis, comprising determining the subtype of IBS according to the method of any one of claims 1 to 4 or 15 to 22, or diagnosing the subject according to the method of any one of claims 5 to 14, or 23 to 28, and determining a suitable treatment based on the results of the determination of subtype of IBS or diagnosis.
35. The method of any one of claims 1 to 34, wherein the subject is a human
36. The method of any one of claims 1 to 35, wherein the subject has previously been administered a chemotherapy or an antibiotic.
37. The method of any one of claims 1 to 36, wherein the sample is a faecal sample.
</claims>
</document>
