<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J15/00,B25J19/02,B64C39/02,G01B11/16,G01J5/00,G06K19/06,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TYSON, II; JOHN
</assignee>

<inventors>
TYSON, II; JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72922642
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OPTICAL STRUCTURAL HEALTH MONITORING
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems and devices for optical structural health monitoring of a subject, including the utilization of pointillism to provide a design or painting of the surface of the structure to be monitored, which also serves as a mechanism for conducting SHM, implementing digital image correlation (DIC) by applying a pattern comprising a random dot pattern and/or codes. The subject is imaged using imaging equipment to capture images of the pattern. For some applications, the captured images of the pattern and codes are stored in a CAD file that represents the subject or portion thereof to which the pattern and codes are applied, and includes the locations of the pattern and codes. Indicia applied to a structure may be applied using a paintjet or inkjet, or robotic mechanism, while some applications implement pre-patterning of a composite sheet that is used to form the structure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for conducting structural health monitoring of a substrate, comprising: a) designating a substrate or portion thereof to be monitored; b) applying a pattern on the substrate; c) imaging the pattern with equipment that captures the image of the pattern; d) storing the image captured in step c); e) wherein the pattern applied comprises a pattern of discrete elements that are imaged with said imaging equipment to identify strains and deformations of the substrate.
2. The method of claim 1, including determining from the imaging the presence of or the extent of strain or deformation of the substrate or an area of the substrate, wherein said image captured of said pattern imaged is aligned to correspond with at least one or more locations of the structure, and wherein the method includes aligning a prior image of the substrate to correspond with said one or more substrate locations, and wherein said determining the presence of or the extent of strain or deformation of said substrate or said area of said substrate comprises comparing the imaged pattern with said prior imaged pattern.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein said structure comprises a composite structure, and wherein said pattern is applied to a composite structure during the construction process of said structure.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein said composite structure is formed by a plurality of layers and wherein at least one layer includes said pattern.
5. The method of claim 4, including pre-applying said pattern to said at least one layer that includes said pattern, and constructing said composite structure by attaching said at least one layer that includes the pattern thereon to at least one other layer, wherein said at least one layer that includes the pattern comprises an outermost layer or an innermost layer of the composite structure.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein attaching said at least one layer that includes the pattern thereon to at least one other layer comprises autoclaving the layers together so that the said outermost or innermost layer having the pattern thereon comprises an outer surface of the composite structure.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein said at least one layer that includes the pattern thereon comprises a thermoset epoxy layer.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the thermoset epoxy layer comprises urethane, and wherein the pattern is preprinted on a urethane layer as the first or last layer of a composite layup, such as graphite epoxy or fiberglass.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein said epoxy layer comprising urethane is a film having the pattern pre-printed thereon.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the pattern is applied by applying a urethane composite film having the pattern pre-printed thereon.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the pattern comprises one or more of a pattern of random dots and one or more codes, wherein said one or more codes include unique QR codes to locate where on the structure the data is being taken, and wherein historical data is recalled for a baseline comparison of said image of said pattern.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein said pattern comprises an invisible pattern.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the invisible pattern comprises a pattern of a UV coating.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the UV coating is a UV paint, ink or dye.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the pattern is formed in the pattern areas by applying a UV paint.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein said pattern applied to the substrate comprises a design, and wherein said design is formed by a plurality of spaced apart discrete points, dots or elements.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein said plurality of spaced apart discrete points, dots or elements are applied on a field, wherein said plurality of spaced apart discrete points, dots or elements exhibit contrast from said field.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein imaging includes filtering the image capture of said plurality of spaced apart discrete points, dots or elements applied on said field to increase contrast, wherein filtering includes placing an optical filter of a color that increases contrast between the discrete points, dots or elements applied and said field.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein said pattern is provided on a sheet, and wherein said sheet is used to form said structure.
20. The method of claim 2, including storing the image captured in step c) in a database; wherein steps c) and d) are repeated over time intervals, and wherein monitoring of one or more conditions of the substrate or portion thereof is carried out; wherein said database comprises imaging results that include historical imaging results for said monitoring of said one or more conditions; and monitoring one or more conditions by conducting Digital Image Correlation (DIC) or thermography NDT to compare one or more historical imaging results to a current imaging result; and determining whether slight changes of the substrate or portion thereof, or a structure formed from said substrate have taken place; wherein the historical imaging results for the substrate or portion thereof to be monitored are stored in a database, and wherein determining changes includes identifying slight changes of said captured image from the historical measurements of historical imaging results stored in said database, wherein said changes are determined by Digital Image Correlation (DIC) or thermography NDT.
21. The method of claim 20, conditions by conducting Digital Image Correlation (DIC) or thermography NDT.
22. The method of claim 21, using an existing pattern in the material or structure, such as the natural patterns in asphalt or concrete for measurement with DIC.
23. The method of claim 21, using the natural thermal changes in a material structure for thermography NDT such as the solar warming of a bridge deck.
24. The method of claim 1, wherein imaging the pattern with equipment that captures the image of the pattern is carried out using a robot.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein imaging the pattern with equipment that captures the image of the pattern is carried out using a mobile robot to measure ever part of a structure or vehicle.
26. The method of claim 1, wherein imaging the pattern with equipment that captures the image of the pattern is carried out using an inspection drone, the inspection drone being controllable or pre-programmed to image the substrate being monitored or a portion of the substrate, and implementing DIC to determine a structural health condition of the substrate, and wherein the method includes operating an inspection drone to image the pattern on the substrate.
27. The method of claim 1, wherein imaging the pattern with equipment that captures the image of the pattern is carried out using a space-based inspection drone, the inspection drone being controllable or pre-programmed to image the substrate being monitored or a portion of the substrate, and implementing DIC to determine a structural health condition of the substrate, and wherein the method includes operating an inspection drone to image the pattern on the substrate.
28. The method of claim 4, including pre-applying said pattern to said at least one layer that includes said pattern, and constructing said composite structure by attaching said at least one layer that includes the pattern thereon to at least one other layer, wherein said at least one layer that includes the pattern comprises an outermost layer, and wherein said at least one other layer includes a pattern thereon.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein said at least one additional layer comprises an innermost layer of the composite structure.
30. The method of claim 11, wherein said pattern comprises an invisible pattern.
31. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the pattern to said substrate comprises placing a vinyl sheet or vinyl wrap as a template on said substrate, wherein said vinyl sheet or vinyl wrap contains openings corresponding to the pattern to be applied, and applying the coating over the vinyl sheet or wrap and through the openings.
</claims>
</document>
