<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
D06F33/00,D06F34/18,D06F34/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOI, YOON HEE
KANG, MINJEONG
LEE, JUNGMIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71122500
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CLOTHING MANAGEMENT APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
A clothing management apparatus may include a display and a processor to, based on a state of a garment in an image of the garment, determine a management necessity of the garment, based on the management necessity, determine a management completeness that is expected when the garment is managed according to a management mode among a plurality of management modes, based on the management completeness, generate an expected image of the garment when the garment is managed according to the management mode, and control the display to display the expected image to a user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A clothing management apparatus, comprising: a display; and a processor configured to: based on a state of a garment in an image of the garment, determine a management necessity of the garment, based on the management necessity, determine a management completeness that is expected when the garment is managed according to a management mode among a plurality of management modes, based on the management completeness, generate an expected image of the garment when the garment is managed according to the management mode, and control the display to display the expected image to a user.
2. The clothing management apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: based on information of fabric of the garment, determine the management mode among the plurality of management modes, predict the management completeness of the garment that is expected when the garment is managed in a first management mode and a second management mode, generate a first expected image of the garment managed in the first management mode and a second expected image of the garment managed in the second management mode, and control the display to display the first expected image and the second expected image and information on the first management mode and the second management mode on the display, and based on a user command selecting one of the first management mode and the second management mode being input, manage the garment in the selected management mode.
3. The clothing management apparatus of claim 2, wherein the information on the first management mode and the second management mode comprise information on management completeness of the garment that is predicted in the first and second management modes.
4. The clothing management apparatus of claim 2, wherein the information on the first management mode and the second management mode comprise information on power consumption of the clothing management apparatus that is expected when the garment is managed in the first management mode and the second management mode.
5. The clothing management apparatus of claim 2, wherein the information on the first management mode and second management mode comprise information on expected times for managing the garment in the first management mode and the second management mode.
6. The clothing management apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to, based on a plurality of images including each of a plurality of garments, determine the management mode that is applicable to each of the plurality of garments based on fabric information of each of the plurality of garments, classify the plurality of garments into groups based on the management mode, and control the display to display information on the management mode that is determined by the classified groups.
7. The clothing management apparatus of claim 6, wherein the processor is further configured to classify the garment, among the plurality of garments, into one of the groups to which a same management mode is applied, and control the display to display information on the management mode by the classified groups.
8. The clothing management apparatus of claim 6, wherein the processor is further configured to predict management completeness of each of the plurality of garments that is expected when the plurality of garments are managed by each of the plurality of management modes, and classify the plurality of garments so that the plurality of garments are managed with a relatively high management completeness.
9. The clothing management apparatus of claim 6, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine power consumption of the clothing management apparatus that is expected when the plurality of garments are managed in each of the plurality of management modes, and classify the plurality of garments so that the plurality of garments are managed with a relatively low power consumption, and determine an expected time for managing the plurality of garments in each of the plurality of management modes, and classify the plurality of garments so that the plurality of garments are managed in a relatively short time.
10. The clothing management apparatus of claim 6, wherein the processor is further configured to classify the plurality of garments so that the plurality of garments are managed in a minimum number of times to satisfy the management completeness input by the user.
11. The clothing management apparatus of claim 6, wherein the processor is further configured to classify the plurality of garments based on a plurality of different criteria and control the display to display information on the plurality of management modes that are applicable to each of the plurality of garments for each criterion.
12. The clothing management apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to classify the plurality of garments so that the plurality of garments are managed with a relatively higher management completeness, or classify the plurality of garments so that the plurality of garments are managed in a relatively shorter time.
13. The clothing management apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine the management necessity of the garment included in the obtained image with the obtained image as input data to a first artificial intelligence AI model that is trained to determine the management necessity of the garment based on state information of the garment, determine the management completeness using a second AI model that is trained to predict the management completeness of the garment when the garment is managed according to the management mode based on the management necessity of the garment, and generate the expected image of the garment that is expected when the garment is managed according to the management mode, using a third AI model that is trained to generate the expected image of the garment based on the management completeness.
14. A controlling method of a clothing management apparatus, the method comprising: based on a state of a garment in an image of the garment, determining a management necessity of the garment; based on the management necessity, determining a management completeness that is expected when the garment is managed according to a management mode among a plurality of management modes; based on the management completeness, generating an expected image of the garment when the garment is managed according to the management mode; and displaying the expected image to a user.
15. The controlling method of claim 14, further comprising: based on information of fabric of the garment, determining the management mode among the plurality of management modes, predicting the management completeness of the garment that is expected when the garment is managed in a first management mode and a second management mode, generating a first expected image of the garment managed in the first management mode and a second expected image of the garment managed in the second management mode, and displaying the first expected image and the second expected image and information on the first management mode and the second management mode on the display, and based on a user command selecting one of the first management mode and the second management mode being input, managing the garment in the management mode.
16. The controlling method of claim 15, wherein the information on the first management mode and the second management mode comprise information on management completeness of the garment that is predicted in the first management mode and the second management mode.
17. The controlling method of claim 15, wherein the information on the first management mode and the second management mode comprise information on power consumption of the clothing management apparatus that is expected when the garment is managed in the first management mode and the second management mode.
18. The controlling method of claim 15, wherein the information on the first management mode and the second management mode comprise information on expected times for managing the garment by the first management mode and the second management mode.
19. The controlling method of claim 14, further comprising: determining the management necessity of the garment included in the obtained image with the obtained image as input data to a first artificial intelligence AI model that is trained to determine the management necessity of the garment based on state information of the garment; determining the management completeness using a second AI model that is trained to predict the management completeness of the garment when the garment is managed according to the management mode based on the management necessity of the garment; and generating the expected image of the garment that is expected when the garment is managed according to the management mode, using a third AI model that is trained to generate the expected image of the garment based on the management completeness.
20. A clothing management apparatus, comprising: a display; an image capturing device; and a processor configured to: control the image capturing device to obtain an image of a garment; based on a condition of the garment in the image, determine an intensity of laundering to be applied to the garment; based on the intensity of laundering to be applied to the garment, determine a laundering completeness that is estimated when the garment is laundered according to a laundering mode of the clothing management apparatus; based on the laundering completeness, generate an estimated image of the garment illustrating a condition of the garment as if the garment is laundered according to the laundering mode; and control the display to display the estimated image to a user.
</claims>
</document>
