<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B7/04,G06F3/0482,G06K9/00,G06K9/03,G06K9/62,G06T11/60,G16H30/20,G16H40/63,H04N5/232,H04R1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
NYE, KATELYN ROSE
RAO, GIREESHA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68732703
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and apparatus to capture patient vitals in real time during an imaging procedure
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus, systems, and methods to capture and combine patient vitals and image data are disclosed. An example apparatus includes a video capturing device or an audio receiving device, a vitals data manager, and a vitals aggregator. The video capturing device captures visual vital information of a patient from a vital monitor during an imaging procedure. The audio receiving device captures audible vital information of the patient during the imaging procedure. The vitals data manager receives the captured visual vital information or the captured audible vital information, the captured visual vital information or the captured audible vital information to be tagged with an identifier of the patient to form tagged vitals information. The vitals aggregator receives the tagged vitals information and the image associated with the patient, the vitals aggregator to organize the tagged vitals information with the image associated with the patient to form a composite image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus to capture patient vitals in real time during an imaging procedure, the apparatus comprising: at least one of a video capturing device or an audio receiving device, the video capturing device configured to capture a visual vital information of a patient from a vital monitor during the imaging procedure and the audio receiving device configured to capture an audible vital information of the patient during the imaging procedure; a vitals data manager to: obtain at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information, the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information tagged with an identifier of the patient; obtain a medical image of the patient, the medical image captured during the imaging procedure; and determine, utilizing the identifier of the patient, that the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information correspond to the medical image of the patient and a vitals aggregator to: when the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information does not correspond to the medical image, trigger a recapture of the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information; and embed the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information with the medical image corresponding to the patient to form a composite image.
2. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, further including a composite image generator to output the composite image.
3. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the at least one of the video capturing device and the audio receiving device are to simultaneously capture the visual vital information and the audible vital information.
4. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the at least one of the video capturing device is to capture an image of the patient.
5. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the at least one of the video capturing device is a 360 degree rotatable camera that is to capture the visual vital information in one or more image frames and to capture an image of the patient.
6. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the video capturing device is to utilize optical character recognition to capture the visual vital information from the vital monitor.
7. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the vitals data manager is to: determine inconsistencies of the visual vital information and the audible vital information; and resolve the inconsistencies between the visual vital information and the audible vital information to generate consistent vital information.
8. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the visual vital information or the audible vital information is to be embedded in a header of a file, the file including the medical image of the patient.
9. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, further including a user interface to: provide instructions to select the patient from a plurality of patients; activate the video capturing device; activate the audio receiving device; and interact with the composite image.
10. The apparatus as defined in claim 9, wherein the user interface is integrated with an image data source, the image data source to perform the imaging procedure with respect to the patient.
11. A method comprising: capturing, using at least one processor triggered by an imaging procedure, a visual vital information corresponding to a patient or an audible vital information corresponding to the patient during the imaging procedure, wherein the visual vital information is captured from a vital monitor during the imaging procedure; tagging, using the at least one processor, the visual vital information or the captured audible vital information with an identifier of the patient; obtaining a medical image of the patient, the medical image captured during the imaging procedure; determining, utilizing the identifier of the patient, that the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information correspond to the medical image of the patient in response to determining that the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information does not correspond to the medical image, triggering a recapture of the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information; and embedding the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information with the medical image obtained from the imaging procedure to form a composite image.
12. (canceled)
13. (canceled)
14. The method as defined in claim 11, further including loading a patient record to initiate the imaging procedure.
15. The method as defined in claim 11, wherein the at least one processor and the vital monitor are incorporated with an imaging device.
16. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed, cause at least one processor to at least: capture a visual vital information corresponding to a patient or an audible vital information corresponding to the patient during an imaging procedure, the visual vital information captured from a vital monitor during the imaging procedure; tag the visual vital information or the audible vital information with an identifier corresponding to the patient; obtain a medical image of the patient, the medical image captured during the imaging procedure; determine, utilizing the identifier of the patient, at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information corresponding to the medical image of the patient; in response to determining the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information does not correspond to the medical image, trigger a recapture of the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information; and embed the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information with the medical image obtained from the imaging procedure to form a composite image.
17. (canceled)
18. (canceled)
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium as defined in claim 16, wherein the at least one processor and the vital monitor are to be incorporated with an imaging device.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium as defined in claim 16, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the at least one processor to load a record of the patient to initiate the imaging procedure. Please add the following new claims:
21. The method of claim 11, further including determining, utilizing the identifier of the patient, that the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information correspond to the patient of the medical image.
22. The method of claim 21, further including, in response to determining that the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information correspond to the patient of the medical image, embedding the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information in a header of the medical image.
23. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium as defined in claim 16, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the at least one processor to determine, utilizing the identifier of the patient, that the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information correspond to the patient of the medical image.
24. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium as defined in claim 23, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the at least one processor to, in response to determining that the at least one of the visual vital information or the audible vital information correspond to the patient of the medical image, embed the visual vital information or the audible vital information in a header of the medical image.
</claims>
</document>
