<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K7/14,G06N20/00,G06N3/08,G06T3/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG, PULIN
Chen, Jiada
Chen, Shuang
Liang, Mingjie
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73551570
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TWO-DIMENSIONAL CODE IDENTIFICATION AND POSITIONING
</title>

<abstract>
The present specification provides a two-dimensional code identification method and device, and a two-dimensional code positioning and identification model establishment method and device. The two-dimensional code identification method includes: obtaining a to-be-identified two-dimensional code, and performing global feature positioning detection on the to-be-identified two-dimensional code by using a pre-established two-dimensional code positioning and identification model; performing focus adjustment, based on a predetermined image resolution, on the to-be-identified two-dimensional code on which positioning detection is performed; and decoding the to-be-identified two-dimensional code on which focus adjustment is performed. The present specification can improve the identification accuracy of two-dimensional codes shot in complex scenarios.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: obtaining an image of a two-dimensional code; detecting the two-dimensional code within the image by performing global feature positioning detection using a pre-established two-dimensional code positioning and identification model; subsequent to detecting the two-dimensional code, obtaining a focus-adjusted image of the two-dimensional code based on a predetermined image resolution; and decoding the two-dimensional code from the focus-adjusted image of the two-dimensional code.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the method comprises: determining that a resolution of the image of the two-dimensional code fails to satisfy the predetermined image resolution; and obtaining the focus-adjusted image of the two-dimensional code based on the predetermined image resolution responsive to determining that the resolution of the two-dimensional code fails to satisfy the predetermined image resolution.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the focus-adjusted image of the two-dimensional code based on the predetermined image resolution comprises applying an auto-focusing algorithm to obtain an updated image of the two-dimensional code at a different resolution.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the focus-adjusted image of the two-dimensional code based on the predetermined image resolution comprises applying a zoom adjustment based on the predetermined image resolution to obtain an updated image of the two-dimensional code at a different resolution.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein applying the zoom adjustment comprises: detecting whether a two-dimensional code scanning device comprises an optical zoom function; and based on detecting that the two-dimensional code scanning device has the optical zoom function, adjusting the two-dimensional code scanning device to a new zoom level, and capturing a revised image of the two-dimensional code at the new zoom level, or based on detecting that the two-dimensional code scanning device does not have an optical zoom function, applying an image interpolation process to a captured pixel area of the image of the two-dimensional code.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein, after capturing the revised image of the two-dimensional code, the method further comprises: determining the two-dimensional code does not satisfy the predetermined image resolution; and applying an interpolation process to the captured pixel area of the image of the two-dimensional code.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the pre-established two-dimensional code positioning and identification model comprises a machine learning network and the method comprises generating the machine learning network, wherein generating the machine learning network comprises: capturing a sample two-dimensional code based on a predetermined environment condition; labeling corresponding identifier information for a specified area of the sample two-dimensional code; and performing training by using the sample two-dimensional code and the identifier information as input data for the machine learning network to obtain the pre-established two-dimensional code positioning and identification model.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the machine learning network is a convolution neural network, deep learning network, deep convolutional neural network, regions with convolutional neural networks (R-CNN), Faster R-CNN, regression-based detection methods, you only look once (YOLO), or single-shot detector (SSD).
9. The method according to claim 7, wherein the specified area is a corner point of the sample two-dimensional code.
10. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions executable by a computer system to perform operations comprising: obtaining an image of a two-dimensional code; detecting the two-dimensional code within the image by performing global feature positioning detection using a pre-established two-dimensional code positioning and identification model; subsequent to detecting the two-dimensional code, obtaining a focus-adjusted image of the two-dimensional code based on a predetermined image resolution; and decoding the two-dimensional code from the focus-adjusted image of the two-dimensional code.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the operations comprise: determining that a resolution of the image of the two-dimensional code fails to satisfy the predetermined image resolution; and obtaining the focus-adjusted image of the two-dimensional code based on the predetermined image resolution responsive to determining that the resolution of the two-dimensional code fails to satisfy the predetermined image resolution.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein obtaining the focus-adjusted image of the two-dimensional code based on the predetermined image resolution comprises applying an auto-focusing algorithm to obtain an updated image of the two-dimensional code at a different resolution.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein obtaining the focus-adjusted image of the two-dimensional code based on the predetermined image resolution comprises applying a zoom adjustment based on the predetermined image resolution to obtain an updated image of the two-dimensional code at a different resolution.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein applying the zoom adjustment comprises: detecting whether a two-dimensional code scanning device comprises an optical zoom function; and based on detecting that the two-dimensional code scanning device has the optical zoom function, adjusting the two-dimensional code scanning device to a new zoom level, and capturing a revised image of the two-dimensional code at the new zoom level, or based on detecting that the two-dimensional code scanning device does not have an optical zoom function, applying an image interpolation process to a captured pixel area of the image of the two-dimensional code.
15. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein, after capturing the revised image of the two-dimensional code, the operations further comprise: determining the two-dimensional code does not satisfy the predetermined image resolution; and applying an interpolation process to the captured pixel area of the image of the two-dimensional code.
16. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the pre-established two-dimensional code positioning and identification model comprises a machine learning network wherein generating the machine learning network comprises: capturing a sample two-dimensional code based on a predetermined environment condition; labeling corresponding identifier information for a specified area of the sample two-dimensional code; and performing training by using the sample two-dimensional code and the identifier information as input data for the machine learning network to obtain the pre-established two-dimensional code positioning and identification model.
17. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the machine learning network is a form of convolution neural network, deep learning network, deep convolutional neural network, regions with convolutional neural networks (R-CNN), Faster R-CNN, regression-based detection methods, you only look once (YOLO), or single-shot detector (SSD).
18. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the specified area is a corner point of the sample two-dimensional code.
19. A computer-implemented system, comprising: one or more computers; and one or more computer memory devices interoperably coupled with the one or more computers and having tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable media storing one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, perform one or more operations comprising: obtaining an image of a two-dimensional code; detecting the two-dimensional code within the image by performing global feature positioning detection using a pre-established two-dimensional code positioning and identification model; subsequent to detecting the two-dimensional code, obtaining a focus-adjusted image of the two-dimensional code based on a predetermined image resolution; and decoding the two-dimensional code from the focus-adjusted image of the two-dimensional code.
20. The computer-implemented system of claim 19, wherein the operations comprise: determining that a resolution of the image of the two-dimensional code fails to satisfy the predetermined image resolution; and obtaining the focus-adjusted image of the two-dimensional code based on the predetermined image resolution responsive to determining that the resolution of the two-dimensional code fails to satisfy the predetermined image resolution.
21. The computer-implemented system of claim 19, wherein obtaining the focus-adjusted image of the two-dimensional code based on the predetermined image resolution comprises applying an auto-focusing algorithm to obtain an updated image of the two-dimensional code at a different resolution.
22. The computer-implemented system of claim 19, wherein obtaining the focus-adjusted image of the two-dimensional code based on the predetermined image resolution comprises applying a zoom adjustment based on the predetermined image resolution to obtain an updated image of the two-dimensional code at a different resolution.
23. The computer-implemented system of claim 22, wherein applying the zoom adjustment comprises: detecting whether a two-dimensional code scanning device comprises an optical zoom function; and based on detecting that the two-dimensional code scanning device has the optical zoom function, adjusting the two-dimensional code scanning device to a new zoom level, and capturing a revised image of the two-dimensional code at the new zoom level, or based on detecting that the two-dimensional code scanning device does not have an optical zoom function, applying an image interpolation process to a captured pixel area of the image of the two-dimensional code.
24. The computer-implemented system of claim 23, wherein, after capturing the revised image of the two-dimensional code, the operations further comprise: determining the two-dimensional code does not satisfy the predetermined image resolution; and applying an interpolation process to the captured pixel area of the image of the two-dimensional code.
25. The computer-implemented system of claim 19, wherein the pre-established two-dimensional code positioning and identification model comprises a machine learning network wherein generating the machine learning network comprises: capturing a sample two-dimensional code based on a predetermined environment condition; labeling corresponding identifier information for a specified area of the sample two-dimensional code; and performing training by using the sample two-dimensional code and the identifier information as input data for the machine learning network to obtain the pre-established two-dimensional code positioning and identification model.
26. The computer-implemented system of claim 25, wherein the machine learning network is a form of convolution neural network, deep learning network, deep convolutional neural network, regions with convolutional neural networks (R-CNN), Faster R-CNN, regression-based detection methods, you only look once (YOLO), or single-shot detector (SSD).
27. The computer-implemented system of claim 25, wherein the specified area is a corner point of the sample two-dimensional code.
</claims>
</document>
