<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C15/00,G01C5/00,G06K9/00,G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CORELOGIC SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DU WEI
Brown, Taylor Bryant
SMITH, David Frederick
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73016380
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM, COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT AND METHOD FOR USING A CONVOLUTION NEURAL NETWORK TO AUTO-DETERMINE A FLOOR HEIGHT AND FLOOR HEIGHT ELEVATION OF A BUILDING
</title>

<abstract>
A system, apparatus, computer program product, and method automatically, accurately, and reliably detect floor elevations of improvements (e.g., houses) on parcels of land without human inspection of the property. Fusing aspects of image processing, artificial intelligence, and information on adjacent grade points along the footprint of a specific property, the present computer-based system identifies a first floor height (FFH), and first floor elevation (FFE) of the improvement with respect to the terrain or surface of the parcel of land on which the improvement is located. In turn, by knowing the FFH of the improvement on the parcel, it is possible to improve on conventional methods for estimating flood risk to a property without requiring a personal inspection of the parcel by a human.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of detecting a first floor height (FFH) of a first floor of a building relative to a terrain or surface of a parcel of land on which the building is located, the method comprising: obtaining information on a building footprint of the building on the parcel of land; applying an image of the building to a CNN-based AI engine that has been trained to identify a first floor of a building from the image; analyzing the image with the CNN-based AI engine and determining the FFH of the building; extracting digital elevation map information of the terrain and/or surface from a dataset for the parcel of land; converting the FFH of the building to a first floor elevation (FFE) from the FFH and the digital elevation map information; and identifying a location at an adjacent grade point along the building footprint so as to determine an elevation of the location and the FFE of the building at the location.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: populating a data structure with fields associated with the building, the fields including an address of the parcel of land, the FFH, the first floor elevation, a lowest floor elevation, the elevation at the adjacent grade point a latitude and a longitude of the adjacent grade point, and at least one property characteristic.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: training the CNN-based AI engine by inputting training images and ground truth images to the CNN-based AI engine, and backpropagating losses so as to establish data extraction parameters for a data extraction network portion of the CNN-based AI engine.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the training comprises training the CNN-based AI engine to detect building types including applying training images of different types of building to the CNN-based AI engine, the different types of buildings including basement-below grade, basement-daylight, and basement-walkout.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the training comprises training the CNN-based AI engine to detect foundation types by applying training images of buildings with different types of foundations.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the training comprises training the CNN-based AI engine to detect a whether a building has a floor below a main floor.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the method further comprises adjusting the FFH to a lower height in response to the CNN-based AI engine having detected a presence of the floor below the main floor.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the training of the CNN-based AI engine to detect whether the building has the floor below the main floor includes detecting from the training images at least one of a basement window, a crawlspace, and a back entrance at a level that is below the main floor.
9. The method of claim 3, wherein the training comprises training the CNN-based AI engine to detect a main entrance of the building.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the training of the CNN-based AI engine to detect the main entrance includes training the CNN-based AI engine with images includes buildings having front steps above ground that lead to the main entrance.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the training of the CNN-based AI engine to detect the main entrance includes training the CNN-based AI engine with overhead images of buildings having different walkways leading to the main entrance.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the training of the CNN-based AI engine to detect the main entrance includes training the CNN-based AI engine to detect the main entrance from street-view images of buildings having at least one of entrance lights adjacent to the main entrance, a doorbell or a door knocker, a package adjacent to the main entrance; a door handle, and a lock.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the training of the CNN-based AI engine to detect the main entrance includes training the CNN-based AI engine with images of building layouts.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the analyzing includes determining that a main entrance is not detectable from the image within a predetermined detection threshold, and in response to determining that the main entrance is not detectable, detecting a street segment that aligns with a front portion of the building footprint, and determining the main entrance is in a center of the front portion of the building footprint that is aligned with the street segment.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining characteristics of the building recording in a database; forming an initial assessment of the FFH from the characteristics of the building; and performing the analyzing the image with the CNN-based AI engine to adjust the initial assessment of the FFH from an analytical model.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the training comprises training the CNN-based AI engine to estimate a height of the main entrance of the building, and the image being a street view image of the building, wherein the image includes at least one of steps and a ramp leading to the main entrance.
17. The method of claim 1, further comprising: retrieving base flood elevation (BFE) information for the structure; and determining a floor elevation of the building that is at least higher than the BFE by a predetermined amount so as to determine whether the building would experience flood damage during an occurrence of a flood that corresponds in size with a base flood.
18. The method of claim 6, wherein the training of the CNN-based AI engine to detect whether the building has a floor below a main floor comprising: training the CNN-based AI engine to detect an interior feature of the building that is associated with the main floor, determine a distance of the interior feature to a building footprint geometric point, associate the building geometric footprint point with a georeferenced point, and estimate the FFE using the georeferenced point and the distance of the interior feature to the building footprint geometric point.
19. A system for detecting a first floor height of a first floor building relative to a terrain or surface of a parcel of land on which the building is located, the system comprising: circuitry configured to obtain information on a building footprint of the building on the parcel of land; apply an image of the building to a CNN-based AI engine that has been trained to identify the first floor of a building from the image; analyze the image with the CNN-based AI engine and determine the first floor height of the building; extract digital elevation map information of the terrain and/or surface from a dataset for the parcel of land; convert the first floor height of the building to a first floor elevation from the first floor height and the digital elevation map information; and identify a part of the building footprint at an adjacent grade point along the building footprint so as to detect elevation of the parcel of land and the first floor elevation of the building at the adjacent grade point along the building footprint.
20. A non-transitory computer readable storage device that contains computer readable instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform a method of detecting a first floor height of a first floor of a building relative to a terrain or surface of a parcel of land on which the building is located, the method comprising: obtaining information on a building footprint of the building on the parcel of land; applying an image of the building to a CNN-based AI engine that has been trained to identify the first floor of a building from the image; analyzing the image with the CNN-based AI engine and determining the first floor height of the building; extracting digital elevation map information of the terrain and/or surface from a dataset for the parcel of land; converting the first floor height of the building to a first floor elevation from the first floor height and the digital elevation map information; and identifying a part of the building footprint at an adjacent grade point along the building footprint so as to detect an elevation of the parcel of land and the first floor elevation of the building at an adjacent grade point.
</claims>
</document>
