<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PETUUM
</assignee>

<inventors>
XIE, PENGTAO
XING, ERIC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69162064
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and Methods for Medical Topic Discovery Based on Large-Scale Machine Learning
</title>

<abstract>
A machine learning system that includes a plurality of machine learning processors, maintains a topic matrix that represents the relevancies or measures of prevalence of a plurality of medical topics among a plurality of clinical documents. Each processor in the system is configured to determine at least one local sufficient factor group for a document included in the plurality of documents, and to send the at least one local sufficient factor group to one or more other processors in the system. Each processor is further configured to receive at least one remote sufficient factor group from another processor in the system, and to process the local sufficient factor group together with the remote sufficient factor group to obtain the topic matrix. The remote sufficient factor group or groups are determined by other processors in the system for another document included in the plurality of documents.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A machine learning system for creating a topic matrix that represents a prevalence of each of a plurality of medical topics among a plurality of clinical documents, the system comprising a plurality of machine learning processors, each processor configured to: determine at least one local sufficient factor group for one or more documents included in the plurality of clinical documents; send the at least one local sufficient factor group to one or more other processors in the system; receive at least one remote sufficient factor group from another processor in the system, the at least one remote sufficient factor group being determined by the other processor for another document included in the plurality of clinical documents; and process the local sufficient factor group together with the remote sufficient factor group to obtain the topic matrix.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the local sufficient factor group comprises two sufficient factors, each corresponding to a vector representing a measure between words in the document and a medical topic.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the remote sufficient factor group comprises two sufficient factors, each corresponding to a vector representing a measure between words in the other document and a medical topic.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein: the processor determines a plurality of local sufficient factor groups for a corresponding plurality of documents, and the processor is further configured to select and send a subset of the plurality of local sufficient factor groups to the one or more other processors in the system.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor sends the at least one local sufficient factor group by being further configured to randomly select, from among a plurality of other processors in the system, the one or more other processors to which to send the local sufficient factor group.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein sufficient factor groups are randomly selected based on joint matrix column subset selection.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor processes the local sufficient factor group together with the remote sufficient factor group by being further configured to: convert each of the local sufficient factor group and the remote sufficient factor group into a corresponding update matrix; and apply each update matrix to the topic matrix using a projection operation.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the processor converts each of the local sufficient factor group and the remote sufficient factor group into a corresponding update matrix by being further configured to obtain an outer product of the sufficient factors that respectively define the local sufficient factor group and the remote sufficient factor group.
9. A method of creating a topic matrix that represents a prevalence of each of a plurality of medical topics among a plurality of clinical documents, the method comprising: determining at a first professor included in a machine learning system comprising a plurality of machine learning processors, at least one local sufficient factor group for one or more documents included in the plurality of clinical documents; sending from the first processor, the at least one local sufficient factor group to one or more second processors in the system; receiving at the first processor, at least one remote sufficient factor group from a second processor in the system, the at least one remote sufficient factor group being determined by the second processor for another document included in the plurality of clinical documents; and processing at the first processor, the local sufficient factor group together with the remote sufficient factor group to obtain the topic matrix.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the local sufficient factor group comprises two sufficient factors, each corresponding to a vector representing a measure between words in the document and a medical topic.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the remote sufficient factor group comprises two sufficient factors, each corresponding to a vector representing a measure between words in the other document and a medical topic.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein a plurality of local sufficient factor groups are determined for a corresponding plurality of documents, and further comprising: selecting at the first processor, and sending from the first processor a subset of the plurality of local sufficient factor groups to the one or more other processors in the method.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein sending the at least one local sufficient factor group comprises: randomly selecting, from among a plurality of second processors in the system, the second processor to which to send the local sufficient factor group.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein sufficient factor groups are randomly selected based on joint matrix column subset selection.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein processing the local sufficient factor group together with the remote sufficient factor group comprises: converting each of the local sufficient factor group and the remote sufficient factor group into a corresponding update matrix; and applying each update matrix to the topic matrix using a projection operation.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein converting each of the local sufficient factor group and the remote sufficient factor group into a corresponding update matrix comprises obtaining an outer product of the sufficient factors that respectively define the local sufficient factor group and the remote sufficient factor group.
</claims>
</document>
