<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01B11/26,G06N20/00,G06Q10/04,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RUBICON GLOBAL HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
PODGORNY, SAMANTHA SPRING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70849276
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Service detection and recommendation system
</title>

<abstract>
A system is disclosed for managing waste services. The system may include a waste detector mounted onboard a service vehicle and configured to capture image data of a receptacle encountered by the service vehicle. The system may also include a display, and a controller in communication with the waste detector and the display. The controller may be configured to recognize the receptacle within the image data, and to determine a fill status of the receptacle based on the image data. The controller may also be configured to selectively determine a customer recommendation for a different sized receptacle based on the fill status, and to cause a dispatch to provide the different sized receptacle based on the customer recommendation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A waste management system, comprising: a waste detector mounted onboard a service vehicle and configured to capture image data of a receptacle encountered by the service vehicle using an onboard camera; a display; and a controller in communication with the waste detector and the display, the controller being configured to: recognize the receptacle within the image data from the onboard camera; determine waste-related parameters based on the image data captured by the onboard camera; determine a fill status of the receptacle based on the waste-related parameters, including at least a lid angle of the receptacle, wherein the lid angle is an indication of fill status between closed and fully open; determine a trend of the customer to overfill or underfill the receptacle based on the fill status; selectively determine a customer recommendation for a different sized receptacle based on the trend; and cause a dispatch to provide the different sized receptacle based on the customer recommendation.
2. The waste management system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to determine an identification of a customer associated with the receptacle, and to determine the customer recommendation based at least partially on the identification.
3. The waste management system of claim 2, wherein the controller is further configured to determine the identification based on the image data.
4. The waste management system of claim 2, further including a location device configured to detect a location of the service vehicle, wherein the controller is in further communication with the location device and configured to determine the identification based on the location of the service vehicle detected at a time of image data capturing.
5. (canceled)
6. The waste management system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to provide the image data to a machine-learning (ML) model, wherein the ML model is configured to identify portions of the image data.
7. The waste management system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: determine existence of waste-related parameters in the image data; and selectively determine the fill status of the receptacle based on the waste-related parameters.
8. The waste management system of claim 7, wherein the waste-related parameters further include at least one of a mound height above a top edge of the receptacle, and an amount of waste around a base of the receptacle.
9. The waste management system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to selectively filter the image data based on at least one of a distance from the service vehicle to the receptacle at a time of image data capturing and an angle between the waste detector and the receptacle at the time of image data capturing.
10. The waste management system of claim 1, wherein the display is located offboard the service vehicle.
11. The waste management system of claim 1, further including a sensor configured to generate a signal during servicing of the receptacle by the service vehicle that is indicative of a weight of waste in the receptacle, wherein the controller is in further communication with the sensor and configured to determine the fill status of the receptacle based at least in part on the signal.
12. The waste management system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to automatically schedule the service vehicle to swap out the receptacle based on the customer recommendation.
13. A method of managing waste services, comprising: capturing, by a waste detector onboard a first service vehicle, image data of a receptacle encountered by the first service vehicle using an onboard camera; automatically recognizing, by a controller in communication with the waste detector, the receptacle within the image data captured by the onboard camera; determining waste-related parameters based on the image data captured by the onboard camera; determining a fill status of the receptacle based on the waste-related parameters, including at least a lid angle of the receptacle, wherein the lid angle is an indication of fill status between closed and fully open; determining a trend of the customer to overfill or underfill the receptacle based on the fill status; selectively determining a customer recommendation for a different sized receptacle based on the trend; and automatically dispatching a second service vehicle to provide the different sized receptacle based on the customer recommendation.
14. The method of claim 13, further including identifying a customer associated with the receptacle, wherein selectively determining the customer recommendation includes determining the customer recommendation based at least partially on an identity of the customer.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein identifying the customer includes identifying the customer based on the image data.
16. The method of claim 14, further including detecting a location of the first service vehicle at a time of image data capturing, wherein identifying the customer includes identifying the customer based at least partially on the location of the first service vehicle.
17. (canceled)
18. The method of claim 13, further including determining existence of waste-related parameters in the image data, wherein determining the fill status of the receptacle includes determining the fill status of the receptacle based on the waste-related parameters.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the waste-related parameters further include at least one of a mound height above a top edge of the receptacle, and an amount of waste around a base of the receptacle.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium containing computer-executable programming instructions for performing a method of waste service management, the method comprising: capturing image data of a receptacle encountered by a first service vehicle using a waste detector; automatically recognizing the receptacle within the image data; determining waste-related parameters based on the image data captured by the waste detector, the waste-related parameters including at least a lid angle of the receptacle, wherein the lid angle is an indication of fill status between closed and fully open; determining a fill status of the receptacle based on the receptacle lid angle; identifying a customer associated with the receptacle based on the image data; determining a trend of the customer to overfill or underfill the receptacle based on the fill status; selectively determining a recommendation for the customer for a different sized receptacle based on the trend; and automatically dispatching a second service vehicle to provide the different sized receptacle based on the recommendation.
</claims>
</document>
