<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/12,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AVAGO TECHNOLOGIES INTERNATIONAL SALES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN XUEMIN
LI YONG
TISCHLER, BRETT
KATRE, PRASHANT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971672
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTIMEDIA CONTENT RECOGNITION WITH LOCAL AND CLOUD-ASSISTED MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
A system for multimedia content recognition includes a cloud server and a media client including a silicon-on-chip (SoC) device to communicate with the cloud server via a network. The SoC device includes a local area network (LAN) interface to receive media content from a media source and a media monitor to analyze the received media content and to generate signature information for transmission to the cloud server or for a local analysis. The SoC device further includes an inference engine to locally analyze the signature information to detect an unauthorized access.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for multimedia content recognition, the system comprising: a cloud server; and a media client including a silicon-on-chip (SoC) device and configured to communicate with the cloud server via a network, the SoC device comprising: a local area network (LAN) interface configured to receive media content from a media source; a media monitor configured to analyze the received media content and to generate signature information for transmission to the cloud server or for a local analysis; and an inference engine configured to locally analyze the signature information to detect and recognize the media content.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the cloud server is configured to perform media content recognition and to use an internal analysis engine or an external analysis engine to analyze the signature information to detect and recognize the media content.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the cloud server is configured to deploy pre-trained machine-learning (ML) models to the signature information received from SoC device.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the SoC device further comprises an IP processing module configured to capture analytic data associated with IP protocol processing elements via inspection of IP packets by parsing appropriate header fields of one or more protocol layers of a respective protocol stack.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein capturing of the analytic data associated with IP protocol processing elements is triggered by distributed triggering information from various processing modules of the SoC device.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the SoC device further comprises an ML trigger controller configured to collect the distributed triggering information from ML trigger agents embedded in various processing modules of the SoC device, wherein the distributed triggering information comprise information related to one or more parameters of a list of parameters including a timing, a time duration, an audio and/or video type and a security attribute.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the inference engine includes pre-trained ML models and is further configured to perform a local ML inference or signature data filtering, and wherein an operation of the inference engine is triggered by the ML trigger controller.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the SoC device further comprises a media processing module configured to perform media processing functions including decoding, formatting and transformation.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the media processing module is further configured to transform decoded color video frames into black-and-white video frames and to overlay decoded video frames with graphics before being captured as the signature information.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the media processing module is further configured to use an internal security engine to encrypt the signature information before the signature information is input to a local inference engine or transmitted to the cloud server for analysis.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the SoC device further comprises memory to store user's privacy protection rules received from a user device, and wherein the SoC device is configured to send the user's privacy protection rules to the cloud server.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the user's privacy protection rules are used by the SoC device or the cloud server to detect unauthorized activities of the SoC device, and wherein the cloud server is configured to present alerts to a user and a service provider.
13. A client SoC device, comprising: an interface configured to receive multimedia content from a media source; an IP processing module configured to capture analytic data associated with one or more IP protocols from the received multimedia content; a media monitor configured to analyze the captured analytic data and to generate signature information; and an inference engine including pre-trained ML models and configured to analyze the signature information to detect an unauthorized activity, and to perform a local ML inference or signature information filtering.
14. The client SoC device of claim 13, wherein the IP processing module is configured to capture the analytic data via inspection of IP packets by parsing appropriate header fields of one or more protocol layers of a respective protocol stack.
15. The client SoC device of claim 13, further comprising an ML trigger controller configured to collect distributed triggering information from one or more ML trigger agents embedded in the client SoC device.
16. The client SoC device of claim 15, wherein an operation of the inference engine is triggered by the ML trigger controller, and wherein the distributed triggering information comprise information related to one or more parameters of a list of parameters including a timing, a time duration, an audio and/or video type and a security attribute.
17. The client SoC device of claim 13, further comprising a media processing module configured to: perform media-processing functions including decoding, formatting and transformation, transform decoded color video frames into black-and-white video frames, and overlay decoded video frames with graphics before being captured as the signature information.
18. The client SoC device of claim 13, further comprising memory to store user's privacy protection rules received from a user device, and wherein the client SoC device is configured to send the user's privacy protection rules to a cloud server to provide alerts to a user and a service provider.
19. A method of multimedia content recognition, the method comprising: receiving, by a client SoC device, multimedia content from a content source; capturing, by the client SoC device, analytic data associated with one or more IP protocols from the received multimedia content; analyzing, by the client SoC device, the captured analytic data to generate a signature information for transmission to a cloud server or for a local analysis; and causing an ML inference engine of the client SoC device to perform the local analysis and to generate inference results in response to a trigger, wherein the trigger is based on triggering information collected from ML trigger agents embedded in processing modules of the client SoC device.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: assembling the signature information and the inference results into packets for transmission to the cloud server; receiving control actions and alerts for the client SoC device and a service provider from the cloud server, in response to transmission of the assembled signature information and the inference results to the cloud server; and storing the control actions and presenting the alerts to a user.
</claims>
</document>
