<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PEARSON EDUCATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALTMANN, ROBERT
OLSON, ANDREA L.
PHILLIP, JINOSH K.
REYNOLDS, CECIL R.
KAMPHAUS, RANDY
GOROS, STACY L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62783617
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RELIABILITY BASED DYNAMIC CONTENT RECOMMENDATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for automatic content remediation notification are disclosed herein. The system can include memory that can contain a content library database. The system can include a first user device and one or more servers. The one or more servers can: receive a content aggregation creation request from the first user device; identify content information associated with a set of the plurality of data packets; apply a filter request to the set of the plurality of data packets; automatically provide information relating to data packets in the restricted set of data packets to the first user device; receive content aggregate information identifying a content aggregate from the first user device; evaluate the content aggregate according to the metadata associated with the data packets of the content aggregate; and output an indicator of the evaluation result to the first user device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a database coupled to a computer network and storing a plurality of form content components to be aggregated into a form content; a user device coupled to the computer network and configured to receive: a first user input requesting a generation of a unique form; and a second user input selecting, from a form filter Graphical User Interface (GUI) element within a form content creation GUI, a target age group; and a server comprising a computing device coupled to the computer network and including at least one processor executing instructions within memory that when executed cause the system to: receive, from the user device, the first user input and the second user input; update the form content creation GUI to display a list including at least one list item displaying at least one form content component selected from the plurality of form content components and associated with the target age group in the database; receive, from the user device: a third user input selecting the at least one list item from the list; and a fourth user input requesting a calculation of a reliability value indicating a consistency of generating a particular result from the at least one form content component associated with the at least one list item selected; calculate the reliability value by applying the at least one form content component, associated with the at least one list item selected, to a risk probability model function to determine the probability of a user failing to achieve an outcome associated with the at least one form content component selected; and transmit the reliability value to the user device for display.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising, within the form content creation GUI: a form component list GUI element including the list of the at least one form content component; and a form component aggregation GUI element configured to receive and display a form content component selection from within the list.
3. The system of claim 2, further comprising a functionality within the form component creation GUI wherein the form content component selection is dragged from the form component list GUI and dropped into the form component aggregation GUI.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a form management GUI, the form management GUI including: a form selection GUI element listing a plurality of previously-created unique forms; and a unique form generation GUI element configured to receive the first user input requesting the generation of the unique form.
5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a recipient GUI element within the filter GUI element, the recipient GUI element selecting a user that will utilize the unique form.
6. The system of claim 1, further comprising an age group GUI element within the filter GUI element, the age group GUI element configured to receive a selection of the target age group.
7. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one attribute metadata stored in association with each of the plurality of form content components in the database.
8. A method comprising: storing, within a database coupled to a computer network, by a server comprising a computing device coupled to the computer network and including at least one processor executing instructions within memory, a plurality of form content components to be aggregated into a form content; receiving, by the server, from a user device coupled to the computer network: a first user input requesting a generation of a unique form; and a second user input selecting, from a form filter Graphical User Interface (GUI) element within a form content creation GUI, a target age group; updating, by the server, the form content creation GUI to display a list including at least one list item displaying at least one form content component selected from the plurality of form content components and associated with the target age group in the database; receiving, by the server, from the user device: a third user input selecting the at least one list item from the list; and a fourth user input requesting a calculation of a reliability value indicating a consistency of generating a particular result from the at least one form content component associated with the at least one list item selected; calculating, by the server, the reliability value by applying the at least one form content component, associated with the at least one list item selected, to a risk probability model function to determine the probability of a user failing to achieve an outcome associated with the at least one form content component selected; and transmitting, by the server, the reliability value to the user device for display.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: generating, by server, within the form content creation GUI: a form component list GUI element including the list of the at least one form content component; and a form component aggregation GUI element configured to receive and display a form content component selection from within the list; and transmitting, by the server, the form content creation GUI to the user device for display.
10. The method of claim 8 further comprising the steps of: generating, by the server, the filter GUI element within the form content creation GUI, the filter GUI element further comprising: a recipient GUI element within the filter GUI element, the recipient GUI element selecting a user that will utilize the unique form; and an age group GUI element within the filter GUI element, the age group GUI element configured to receive a selection of the target age group; and transmitting, by the server, the filter GUI element to the user device;
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising the steps of selecting, by the server, a plurality of previously created unique forms from the database; and generating, by the server, a form management GUI including: a form selection GUI element listing the plurality of previously created unique forms; and a unique form generation GUI element configured to receive the first user input requesting the generation of the unique form.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising the steps of, responsive to receiving the second user input: receiving a drag user input for the form content component selection for dragging the form content component selection from the form component list GUI; and receiving a drop user input for dropping the form content component selection into the form component aggregation GUI.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of storing, by the server within the database, at least one attribute metadata in association with each of the form content components in the database
14. A system comprising a server, comprising a computing device coupled to a computer network and including at least one processor executing instructions within memory that, when executed, cause the system to: store, within a database coupled to the computer network, a plurality of form content components to be aggregated into a form content; receive a first user input requesting a generation of a unique form; responsive to receiving the first user input: select at least one form content component from within the plurality of form content components in the database; generate a form content creation Graphical User Interface (GUI) comprising: a form component list GUI element including a list of the at least one form content component; and a form component aggregation GUI element configured to receive and display a form content component selection from within the list; transmit the form content creation GUI to a user device for display; receive, from the user device, a second user input comprising the form content component selection of at least one list element from within the list, for inclusion in the form content aggregation GUI element; update the form content aggregation GUI element to display the at least one list element; select, from the database, each of the at least one form content component in the plurality of form content components included in the form content aggregation GUI element; and generate the unique from including the at least one form content component in the plurality of form components included in the form content aggregation GUI element.
15. The system of claim 14, further comprising a filter GUI element within the form content creation GUI, the filter GUI element further comprising: a recipient GUI element within the filter GUI element, the recipient GUI element selecting a user that will utilize the unique form; and an age group GUI element within the filter GUI element, the age group GUI element configured to receive a selection of the target age group.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the server is further configured to: receive, from the user device, a third user input selecting at least one filter from the filter GUI element; select, from the database the at least one form content component within the plurality of form content components, according to the at least one filter selected; and update the form component list GUI element, inserting the at least one form content component, selected from the database, into the list;
17. The system of claim 15, further comprising a reliability GUI element within the form content creation GUI, the reliability GUI element configured to: receive, from a reliability calculation element within the reliability GUI element, a third user input requesting a calculation of a reliability of the form content component selection; transmit the third user input to the server; receive, from the server, a generated reliability display, including the reliability for the age group selection; and display the generated reliability display within the reliability GUI element.
18. The system of claim 14, further comprising a form management GUI, the form management GUI including: a form selection GUI element listing a plurality of previously created unique forms; and a unique form generation GUI element configured to receive the first user input requesting the generation of the unique form.
19. The system of claim 7, further comprising a functionality within the form content creation GUI wherein, responsive to receiving the second user input, the form content component selection is dragged from the form component list GUI and dropped into the form component aggregation GUI.
20. The system of claim 14, further comprising at least one attribute metadata stored in association with each of the form content components in the database
</claims>
</document>
