<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-02-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61F2/58,A61F2/70,A61F2/72
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOUCH BIONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MEIJER, ROBERTUS
NAZARPOUR, KIANOUSH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
47988743
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-MODAL UPPER LIMB PROSTHETIC DEVICE CONTROL USING MYOELECTRIC SIGNALS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods of operating a prosthesis having at least one moveable component and an electronic control device are provided, where the at least one moveable component has two or more operating modes and at least one operating parameter. The method comprises receiving at least one input control signal from the wearer of the prosthesis, comparing the at least one input control signal with an operating profile stored in the electronic control device in order to determine a desired operating mode and operating parameter, and instructing the moveable component to move in accordance with the desired operating mode and operating parameter. Prostheses are also provided, at least one such prosthesis comprising at least one moveable component and an electronic device operable to select both an operating mode of the at least one moveable component and at least one operating parameter of the at least one moveable component in response to an input command signal from the wearer of the prosthesis.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-45. (canceled)
46. A prosthetic or orthotic device (POD) comprising: a moveable digit; and memory storing an operating profile, wherein the operating profile comprises a plurality of ranges, each range of the plurality of ranges corresponding to a different combination of a respective hand gesture of the moveable digit and a magnitude of an operating parameter for the respective hand gesture; and a processor configured to: receive a plurality of input control signals from a plurality of electromyography (EMG) sensors; determine a single input command signal based at least in part on the plurality of input control signals; concurrently select a particular hand gesture and a particular magnitude of an operating parameter for the particular hand gesture based on a comparison of the single input command signal with the operating profile, wherein the particular hand gesture and the particular magnitude of the operating parameter are selected based on a particular range of the plurality of ranges that corresponds to the single input command signal; and instruct the moveable digit to perform a digit movement corresponding to the selected hand gesture at or with the selected magnitude of the operating parameter.
47. The POD of claim 46, wherein the operating parameter comprises at least one of speed, acceleration, deceleration, applied force, operating duration, amount of extension, amount of flexion, or angle of rotation associated with the particular hand gesture.
48. The POD of claim 46, wherein the plurality of input control signals comprises at least three control signals and wherein the plurality of EMG sensors comprises at least three EMG sensors.
49. The POD of claim 46, wherein the operating profile corresponds to at least three hand gestures.
50. The POD of claim 46, wherein the moveable digit comprises at least two moveable digits.
51. The POD of claim 46, wherein instructing the moveable digit to perform the digit movement causes the moveable digit to transition directly from a current hand gesture to the selected hand gesture.
52. The POD of claim 46, wherein the selected hand gesture comprises at least one of open, close, pinch, point, grasp or wave.
53. The POD of claim 46, wherein the processor is further configured to communicate a feedback signal to a wearer of the POD, the feedback signal indicative of the selected hand gesture and the selected magnitude of the operating parameter.
54. The POD of claim 53, wherein the feedback signal is communicated to the wearer of the POD visually, kinaesthetically, aurally or neurally.
55. The POD of claim 53, wherein the feedback signal is communicated non-invasively to the wearer of the POD via electro-tactile or vibro-tactile stimulation of skin of the wearer of the POD.
56. A prosthetic or orthotic device (POD) comprising: a moveable digit; and memory storing an operating profile, wherein the operating profile comprises a plurality of ranges, each range of the plurality of ranges corresponding to a different combination of a particular hand gesture of the moveable digit of the POD and a magnitude of an operating parameter of the particular hand gesture; and a processor configured to: receive a first input control signal from a first EMG sensor, receive a second input control signal from a second EMG sensor, identify a range of the plurality of ranges of the operating profile that corresponds to both the first input control signal and the second input control signal, determine a selected hand gesture based on the identified range of the operating profile, determine a selected magnitude of the operating parameter based on the identified range of the operating profile, and cause the moveable digit to transition to the selected hand gesture at or with the selected magnitude of the operating parameter.
57. The POD of claim 56, wherein the operating parameter comprises at least one of speed, acceleration, deceleration, applied force, operating duration, amount of extension, amount of flexion, or angle of rotation associated with the particular hand gesture.
58. The POD of claim 56, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive a third input control signal from a third EMG sensor, wherein to identify the range, the processor is further configured to identify a range that corresponds to the first input control signal, the second input control signal, and the third input control signal.
59. The POD of claim 56, wherein the operating profile corresponds to at least three hand gestures.
60. The POD of claim 56, wherein the moveable digit comprises at least two moveable digits.
61. The POD of claim 56, wherein the selected hand gesture comprises at least one of open, close, pinch, point, grasp or wave.
62. A method of operating a prosthetic or orthotic device (POD) that includes a moveable digit, the method comprising: receiving a plurality of input control signals from a plurality of electromyography (EMG) sensors; determining a single input command signal based at least in part on the plurality of input control signals; concurrently selecting a particular hand gesture and a particular magnitude of an operating parameter for the particular hand gesture based on a comparison of the single input command signal with an operating profile, wherein the operating profile comprises a plurality of ranges, each range of the plurality of ranges corresponding to a different combination of a respective hand gesture of the moveable digit of the POD and a magnitude of an operating parameter for the respective hand gesture, and wherein the particular hand gesture and the particular magnitude of an operating parameter are selected based on a particular range of the plurality of ranges that corresponds to the single input command signal; and instructing the moveable digit to perform a digit movement corresponding to the selected hand gesture at or with the selected magnitude of the operating parameter.
63. The method of claim 62, wherein the operating parameter comprises at least one of speed, acceleration, deceleration, applied force, operating duration, amount of extension, amount of flexion, or angle of rotation associated with the particular hand gesture.
64. The method of claim 62, wherein said instructing the moveable digit to perform the digit movement causes the moveable digit to transition directly from a current hand gesture to the selected hand gesture.
65. The method of claim 62, wherein the selected hand gesture comprises at least one of open, close, pinch, point, grasp or wave.
</claims>
</document>
