<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01P5/18,H01Q13/24,H01Q21/22,H04B17/309,H04B7/0413
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HENRY, PAUL SHALA
VANNUCCI, GIOVANNI
RAPPAPORT, HAROLD LEE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70849467
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR LAUNCHING GUIDED ELECTROMAGNETIC WAVES WITH CHANNEL FEEDBACK
</title>

<abstract>
In accordance with one or more embodiments, a transceiver is configured to generate a first signal in response to receiving a first guided electromagnetic wave from a remote system via a launcher. A controller is configured to generate a channel quality indicator in response to the first signal. The transceiver is further configured to generate a second signal that conveys the channel quality indicator. The launcher, responsive to the second signal, is further configured to launch a second guided electromagnetic wave that conveys the channel quality indicator to the remote system, wherein the second guided electromagnetic wave is guided by the transmission medium and propagates along the transmission medium.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a launcher configured to receive a first guided electromagnetic wave from a remote system that is guided by a transmission medium and propagates along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path; a transceiver configured to generate a first signal in response to receiving the first guided electromagnetic wave; and a controller configured to generate a channel quality indicator in response to the first signal; wherein the transceiver is further configured to generate a second signal that conveys the channel quality indicator; and wherein the launcher, responsive to the second signal, is further configured to launch a second guided electromagnetic wave that conveys the channel quality indicator to the remote system, wherein the second guided electromagnetic wave is guided by the transmission medium and propagates along the transmission medium.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the launcher includes an array of antennas having an aperture, and wherein the controller adjusts the aperture of the array of antennas responsive to the channel quality indicator.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the array of antennas comprises an array of polyrod antennas.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the array of polyrod antennas each include a tapered dielectric rod.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller adjusts at least one transmit parameter of the system based on the channel quality indicator.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the at least one transmit parameter includes a transmit power of the transceiver, and wherein the controller adjusts the transmit power of the transceiver responsive to the channel quality indicator.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the launcher includes an array of antennas and wherein the at least one transmit parameter includes a selected multi-input multi-output (MIMO) technique of the transceiver, and wherein the controller selects the selected MIMO technique responsive to the channel quality indicator.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein the at least one transmit parameter includes an adjustable impedance of an adjustable impedance matching circuit, and wherein the controller adjusts the adjustable impedance of the adjustable impedance matching matching circuit responsive to the channel quality indicator.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the first guided electromagnetic wave propagates along the transmission medium via a plurality of guided wave modes, wherein each of the plurality of guided wave modes has a corresponding velocity and a corresponding dispersion.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the channel quality indicator is generated by determining an impulse response.
11. A method comprising: receiving, via a launcher, a first guided electromagnetic wave from a remote system that is guided by a transmission medium and propagates along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path; generating, via a transceiver, a first signal in response to receiving the first guided electromagnetic wave; generating, via a controller, a channel quality indicator in response to the first signal; generating, via the transceiver, a second signal that conveys the channel quality indicator; and launching, via the launcher, a second guided electromagnetic wave that conveys the channel quality indicator to the remote system, wherein the second guided electromagnetic wave is guided by the transmission medium and propagates along the transmission medium.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the launcher includes an array of antennas having an aperture, and wherein the controller adjusts the aperture of the array of antennas responsive to the channel quality indicator.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the array of antennas comprises an array of polyrod antennas.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the controller adjusts at least one transmit parameter of the system based on the channel quality indicator.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the at least one transmit parameter includes a transmit power of the transceiver, and wherein the controller adjusts the transmit power of the transceiver responsive to the channel quality indicator.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the launcher includes an array of antennas and wherein the at least one transmit parameter includes a selected multi-input multi-output (MIMO) technique of the transceiver, and wherein the controller selects the selected MIMO technique responsive to the channel quality indicator.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the at least one transmit parameter includes an adjustable impedance of an adjustable impedance matching circuit, and wherein the controller adjusts the adjustable impedance of the adjustable impedance matching matching circuit responsive to the channel quality indicator.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein the first guided electromagnetic wave propagates along the transmission medium via a plurality of guided wave modes, wherein each of the plurality of guided wave modes has a corresponding velocity and a corresponding dispersion.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein the channel quality indicator is generated by determining an impulse response.
20. A system comprising: means for receiving a first guided electromagnetic wave from a remote system that is guided by a transmission medium and propagates along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path; means for generating a first signal in response to receiving the first guided electromagnetic wave; and means for generating a channel quality indicator by determining an impulse function; means for generating a second signal that conveys the channel quality indicator; and means for launching a second guided electromagnetic wave that conveys the channel quality indicator to the remote system, wherein the second guided electromagnetic wave is guided by the transmission medium and propagates along the transmission medium.
</claims>
</document>
