<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0482,G09B19/00,G09B9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DAEGU GYEONGBUK INSTITUTE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
AN, JINUNG
JIN, SANGHYEON
LEE, SEUNGHYUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63792364
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SIMULATOR AND SIMULATION SYSTEM FOR BRAIN TRAINING BASED ON BEHAVIOR MODELING
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are a simulator and a simulation system for brain training. The brain training simulator comprises: a communication unit for sending training content to a training apparatus so that the content is displayed on the training apparatus; an input unit for acquiring brain signals of a user on the basis of a non-invasive brain activation measurement method; and a control unit for determining the intention of the user on the basis of the acquired brain signal data and preset intention data. The control unit determines, as the intention of the user, the preset intention data matched with the brain signal data, controls an operation of the training apparatus on the basis of the determined intention of the user, controls the playback of the training content so as to correspond to the operation of the training apparatus, and provides the user with feedback for inducing brain activation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A brain training simulator comprising: a communication unit configured to transmit a training content to a training apparatus for display in the training apparatus; an input unit configured to acquire a brain signal of a user based on a non-evasive brain activation measurement method; and a control unit configured to determine user intention based on the acquired brain signal data and a preset intention data, wherein the control unit determines a preset intention data matched with the brain signal data as the user intention, controls an operation of the training apparatus based on the determined user intention, controls a playback of the training content to correspond to the operation of the training apparatus, and provides feedback for inducing brain activation to the user.
2. The brain training simulator according to claim 1, wherein the control unit acquires information on a training state of the user, determines whether to change a training mode based on the acquired training state information, and changes an operation mode of a training content according to the changed training mode to induce a brain activation of the user.
3. The brain training simulator according to claim 2, wherein the control unit stores the acquired training state information of the user in a profile corresponding to respective users, and stores the profile in an entire database of patient group which includes the user.
4. The brain training simulator according to claim 3, wherein the control unit generates an analysis data analyzing the data of the acquired brain signal of the user in real-time, and diagnose a disease of the user based on the generated analysis data and the entire database.
5. The brain training simulator according to claim 2, further comprising: an output unit configured to output at least one from the determined user intention, the training state information and information on the change of training mode.
6. The brain training simulator according to claim 5, wherein the output unit outputs at least one from training state information to induce brain activation of the user, a message for focusing on training, or an alarm for improving training score as feedback information for inducing a brain activation of the user.
7. The brain training simulator according to claim 5, wherein the output unit outputs at least one from comprehensive information and information for dangerous situations based on the training state information according to the operation of the training apparatus as feedback information on the training state.
8. The brain training simulator according to claim 5, wherein the training state information includes at least one from a training distance, a training time, a number of times walking, a walking pattern, a number of times of intention recognition, a training distance based on an intention recognition, a training time based on the intention recognition, brain activation state information, user biometric information, a brain signal, and intention recognition information.
9. The brain training simulator according to claim 5, wherein the control unit determines the user intention consecutively and controls the training apparatus based on the determined consecutive intention of the user.
10. The brain training simulator according to claim 9, wherein the control unit removes noise through a preprocessing method and a wavelet transform of the acquired brain signal data, and determines the consecutive intention of the user based on an artificial intelligence based machine learning method.
11. The brain training simulator according to claim 9, wherein the control unit, based on the consecutive intention of the user, controls at least one from a speed, an intensity, and time of the training apparatus, a direction change within the training content, and an operation mode change of the training apparatus while the training apparatus is in operation.
12. The brain training simulator according to claim 11, wherein the control unit controls an operation of the training apparatus according to the consecutive intention of the user based on an intention recognition state transition diagram.
13. The brain training simulator according to claim 1, wherein the control unit provides the user with an operation of a virtual avatar within the training content so that the user models a behavior as a feedback to induce a brain activation, and operates the virtual avatar in accordance with the determined user intention.
14. The brain training simulator according to claim 1, wherein the acquired brain signal includes at least one from a metabolism related to exercise management of a cerebral cortex and information on an oxygen concentration of hemoglobin.
15. A brain training simulation system comprising: a brain training simulator configured to a transmit training content to a training apparatus for display in the training apparatus, acquire a brain signal of a user based on a non-evasive brain activation measurement method, and determine user intention based on the acquired brain signal data and a preset intention data; and a training apparatus configured to display the received training content from the brain training simulator and operate according to a control of the brain training simulator, wherein the brain training simulator determines a preset intention data matched with the brain signal data as the user intention, controls an operation of the training apparatus based on the determined user intention, controls a playback of the training content to correspond to the operation of the of the training apparatus, and provides feedback for inducing brain activation to the user. The rehabilitation training content suggesting unit 123-2 uses voice or text
</claims>
</document>
