<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-03-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/60,G16H15/00,G16H40/20,G16H40/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Ginsburg, Leonard H.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Ginsburg, Leonard H.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72422622
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA COMMAND CENTER VISUAL DISPLAY SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A data command center visual display system presents dynamic data to a display screen. The command center visual display system includes a plurality of adjustable display panels configured to display predetermined combinations of patient identification information and patient medical information. A patient flowsheet is created that includes a table that presents the patient's medical information by medical service, medical procedure, diagnostic test, medication, and diagnosis that is prescribed, ordered, performed, or selected during respective encounters with at least one medical provider. In response to selection by a user, at least two adjustable display panels containing medical information relating to one or more patients in the patient flowsheet are presented to the display in a single view. The user may edit or move the medical information or the patient identification information within the display panels while the display panels are simultaneously open.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data command center visual display system that displays data on a display screen, comprising: a patient database that stores patient identification information and patient medical information; a computer readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon; and a processor that executes said instructions, said instructions when executed causing the processor to perform operations including: creating adjustable display panels configured to display predetermined combinations of said patient identification information and patient medical information; creating a patient flowsheet including a table that presents the patient's medical information by at least one of medical service, medical procedure, diagnostic test, medication, and diagnosis that is prescribed, ordered, performed, or selected during respective encounters with at least one medical provider; in response to selection by a user of the visual display system, presenting at least two of the adjustable display panels containing medical information relating to one or more patients in the patient flowsheet, enabling the user to edit or move the medical information or the patient identification information within the at least two display panels while the at least two display panels are simultaneously open; and presenting the at least two adjustable display panels and the patient flowsheet to the display screen in a single view.
2. The display system of claim 1, wherein the table in the patient flowsheet comprises a summary report of medical conditions of a plurality of patients, the instructions further including instructions that when executed cause the processor to perform operations including enabling the user to at least one of order and schedule at least one of a medical service, medical procedure, diagnostic test, medication, and diagnosis for one or more patients from the table.
3. The display system of claim 1, wherein the table in the patient flowsheet comprises a summary row that summarizes at least one of a medical service, a medical procedure, a diagnostic test, a medication, and a diagnosis that has been provided to the patient in a previous encounter, the instructions further including instructions that when executed cause the processor to perform operations including enabling the user to select medical information corresponding to at least one of the summarized medical service, medical procedure, diagnostic test, medication, or diagnosis from the table for viewing.
4. The display system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further include instructions that when executed cause the processor to perform operations including selectively activating portions of the table to instruct the user that actions should be taken to update the medical information or the patient identification information in the table based on at least one of medical service, medical procedure, diagnostic test, medication, and diagnosis that has previously been prescribed, ordered, performed, or selected during a current or previous encounter with the at least one medical provider.
5. The display system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further include instructions that when executed cause the processor to perform operations including performing a search of the patient database and creating a patient flowsheet for those patients that match one or more search criteria.
6. A method of displaying data on a display screen, comprising: creating adjustable display panels configured to display predetermined combinations of patient identification information and patient medical information; creating a patient flowsheet including a table that presents the patient's medical information by at least one of medical service, medical procedure, diagnostic test, medication, and diagnosis that is prescribed, ordered, performed, or selected during respective encounters with at least one medical provider; in response to selection by a user of the visual display system, presenting at least two of the adjustable display panels containing medical information relating to one or more patients in the patient flowsheet, enabling the user to edit or move the medical information or the patient identification information within the at least two display panels while the at least two display panels are simultaneously open; and presenting the at least two adjustable display panels and the patient flowsheet to the display screen in a single view.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the table in the patient flowsheet comprises a summary report of medical conditions of a plurality of patients, further comprising enabling the user to at least one of order and schedule at least one of a medical service, medical procedure, diagnostic test, medication, and diagnosis for one or more patients from the table.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the table in the patient flowsheet comprises a summary row that summarizes at least one of a medical service, a medical procedure, a diagnostic test, a medication, and a diagnosis that has been provided to the patient in a previous encounter, further comprising enabling the user to select medical information corresponding to at least one of the summarized medical service, medical procedure, diagnostic test, medication, or diagnosis from the table for viewing.
9. The method of claim 6, further comprising selectively activating portions of the table to instruct the user that actions should be taken to update the medical information or the patient identification information in the table based on at least one of medical service, medical procedure, diagnostic test, medication, and diagnosis that has previously been prescribed, ordered, performed, or selected during a current or previous encounter with the at least one medical provider.
10. The method of claim 6, further comprising performing a search of the patient database and creating a patient flowsheet for those patients that match one or more search criteria.
</claims>
</document>
