<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/063,G06N3/08,H01G9/00,H01G9/028,H01G9/042,H01G9/22,H01G9/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHOU, CHONGWU
LIU, QINGZHOU
CAO, XUAN
LIU, YIHANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74103263
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FULLY-PRINTED ALL-SOLID-STATE ORGANIC FLEXIBLE ARTIFICIAL SYNAPSE FOR NEUROMORPHIC COMPUTING
</title>

<abstract>
The experimental realization of a non-volatile artificial synapse using organic polymers in a scalable fabrication process is provided. The three-terminal electrochemical neuromorphic device successfully emulates the key features of biological synapses: long-term potentiation/depression, spike-timing-dependent plasticity learning rule, paired-pulse facilitation, and ultralow energy consumption. The artificial synapse network exhibits excellent endurance against bending tests and enables a direct emulation of logic gates, which shows the feasibility of using them in futuristic hierarchical neural networks. Based on the demonstration of 100 distinct, non-volatile conductance states, high accuracy in pattern recognition and face classification neural network simulations is achieved.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A neuromorphic device comprising: a substrate; a patterned electrical contact disposed on the substrate, the patterned electrical contact defining a presynaptic contact section, a first post-synaptic contact section, and a second post-synaptic contact section, wherein the presynaptic contact section, the first post-synaptic contact section, and the second post-synaptic contact section are electrically separated from each other, a patterned layer of an electrically conductive polymer having a first polymeric section disposed over a portion of the presynaptic contact section and a second polymeric section disposed over the first post-synaptic contact section and the second post-synaptic contact section, the electrically conductive polymer having an electrical conductivity that can be tuned by localization or delocalization of electrons therein, the first polymeric section and the second polymeric section being separated to define a gap; and a polyelectrolyte layer disposed over the both the first polymeric section and the second polymeric section and at least partially filling the gap, wherein when no voltage is applied to the presynaptic contact section the neuromorphic device is in a low electrical conductivity state and when a positive voltage is applied to the presynaptic contact section the neuromorphic device switches to a high electrical conductivity state.
2. The neuromorphic device of claim 1 wherein the polyelectrolyte layer is polydiallyldimethyl-ammonium chloride.
3. The neuromorphic device of claim 1 wherein the patterned layer of an electrically conductive polymer is a polymeric salt.
4. The neuromorphic device of claim 1 wherein the patterned layer of an electrically conductive polymer is poly(3,4-ethylene dioxythiophene):polystyrene sulfonate.
5. The neuromorphic device of claim 1 wherein the substrate is a flexible polymeric substrate.
6. The neuromorphic device of claim 1 wherein a negative voltage applied to the presynaptic contact section causes the neuromorphic device to return to the low electrical conductivity state after a positive voltage has been applied.
7. An array of neuromorphic devices, each neuromorphic device comprising: a substrate; a patterned electrical contact disposed on the substrate, the patterned electrical contact defining a presynaptic contact section, a first post-synaptic contact section, and a second post-synaptic contact section, wherein the presynaptic contact section, the first post-synaptic contact section, and the second post-synaptic contact section are electrically separated from each other, a patterned layer of an electrically conductive polymer having a first polymeric section disposed over a portion of the presynaptic contact section and a second polymeric section disposed over the first post-synaptic contact section and the second post-synaptic contact section, the electrically conductive polymer having an electrical conductivity that can be tuned by localization or delocalization of electrons therein, the first polymeric section and the second polymeric section being separated to define a gap; and a polyelectrolyte layer disposed over the both the first polymeric section and the second polymeric section and at least partially filling the gap, wherein when no voltage is applied to the presynaptic contact section the neuromorphic device is in a low electrical conductivity state and when a positive voltage is applied to the presynaptic contact section the neuromorphic device switches to a high electrical conductivity state.
8. The array of neuromorphic devices of claim 7 wherein a subset of the array of neuromorphic devices are connected in parallel.
9. The array of neuromorphic devices of claim 7 wherein a subset of the array of neuromorphic devices are connected in series.
10. The array of neuromorphic devices of claim 7 wherein the polyelectrolyte layer is polydiallyldimethyl-ammonium chloride.
11. The array of neuromorphic devices of claim 7 wherein the patterned layer of an electrically conductive polymer is a polymeric salt.
12. The array of neuromorphic devices of claim 7 wherein the patterned layer of an electrically conductive polymer is poly(3,4-ethylene dioxythiophene):polystyrene sulfonate.
13. The array of neuromorphic devices of claim 7 wherein the substrate is a flexible polymeric substrate.
14. A method for making a neuromorphic device, the method comprising: screen-printing a patterned electrical contact on a substrate, wherein the patterned electrical contact defines a presynaptic contact section, a first post-synaptic contact section, and a second post-synaptic contact section and wherein the presynaptic contact section, the first post-synaptic contact section, and the second post-synaptic contact section are electrically separated from each other; screen-printing a patterned layer of an electrically conductive polymer such that a first polymeric section is screen-printed over a portion of the presynaptic contact section and a second polymeric section is screen printed over the first post-synaptic contact section and the second post-synaptic contact section, the first polymeric section and the second polymeric section being separated to define a gap; and screen-printing a polyelectrolyte layer over the both the first polymeric section and the second polymeric section wherein the gap is at least partially filled.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the polyelectrolyte layer is polydiallyldimethyl-ammonium chloride.
16. The method of claim 14 wherein the patterned layer of an electrically conductive polymer is a polymeric salt.
17. The method of claim 14 wherein the patterned layer of an electrically conductive polymer is poly(3,4-ethylene dioxythiophene):polystyrene sulfonate.
18. The method of claim 14 wherein the substrate is a flexible polymeric substrate.
19. The method of claim 14 further comprising forming an array of neuromorphic devices.
</claims>
</document>
