<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N15/02,G01N15/12,G01N15/14,G01N33/483
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RHIZLAB HEALTH
RUTGERS STATE UNIVERSITY NEW JERSEY
</assignee>

<inventors>
FURNITUREWALLA, ABBAS
JAVANMARD, MEHDI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70280549
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WEARABLE IMPEDANCE CYTOMETER
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure provides an impedance cytometer which includes a carrier that can be attached to a living being, with a biosensor mounted thereto. The bio sensor includes a microfluidic flow channel, formed in the carrier, and an impedance circuit. The microfluidic flow channel accommodates passage of a particle therethrough. The impedance circuit, connected to the microfluidic flow channel, includes a signal generator that produces a high-frequency drive signal applied to the flow channel to produce a biosensor output signal having high-frequency variation resulting from the drive signal and low-frequency variation resulting from impedance variation within the flow channel during the particle's passage. A lock-in amplifier is disposed to (i) amplify the bio sensor output signal, (ii) mix the amplified signal with the drive signal, and (iii) frequency-filter the mixed, amplified signal to output an impedance signal representing the low-frequency impedance variation resulting from the passage of the particle. Embodiments enable wearable, personalized cytometry.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An impedance cytometer comprising: a carrier configured to be attached to a living being; a biosensor mounted to the carrier, the bio sensor comprising: a microfluidic flow channel formed therein, wherein the microfluidic flow channel is structured to accommodate passage of a particle therethrough; and an impedance circuit, connected to the microfluidic flow channel, wherein the impedance circuit includes a signal generator that produces a high-frequency drive signal that is applied to the microfluidic flow channel to produce thereby a biosensor output signal, and wherein the impedance circuit delivers a biosensor output signal having a high-frequency variation resulting from application of the high-frequency drive signal to the microfluidic flow channel, the biosensor output signal further having a low-frequency variation resulting from an impedance variation within the microfluidic flow channel during the passage of the particle therethrough; and a lock-in amplifier disposed to receive the biosensor output signal, wherein the lock-in amplifier: amplifies the biosensor output signal, mixes the amplified biosensor output signal with the high-frequency drive signal, and frequency-filters the mixed, amplified bio sensor output signal to output an impedance signal representing the low-frequency impedance variation resulting from the passage of the particle through the microfluidic channel.
2. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, wherein the microfluidic flow channel is removably mounted in the bio sensor.
3. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, wherein the microfluidic flow channel comprises a main channel and a side channel, the side channel being attached to the main channel to divert a portion of the passage of the particle in the main channel.
4. The impedance cytometer of claim 3, wherein the main channel has a larger width than the side channel.
5. The impedance cytometer of claim 3, wherein the side channel is attached to the main channel vertically.
6. The impedance cytometer of claim 3, wherein the concentration of the particles in the side channel is about 2000 folds or less than the concentration of the particles in the main channel, thereby the particles in the side channel are subject to analysis without dilution.
7. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, wherein the carrier is further configured to be removably attached to the living being via any one of: a leg band, an armband, a wristband, a waistband, and a necklace.
8. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, wherein the carrier is a flexible printed circuit board (PCB).
9. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, wherein the lock-in amplifier comprises an amplifier, a mixer, and a frequency filter.
10. The impedance cytometer of claim 9, wherein the lock-in amplifier analyzes different time portions of the bio sensor output signal using respective frequencies for the high-frequency drive signal and corresponding respective block and pass frequencies for the frequency filter.
11. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, wherein the carrier is a complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) chip.
12. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, wherein the microfluidic flow channel is formed of polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS).
13. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, wherein the particle is a cell.
14. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, wherein the particle is a bacterium, a virus, a protein, a microparticle, a nanoparticle, a nucleic acid, a biomarker, or a bead with a biological material attached thereto.
15. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, wherein the microfluidic flow channel is configured to receive the particle suspended in a bodily fluid or a buffer solution.
16. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, wherein the microfluidic flow channel is configured to receive the particle selected from the group consisting of red blood cell, white blood cell, platelet, hematocrit, hemoglobin, neutrophil, lymphocyte, microbial, and a combination thereof.
17. The impedance cytometer of claim 15, wherein the bodily fluid is blood.
18. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, wherein the signal generator is further configured to produce the high-frequency drive signal with a plurality of high frequencies.
19. The impedance cytometer of claim 18, wherein the plurality of high frequencies comprises a frequency between about 100 kHz and about 20 MHz.
20. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, wherein the lock-in amplifier is further configured to frequency-filter the mixed, amplified bio sensor output signal with a low-pass filter cutoff frequency larger than an inverse of a transit time of the particle to traverse an electric field created by the high-frequency drive signal in the microfluidic flow channel.
21. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, further comprising a DC blocker configured to remove a DC baseline from the impedance signal and an amplifier configured to amplify the impedance signal with the DC baseline removed.
22. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, further comprising an analog-to-digital converter (ADC) configured to output a digitized form of the impedance signal.
23. The impedance cytometer of claim 22, wherein the ADC has 10 bits or fewer.
24. The impedance cytometer of claim 22, further including a wired or wireless transmission module configured to transmit the digitized form of the impedance signal.
25. An impedance cytometer system comprising the impedance cytometer of claim 24, further comprising: (a) a microprocessor configured to receive and analyze the digitized form of the impedance signal and (b) a display configured to show a result of the analysis of the impedance signal.
26. The impedance cytometer system of claim 25, wherein the result of the analysis includes a particle count, an identification of the particle, a characterization of the particle, or an indication of a health condition of the living being.
27. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, further comprising: (a) a microprocessor mounted to the carrier, the microprocessor configured to receive and analyze a digitized form of the impedance signal; and (2) a display mounted to the carrier and configured to show a result of the analysis of the impedance signal.
28. The impedance cytometer of claim 1, wherein the microfluidic flow channel is configured to receive the particle via a catheter, a needle, or an array of needles connected to the living being.
29. A method for identifying or counting particles in a sample from a subject, comprising: obtaining from a subject a sample comprising particles, through a carrier configured to be attached to a subject; analyzing the sample by the impedance cytometer of claim 1; and determining a type or a count of the particles based on the outputted impedance signal representing the low-frequency impedance variation resulting from the passage of the particle through the microfluidic channel.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the microfluidic flow channel is removably mounted in the biosensor.
31. The method of claim 29, wherein the microfluidic flow channel comprises a main channel and a side channel, the side channel being attached to the main channel to divert a portion of the passage of the particle in the main channel.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein the main channel has a larger width than the side channel.
33. The method of claim 29, wherein the carrier is further configured to be removably attached to the subject via any one of: a leg band, an armband, a wristband, a waistband, and a necklace.
34. The method of claim 29, wherein the lock-in amplifier analyzes different time portions of the biosensor output signal using respective frequencies for the high-frequency drive signal and corresponding respective block and pass frequencies for the frequency filter.
35. The method of claim 29, wherein the lock-in amplifier is further configured to frequency-filter the mixed, amplified bio sensor output signal with a low-pass filter cutoff frequency larger than an inverse of a transit time of the particle to traverse an electric field created by the high-frequency drive signal in the microfluidic flow channel.
36. The method of claim 29, wherein the impedance cytometer further comprises a DC blocker configured to remove a DC baseline from the impedance signal and an amplifier configured to amplify the impedance signal with the DC baseline removed.
37. The method of claim 29, wherein the impedance cytometer further comprises an analog-to-digital converter (ADC) configured to output a digitized form of the impedance signal.
</claims>
</document>
