<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61P35/04,C07K16/28,G01N33/574
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
FERRARI DE ANDRADE, LUCAS
WUCHERPFENNING, KAI W.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64397035
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR INHIBITION OF MICA/B SHEDDING
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention is based, in part, on the discovery of monoclonal antibodies, and antigen-binding fragments thereof, that specifically bind to MICA/B α3 domain, as well as immunoglobulins, polypeptides, nucleic acids thereof, and methods of using such antibodies for diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic purposes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, wherein the monoclonal antibody comprises: a) a heavy chain sequence with at least about 95% identity to a heavy chain sequence selected from the group consisting of the sequences listed in Table 2; and/or b) a light chain sequence with at least about 95% identity to a light chain sequence selected from the group consisting of the sequences listed in Table 2.
2. A monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, wherein the monoclonal antibody comprises: a) a heavy chain CDR sequence with at least about 95% identity to a heavy chain CDR sequence selected from the group consisting of the sequences listed in Table 2; and/or b) a light chain CDR sequence with at least about 95% identity to a light chain CDR sequence selected from the group consisting of the sequences listed in Table 2.
3. A monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, wherein the monoclonal antibody comprises: a) a heavy chain sequence selected from the group consisting of the sequences listed in Table 2; and/or b) a light chain sequence selected from the group consisting of the sequences listed in Table 2.
4. A monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, wherein the monoclonal antibody comprises: a) a heavy chain CDR sequence selected from the group consisting of the sequences listed in Table 2; and/or b) a light chain CDR sequence selected from the group consisting the sequences listed in Table 2.
5. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, is chimeric, humanized, composite, murine, or human.
6. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, is detectably labeled, comprises an effector domain, comprises an Fc domain, and/or is selected from the group consisting of Fv, Fav, F(ab′)2), Fab′, dsFv, scFv, sc(Fv)2, and diabodies fragments.
7. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, inhibits the shedding of MICA and/or MICB.
8. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, increases the cell surface density of MICA and/or MICB.
9. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of claim 8, wherein the cell is a cancer cell.
10. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, reduces serum concentrations of shed MICA and/or MICB.
11. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, restores immune activation by stress molecules that activate cytotoxic lymphocytes.
12. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-11, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, enhances the tumor immunity mediated by the cytotoxic lymphocytes.
13. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-12, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, enhances the tumor immunity through activation of NKG2D receptor and/or CD16 Fc receptor on the cytotoxic lymphocytes.
14. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 11-13, wherein the cytotoxic lymphocytes are NK cells or macrophages.
15. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-14, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, specifically binds MICA α3 domain and/or MICB α3 domain.
16. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-15, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, does not interfere with NKG2D binding to MICA and/or MICB.
17. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-16, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, does not bind to Fc receptors.
18. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-16, wherein the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, binds to one or more FcγRs.
19. The monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of claim 18, wherein the FcγRs are activating or inhibitory FcγRs.
20. An immunoglobulin heavy and/or light chain selected from the group consisting of immunoglobulin heavy and light chain sequences listed in Table 2.
21. An isolated nucleic acid molecule that hybridizes, under stringent conditions, with the complement of a nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide selected from the group consisting of polypeptide sequences listed in Table 2, or a sequence with at least about 95% homology to a nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide selected from the group consisting of the polypeptide sequences listed in Table 2.
22. A vector comprising the isolated nucleic acid of claim 21.
23. A host cell which comprises the isolated nucleic acid of claim 21, comprises the vector of claim 22, expresses the antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, of any one of claims 1-19.
24. A device or kit comprising at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, according to any one of claims 1-19, said device or kit optionally comprising a label to detect the at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, or a complex comprising the monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof.
25. A composition comprising at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, according to any one of claims 1-19, and a carrier.
26. A method of producing at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, according to any one of claims 1-19, which method comprises the steps of: (i) culturing a transformed host cell which has been transformed by a nucleic acid comprising a sequence encoding at least one monoclonal antibody according to any one of claims 1-19 under conditions suitable to allow expression of said monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof; and (ii) recovering the expressed monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof.
27. An immune-conjugate comprising at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, according to any one of claims 1-19, linked to an agent.
28. The immune-conjugate of claim 27, wherein the agent is a cytotoxic agent.
29. The immune-conjugate of claim 28, wherein the cytotoxic agent is selected from the group consisting of a chemotherapeutic agent, a biologic agent, a toxin, and a radioactive isotope.
30. A method of stimulating an antigen-specific T cell response comprising contacting the T-cell with at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, according to any one of claims 1-19, such that an antigen-specific T cell response is stimulated.
31. A method of detecting the presence or level of an MICA and/or MICB polypeptide comprising obtaining a sample and detecting said polypeptide in the sample by use of at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, according to any one of claims 1-19.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein the at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, forms a complex with an MICA and/or MICB polypeptide and the complex is detected in the form of an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), radioimmune assay (MA), immunochemically, Western blot, or using an intracellular flow assay.
33. A method for monitoring the progression of a disorder associated with aberrant MICA and/or MICB expression in a subject, the method comprising: a) detecting in a subject sample at a first point in time the level of MICA and/or MICB using at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, according to any one of claims 1-19; b) repeating step a) at a subsequent point in time; and c) comparing the level of MICA and/or MICB detected in steps a) and b) to monitor the progression of the disorder in the subject.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein between the first point in time and the subsequent point in time, the subject has undergone treatment to ameliorate the disorder.
35. A method for predicting the clinical outcome of a subject afflicted with a disorder associated with aberrant MICA and/or MICB expression, the method comprising: a) determining the level of MICA and/or MICB in a subject sample using at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, according to any one of claims 1-19; b) determining the level of MICA and/or MICB in a sample from a control subject having a good clinical outcome using the at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof; and c) comparing the level of MICA and/or MICB in the subject sample and in the sample from the control subject; wherein a significantly lower level of MICA and/or MICB in the subject sample as compared to the level in the sample from the control subject is an indication that the subject has a poor clinical outcome.
36. A method of assessing the efficacy of a therapy for a disorder associated with aberrant MICA and/or MICB expression in a subject, the method comprising: a) determining the level of MICA and/or MICB using at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, according to any one of claims 1-19, in a first sample obtained from the subject prior to providing at least a portion of the therapy to the subject, and b) determining the level of MICA and/or MICB in a second sample obtained from the subject following provision of the portion of the therapy, wherein a significantly higher level of MICA and/or MICB in the second sample, relative to the first sample, is an indication that the therapy is efficacious for inhibiting the disorder in the subject.
37. A method of assessing the efficacy of a test compound for inhibiting a disorder associated with aberrant MICA and/or MICB expression in a subject, the method comprising: a) determining the level of MICA and/or MICB using at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, according to any one of claims 1-19, in a first sample obtained from the subject and exposed to the test compound; and b) determining the level of MICA and/or MICB in a second sample obtained from the subject, wherein the second sample is not exposed to the test compound, and a significantly higher level of MICA and/or MICB, relative to the second sample, is an indication that the test compound is efficacious for inhibiting the disorder in the subject.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein the first and second samples are portions of a single sample obtained from the subject or portions of pooled samples obtained from the subject.
39. The method of any one of claims 33-38, wherein the disorder is a cancer.
40. The method of claim 39, wherein the cancer is selected from the group consisting of bladder cancer, breast cancer, uterine/cervical cancer, ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, testicular cancer, esophageal cancer, gastrointestinal cancer, pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, colon cancer, kidney cancer, head and neck cancer, lung cancer, stomach cancer, germ cell cancer, bone cancer, liver cancer, thyroid cancer, skin cancer, neoplasm of the central nervous system, lymphoma, leukemia, myeloma, sarcoma, and virus-related cancer.
41. The method of any one of claims 31-40, wherein the sample comprises cells, serum, peritumoral tissue, and/or intratumoral tissue obtained from the subject.
42. The method of claim 35, wherein said significantly lower level of MICA and/or MICB comprises an at least twenty percent decrease between the level of MICA and/or MICB in the subject sample relative to the normal level of MICA and/or MICB in the sample from the control subject.
43. The method of any one of claims 36-41, wherein said significantly higher level of MICA and/or MICB comprises an at least twenty percent increase of the level of MICA and/or MICB.
44. The method of any one of claims 33-43, wherein the subject is a human.
45. A method of treating a subject afflicted with cancer comprising administering to the subject at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, according to any one of claims 1-19.
46. The method of claim 45, wherein the at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, is conjugated to a cytotoxic agent.
47. The method of claim 46, wherein the cytotoxic agent is selected from the group consisting of a chemotherapeutic agent, a biologic agent, a toxin, and a radioactive isotope.
48. The method of any one of claims 45-47, wherein the at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, reduces the number of proliferating cells in the cancer and/or reduces the volume or size of a tumor of the cancer.
49. The method of any one of claims 45-48, wherein the at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, reduces the metastases of cancer cells.
50. The method of any one of claims 45-49, wherein the at least monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, enhances the infiltration of NK cells into a tumor.
51. The method of claim 50, wherein the infiltrating NK cells are activated and cytotoxic.
52. The method of claim 50 or 51, wherein the infiltrating NK cells express cytotoxicity genes selected from the group consisting of eomesodermin, granzyme A, granzyme B, and perforin 1.
53. The method of any one of claims 45-52, wherein the at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, is administered in a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation.
54. The method of any one of claims 45-53, further comprising administering to the subject a therapeutic agent or regimen for treating cancer.
55. The method of any one of claims 45-54, further comprising administering to the subject an additional therapy selected from the group consisting of immunotherapy, checkpoint blockade, cancer vaccines, chimeric antigen receptors, chemotherapy, radiation, target therapy, and surgery.
56. The method of any one of claims 45-55, wherein cancer cells in the subject express MICA and/or MICB.
57. A method of treating a subject afflicted with cancer comprising administering to the subject at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, according to any one of claims 1-19, in combination with an agent that enhances MICA and/or MICB expression.
58. The method of claim 57, wherein the agent enhances MICA and/or MICB expression through genomic damage pathways.
59. The method of claim 57 or 58, wherein the agent is selected from the group consisting of radiation therapy, antibody-drug conjugate, HDAC inhibitor, proteasome inhibitor, chemotherapy, alkylating agent, and topoisomerase inhibitor.
60. The method of claim 59, wherein the HDAC inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of hydroxamic acid, vorinostat, suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, trichostatin A, LAQ824, panobinostat, belinostat, ITF2357, cyclic tetrapeptide, depsipeptide, benzamide, Eetinostat, MGCD0103, short-chain aliphatic acids, valproic acid, phenyl butyrate, AN-9, pivanex, CHR-3996, and CHR-2845.
61. The method of claim 59, wherein the proteasome inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of bortezomib, NPI-0052, carfilzomib, CEP 18770, and MLN9708.
62. The method of claim 61, wherein the proteasome inhibitor is bortezomib.
63. The method of claim 59, wherein the chemotherapy agent is dacarbazine.
64. The method of any one of claims 57-63, wherein the agent administered before, after, or concurrently with the at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof.
65. The method of any one of claims 57-64, wherein the at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, is conjugated to a cytotoxic agent.
66. The method of claim 65, wherein the cytotoxic agent is selected from the group consisting of a chemotherapeutic agent, a biologic agent, a toxin, and a radioactive isotope.
67. The method of any one of claims 57-66, wherein the at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, and the agent, have a synergistic effect on reducing the number of proliferating cells in the cancer and/or reduces the volume or size of a tumor of the cancer.
68. The method of any one of claims 57-67, wherein the at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, and the agent, have a synergistic effect on reducing the metastases of cancer cells.
69. The method of any one of claims 57-68, wherein the at least monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, and the agent, have a synergistic effect on enhancing the infiltration of NK cells into a tumor.
70. The method of claim 69, wherein the infiltrating NK cells are activated and cytotoxic.
71. The method of claim 69 or 70, wherein the infiltrating NK cells express cytotoxicity genes selected from the group consisting of eomesodermin, granzyme A, granzyme B, and perforin 1.
72. The method of any one of claims 57-71, wherein the at least one monoclonal antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, and/or the agent is administered in a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation.
73. The method of any one of claims 57-72, further comprising administering to the subject a therapeutic agent or regimen for treating cancer.
74. The method of any one of claims 57-73, further comprising administering to the subject an additional therapy selected from the group consisting of immunotherapy, checkpoint blockade, cancer vaccines, chimeric antigen receptors, chemotherapy, radiation, target therapy, and surgery.
75. The method of any one of claims 45-74, wherein the cancer is selected from the group consisting of bladder cancer, breast cancer, uterine/cervical cancer, ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, testicular cancer, esophageal cancer, gastrointestinal cancer, pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, colon cancer, kidney cancer, head and neck cancer, lung cancer, stomach cancer, germ cell cancer, bone cancer, liver cancer, thyroid cancer, skin cancer, neoplasm of the central nervous system, lymphoma, leukemia, myeloma, sarcoma, and virus-related cancer.
76. The method of claim 75, wherein the cancer is a metastatic cancer, refractory cancer, or recurrent cancer.
77. The method of any one of claims 45-76, wherein the subject is an animal model of cancer.
78. The method of claim 77, wherein the animal model is a mouse model, optionally wherein the mouse model is a humanized mouse model.
79. The method of any one of claims 45-78, wherein the subject is a mammal.
80. The method of claim 79, wherein the mammal is a humanized mouse or a human.
81. The method of claim 80, wherein the mammal is a human.
</claims>
</document>
