<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W36/08,H04W60/00,H04W72/04,H04W74/08,H04W76/11,H04W76/12,H04W76/27
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
AT&T TECHNICAL SERVICES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
STOCKERT, MARK
STAWIARSKI, SLAWOMIR
VIVANCO, DANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73456589
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATIC NEIGHBOR RELATIONSHIPS FOR A 5G AIR INTERFACE OR OTHER NEXT GENERATION NETWORK INTERFACES
</title>

<abstract>
Beamforming techniques can improve base station transmission power and user equipment (UE) sensitivity reception. For example, beamforming can create a narrow beam, which can concentrate signal power in a much smaller region. Combined with base station (gNB) requests and UE location data, an accurate beam can be generated to cover a desired area. 5G base station broadcasts can utilize a globally unique cell identifier (e.g., physical cell identifier), and a locally unique cell identifier (e.g., new radio cell global identifier) to facilitate beamforming and mitigate handover failure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: detecting, by a mobile device comprising a processor, a first neighboring cell base station device of a wireless network; in response to the detecting the first neighboring cell base station device, reporting, by the mobile device, the first neighboring cell base station device to a serving cell base station device of the wireless network; based on a location of the mobile device, receiving, by the mobile device, a wireless signal from a second neighboring cell base station device; and in response to a determination based on a comparison of the first neighboring cell base station device to a data structure of the serving cell base station device and in response to the receiving the wireless signal, receiving, by the mobile device, a prompt to report the second neighboring cell base station device to the serving cell base station device, wherein the second neighboring cell base station device is different from the first neighboring cell base station device, and wherein identity data of the second neighboring cell base station device is a same identity data of the first neighboring cell base station device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the data structure comprises neighboring list data representative of a group of neighboring cellular base station devices that neighbor the serving cell base station device.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the mobile device, a request for an internet protocol address of the first neighboring cell base station device.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the reporting the first neighboring cell base station device comprises reporting physical cell identifier data as the identity data associated with the first neighboring cell base station device.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising: in response to the request for the internet protocol address of the first neighboring cell base station device, facilitating, by the mobile device, establishing a tunnel between the serving cell base station device and the first neighboring cell base station device.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: in response to the facilitating the establishing the tunnel, performing, by the mobile device, a communication handover between the serving cell base station device and the first neighboring cell base station device.
7. The method of claim 3, wherein the reporting of the first neighboring cell base station device comprises reporting local unique cell identifier data associated with the first neighboring cell base station device.
8. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving, from a mobile device, first neighboring base station data representative of a first neighboring base station device in relation to a serving base station device of the mobile device; in response to a condition associated with the first neighboring base station device being determined to have been satisfied, sending request data representative of a request for additional first neighboring base station device data to the mobile device; in response to receiving the additional first neighboring base station device data from the mobile device, establishing a data tunnel communication between the serving base station device and the first neighboring base station device; and in response to the establishing the data tunnel communication, storing the additional first neighboring base station device data in a data store of the serving base station device.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the request is a first request, and wherein the request data comprises a second request data associated with the second neighboring base station device.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the request data comprises an instruction for the mobile device to send the additional neighboring base station data to the serving base station device.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: facilitating sending a request for an internet protocol address of the first neighboring base station device from the serving base station.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the establishing the data tunnel communication between the serving base station device and the first neighboring base station device is performed in response to the facilitating the sending the request for the internet protocol address of the first neighboring base station device.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to the establishing the data tunnel communication between the serving base station device and the first neighboring base station device, updating a neighboring cell data structure with the first neighboring base station.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the request data comprises an instruction for the mobile device to utilize a beam from a second neighbor base station device.
15. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: based on a location of a mobile device, receiving, by a serving base station device, first identity data of a first neighbor base station device; in response to the receiving the first identity data, adding the first identity data to a data structure of the serving base station device; receiving an indication that the mobile device has received a beamforming signal from a second neighbor base station device different than the first neighbor base station device; comparing the first identity data of the first neighbor base station device to second identity data of the second neighbor base station device; and in response to a condition associated with the comparing being determined to have been satisfied, facilitating a handover of the mobile device from the serving base station device to the first neighbor base station device.
16. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the condition comprises determining that the first identity data is a same identity data as the second identity data.
17. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the condition comprises determining, based on the location of the mobile device, that the mobile device is likely to be within a beam generated by the second neighbor base station device.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to the condition associated with the comparing being determined to have been satisfied, labeling the second neighbor base station device as a new base station device not previously found in the data structure.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to the labeling the second neighbor base station device as the new base station device, generating an additional field to identify a relationship between the serving base station device and the second neighbor base station device, in the data structure.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the condition is a first condition, and wherein the operations further comprise: in response to a second condition associated with time being determined to have been satisfied, deleting the relationship between the serving base station device and the second neighbor base station device.
</claims>
</document>
