<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/00,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDI TAGHI ABAD, FARDIN
WALTERS, AUSTIN GRANT
GOODSITT, JEREMY EDWARD
SEATON, ROBERT P.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71945574
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CHAT BOT UTILIZING METAPHORS TO BOTH RELAY AND OBTAIN INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques to enable a chat bot system to use metaphors during an interaction with a user are provided. Identification information for the user can be received and can be used to determine a customer group assigned to the user. An initial state of a sequence for resolving an issue of the user can be determined, with the sequence for resolving the issue of the user including a final state wherein the issue of the user is resolved. A metaphor can be selected to include in a question based on the determined customer group assigned to the customer and the determined initial state of the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer. The question can request information from the user relating to the issue of the user. The question can be generated to include the selected metaphor and then provided to the user with a prompt to provide a response.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: storage configured to store a plurality of groups of customers, wherein each group of customers comprises related customers; and one or more processors to execute instructions, that when executed cause the one or more processors to: process data received through a chat-bot interface from a user device, the data comprising identification information of a customer of the user device, and an issue or a question relating to a product or a service; determine a customer group of the plurality of groups of customers based on the data received from the user device; generate a response comprising one or more words to attempt to resolve the issue or the question; determine a metaphor to replace at least one word of the one or more words of the response based on the customer group; and provide the response to the user device through the chat-bot interface, the response including the metaphor in place of the at least one word.
2. The system of claim 1, the one or more processors to receive the data and provide the response through the chat-bot interface in an audio format, a textual format, or combination thereof.
3. The system of claim 1, the one or more processors to determine the metaphor for the response from a plurality of candidate metaphors, each candidate metaphor assigned a corresponding value representing a likelihood of resolving the issue or the question, wherein the metaphor determined for the response having a highest assigned value of the plurality of candidate metaphors.
4. The system of claim 1, the one or more processors to group the customer with other customers in the customer group based on at least one of demographic information of the customer, an education level of the customer, and a prior interaction with the customer.
5. The system of claim 1, the one or more processors to: receive additional data received through the chat-bot interface relating to the issue or the question; determine whether the response resolved the issue or the question; and in response to determining the response resolved the issue or the question, increase a value assigned to the metaphor; and in response to determining the response did not resolved the issue or the question, decrease the value assigned to the metaphor.
6. The system of claim 1, the storage to store metaphor data including the metaphor, the metaphor data to include mappings between words and metaphors including a mapping between the metaphor and the at least one word.
7. The system of claim 6, the one or more processors to execute machine-learning operations to map the words to the metaphors to generate the metaphor data.
8. A computer-implemented method, comprising: storing a plurality of groups of customers, wherein each group of customers comprises related customers; receiving data through a chat-bot interface from a user device, the data comprising identification information of a customer associated with the user device, and an issue or a question relating to a product or a service; determining a customer group of the plurality of groups of customers based on the data received from the user device; generating a response comprising one or more words to attempt to resolve the issue or the question; determining a metaphor to replace at least one word of the one or more words of the response based on the customer group; and providing the response to the user device through the chat-bot interface, the response including the metaphor in place of the at least one word.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, comprising receiving the data and providing the response through the chat-bot interface in an audio format, a textual format, or combination thereof.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, comprising determining the metaphor for the response from a plurality of candidate metaphors, each candidate metaphor assigned a corresponding value representing a likelihood of resolving the issue or the question, wherein the metaphor determined for the response having a highest assigned value of the plurality of candidate metaphors.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, comprising grouping the customer with other customers in the customer group based on at least one of demographic information of the customer, an education level of the customer, and a prior interaction with the customer.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, comprising: receiving additional data received through the chat-bot interface relating to the issue or the question; determining whether the response resolved the issue or the question; and in response to determining the response resolved the issue or the question, increasing a value assigned to the metaphor; and in response to determining the response did not resolved the issue or the question, decreasing the value assigned to the metaphor.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, comprising storing metaphor data including the metaphor, the metaphor data to include mappings between words and metaphors including a mapping between the metaphor and the at least one word.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, comprising executing, by one or more processors, machine-learning operations to map the words to the metaphors to generate the metaphor data.
15. At least one non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising a set of instructions that, in response to being executed on a computing device, cause the computing device to: process data received through a chat-bot interface from a user device, the data comprising identification information of a customer of the user device, and an issue or a question relating to a product or a service; determine a customer group for the customer from a plurality of groups of customers based on the data received from the user device; generate a response comprising one or more words to attempt to resolve the issue or the question; determine a metaphor to replace at least one word of the one or more words of the response based on the customer group; and provide the response to the user device through the chat-bot interface, the response including the metaphor in place of the at least one word.
16. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the computing device to receive the data and provide the response through the chat-bot interface in an audio format, a textual format, or combination thereof.
17. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the computing device to determine the metaphor for the response from a plurality of candidate metaphors, each candidate metaphor assigned a corresponding value representing a likelihood of resolving the issue or the question, wherein the metaphor determined for the response having a highest assigned value of the plurality of candidate metaphors.
18. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the computing device to group the customer with other customers in the customer group based on at least one of demographic information of the customer, an education level of the customer, and a prior interaction with the customer.
19. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the computing device to: receive additional data received through the chat-bot interface relating to the issue or the question; determine whether the response resolved the issue or the question; and in response to determining the response resolved the issue or the question, increase a value assigned to the metaphor; and in response to determining the response did not resolved the issue or the question, decrease the value assigned to the metaphor.
20. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, the computing device to: store metaphor data including the metaphor, the metaphor data to include mappings between words and metaphors including a mapping between the metaphor and the at least one word; and execute machine-learning operations to map the words to the metaphors to generate the metaphor data.
</claims>
</document>
