<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64C39/02,B64F1/22,B64F1/32,B64F1/36,G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G07C9/00,G07C9/25,G08B13/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IP VENUE, LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
ORTIZ LUIS M.
Lopez, Kermit D
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74037753
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SECURE RECOVERY SYSTEM FOR DRONE DELIVERED PACKAGES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for use in the secure recovery of drone delivered packages can include a housing, at least one electromechanically operated door securing access to the housing and a retractable platform that can electromechanically extend from inside the housing to an area outside the housing when the at least one electromechanically operated door is opened. The retractable platform can serve as a landing pad for a delivery drone and/or as a base onto which a package can be received from a delivery drone. The retractable platform can electromechanically move back into the housing and the door can close after receiving the package. Communications components, alarms and cameras can also be associated with the housing to facilitate its operation for package recovery and security. Heating and cooling system components can maintain contents of a package held within the housing at a select temperatures.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for use in the secure recovery of drone delivered packages, comprising: a housing; at least one electromechanically operated door securing access to the housing; a retractable platform that can electromechanically extend from inside the housing to an area outside the housing when the at least one electromechanically operated door is opened; a system control panel including a user interface for receiving at least one of a security code or biometric from a user to control a locking mechanism and unlock the electromechanically locked door; and a heating and cooling system disposed in the housing and responsive to temperature selected from at least one of the system control unit, a remote client or a sensor to maintain a temperature within the housing.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the retractable platform is configured to serve as a landing pad for at least one of a delivery drone and packages carried by the delivery drone.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising wheels mounted to an underside of the platform to enable the platform movement along flooring supporting the housing,
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one of a track, rail or telescoping arm, wherein the retractable platform is movable in and out of the housing along the at least one of a track, rail or telescoping arm.
5. The system of claim 4, further comprising wheels mounted to an underside of the platform to enable the platform movement along flooring supporting the housing as the retractable platform moves in and out of the housing along the at least one of a track, rail or telescoping arm.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the retractable platform is configured to serve as a base onto which a package can be received from a delivery drone, and the retractable platform can electromechanically move back into the housing and the door to close after receiving the package.
7. The system of claim 1, further comprising electromechanical hardware and communication components with the housing.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein actuation of the at least one door and deployment of the retractable platform outside of the housing by the electromechanical hardware is enabled via wireless communication of the communication components with the delivery drone, wherein a secure code activates opening of the door and deployment of the retractable platform from the housing in order to receive a package from the delivery drone.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein electromechanical actuation of the at least one door and outward deployment of the retractable platform by the electromechanical hardware in order to receive a package from the delivery drone is enabled via receipt of a wireless communication of a signal by the communication components from at least one of a delivery drone in close proximity to the housing or a remote server in association with the delivery drone when the delivery drone indicates to the server that it is in close proximity to the housing.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the electromechanical hardware, communication components and cooling/heating system components are powered by a solar-powered and battery rechargeable source.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the electromechanical hardware for opening the door and/or deploying the platform further comprises at least one of motorized, pneumatic, or hydraulic components.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the electromechanical hardware further includes a locking mechanism for the door.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the locking mechanism further comprises at least one of a keyed lock, biometrically controlled lock, or a wirelessly actuated lock, wherein the door that can be actuated by a user using at least one of: a key, a biometric provided to a biometric reader, or a signal provided wirelessly to communication components associated with the locking mechanism and the housing.
14. The system of claim 1, further comprising a security alarm associated with the housing to protect the housing and any packages contained therein from tampering or theft.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the housing further comprises a security alarm adapted to protect the housing and any packages contained therein from tampering or theft by wirelessly communicating a signal indicating any anomalies to a remote security monitoring service or system.
16. The system of claim 1, further comprising a 360-degree security camera to monitor, record and/or transmit activity occurring near the housing.
17. The system of claim 1, further comprising a 360 degree security camera to monitor, record and/or transmit activity near the housing in response to an alarm or detection of activity near the housing via sensors.
18. The system of claim 6 wherein said delivery drone and said retractable platform are controlled by to a machine learning application.
19. The system of claim 16 wherein said 360-degree security camera is controlled by a machine learning application.
20. A method of securing drone delivered packages, comprising: providing a system for use in the secure recovery of drone delivered packages, the system including a housing, electromechanical hardware, at least one electromechanically operated door operable by the electromechanical hardware securing access to the housing, a retractable platform electromechanically extendable from inside the housing by the electromechanical hardware to an area outside the housing when the at least one electromechanically operated door is opened, and communication components, wherein retractable platform is configured to serve as a base onto which a package can be received from a delivery drone; actuate at least one door and deploy the retractable platform outside of the housing by the electromechanical hardware enabled via wireless communication of a signal between the communication components and at least one of a remote server and the delivery drone, wherein the signal includes a secure code that activates opening of the door and deployment of the retractable platform from the housing in order to receive a package from the delivery drone and wherein receipt of the wireless communication of the signal by the communication components from at least one of a delivery drone occurs when the delivery drone is in close proximity to the housing; receive a package on the platform from a delivery drone; move the retractable platform electromechanically moves back into the housing and close the door after receiving the package from the delivery drone and after the delivery drone is no longer in close proximity to the housing; and maintain the package at a temperature within the housing.
</claims>
</document>
