<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/02,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EVENT DYNAMIC
</assignee>

<inventors>
SMITH, ROBERT D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72141980
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and Method for Dynamically Pricing Event Tickets
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system of dynamically pricing tickets for an event is disclosed herein. A computing system retrieves historical pricing information for a given team. The computing system generates a predictive model using a machine learning model. The computing system generates the predictive model by generating a plurality of input data sets based on historical pricing information and learning, by the machine learning model, a price for each ticket based at least on the team-specific information, opponent-specific information, and historical price data. Each input data set includes team-specific information, opponent-specific information, and historical ticket sale data. The computing system receives a set of tickets for an upcoming event. The upcoming event is between the given team and an opponent. The computing system generates, via the predictive model, a price for each ticket in the set of tickets based on parameters of each ticket, the team-specific information, and opponent-specific information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of dynamically pricing tickets for an event, comprising: generating, by the computing system, a first set of predictive models, wherein each predictive model in the first set of predictive models is associated with a respective team in the first set of teams using a machine learning model, by: retrieving historical pricing information for a first set of teams, the historical pricing information comprising ticket sale information for a plurality of events corresponding to each team in the first set of teams; generating a plurality of input data sets based on historical pricing information, wherein each input data set comprises team-specific information, opponent-specific information, and historical ticket sale data; and learning, by the machine learning model, a price for each ticket based at least on the team-specific information, opponent-specific information, and historical price data; generating, by the computing system, a generic predictive model for a league, based on the set of predictive models generated for each team in the first set of teams by: learning, by the machine learning model, common traits among each predictive model; and extracting, by the machine learning model, the learned common traits; generating, by the computing system, a second set of predictive models for a second set of teams, by: tailoring the generic predictive model for each team in the second set of teams by modifying one or more weights associated with each generic predictive model based on parameters associated with each team in the second set of teams; receiving, by the computing system, a set of tickets for an upcoming event, wherein the upcoming event is between a target team and an opponent; and generating, by the computing system via a predictive model corresponding to the target team, a price for each ticket in the set of tickets based on parameters of each ticket, the team-specific information, and opponent-specific information.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating a plurality of input data sets based on historical pricing information, comprises: retrieving from a data source the team-specific information, the opponent-specific information, and the historical ticket sale data.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the computing system, ticket sale data for the upcoming event, the ticket sale data comprising a specification of each ticket purchased and a time at which each ticket was purchase; and updating, by the computing system via the predicting model, the price for each available ticket based on the ticket sale data.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: retrieving from a data source updated team-specific information and updated opponent-specific information; and updating, by the computing system via the predictive model, the price for each available ticket based on the updated team-specific information and the updated opponent-specific information
5. The method of claim 1, wherein generating, by the computer system via the predictive model, the price for each ticket in the set of tickets, comprises: retrieving from a data source weather forecast information for a time and date of the event; and generating the price for each ticket in the set of tickets based on the weather forecast information.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, by the computing system via the machine learning model, a second predictive model for a second team, wherein the given team and the second team are members of the same league.
7. (canceled)
8. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory having programming instructions stored thereon, which, when executed by the processor, perform one or more operations comprising: retrieving historical pricing information for a given act, the historical pricing information comprising ticket sale information for a plurality of events; generating a first set of predictive models, wherein each predictive model in the first set of predictive models is associated with a respective team in the first set of teams using a machine learning model, by: retrieving historical pricing information for a first set of teams, the historical pricing information comprising ticket sale information for a plurality of events corresponding to each team in the first set of teams; generating a plurality of input data sets based on historical pricing information, wherein each input data set comprises act-specific information, and historical ticket sale data; and learning, by the machine learning model, a price for each ticket based at least on the act-specific information and historical price data; generating, by the computing system, a generic predictive model for a league, based on the set of predictive models generated for each team in the first set of teams by: learning, by the machine learning model, common traits among each predictive model; and extracting, by the machine learning model, the learned common traits; generating, by the computing system, a second set of predictive models for a second set of teams, by: tailoring the generic predictive model for each team in the second set of teams by modifying one or more weights associated with each generic predictive model based on parameters associated with each team in the second set of teams; receiving a set of tickets for an upcoming event, wherein the upcoming event is associated with a target act; and generating, via a predictive model corresponding to the target team, a price for each ticket in the set of tickets based on parameters of each ticket and the act-specific information.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein generating a plurality of input data sets based on historical pricing information, comprises: retrieving from a data source the act-specific information and the historical ticket sale data.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more operations further comprise: receiving ticket sale data for the upcoming event, the ticket sale data comprising a specification of each ticket purchased and a time at which each ticket was purchase; and updating, by the computing system via the prediction model, the price for each available ticket based on the ticket sale data.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more operations further comprise: retrieving from a data source updated act-specific information; and updating, via the predictive model, the price for each available ticket based on the updated act-specific information.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein generating, via the predictive model, the price for each ticket in the set of tickets, comprises: retrieving from a data source weather forecast information for a time and date of the event; and generating the price for each ticket in the set of tickets based on the weather forecast information.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more operations further comprise: generating, via the machine learning model, a second predictive model for a second act, wherein the given act and the second act are within a same category of acts.
14. (canceled)
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium including one or more sequences of instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, causes: generating a first set of predictive models, wherein each predictive model in the first set of predictive models is associated with a respective team in the first set of teams using a machine learning model, by: retrieving historical pricing information for a first set of teams, the historical pricing information comprising ticket sale information for a plurality of events corresponding to each team in the first set of teams; generating a plurality of input data sets based on historical pricing information, wherein each input data set comprises team-specific information, opponent-specific information, and historical ticket sale data; and learning, by the machine learning model, a price for each ticket based at least on the team-specific information, opponent-specific information, and historical price data; generating a generic predictive model for a league, based on the set of predictive models generated for each team in the first set of teams by: learning, by the machine learning model, common traits among each predictive model; and extracting, by the machine learning model, the learned common traits; generating, by the computing system, a second set of predictive models for a second set of teams, by: tailoring the generic predictive model for each team in the second set of teams by modifying one or more weights associated with each generic predictive model based on parameters associated with each team in the second set of teams; receiving a set of tickets for an upcoming event, wherein the upcoming event is between a target team and an opponent; and generating, via a predictive model corresponding to the target team, a price for each ticket in the set of tickets based on parameters of each ticket, the team-specific information, and opponent-specific information.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors further cause: receiving ticket sale data for the upcoming event, the ticket sale data comprising a specification of each ticket purchased and a time at which each ticket was purchase; and updating, by the computing system via the predicting model, the price for each available ticket based on the ticket sale data.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors further cause: retrieving from a data source updated team-specific information and updated opponent-specific information; and updating, via the predictive model, the price for each available ticket based on the updated team-specific information and the updated opponent-specific information
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein generating, via the predictive model, the price for each ticket in the set of tickets, comprises: retrieving from a data source weather forecast information for a time and date of the event; and generating the price for each ticket in the set of tickets based on the weather forecast information.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors further cause: generating, via the machine learning model, a second predictive model for a second team, wherein the given team and the second team are members of the same league.
20. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
