<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F8/65,G06N20/00,H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
GILBERT, MARK RAYMOND
NIGAM, RAHUL
RATHINASABAPATHY, MANGALAM
Sharma, Esha
Menon, Vinod
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69960767
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic monitoring on service health signals
</title>

<abstract>
In non-limiting examples of the present disclosure, systems, methods and devices for monitoring telemetry data from a cloud-based application service are presented. Telemetry data for a plurality of operations for the cloud-based application service may be analyzed, wherein the analysis comprises comparing a first time series with a second time series, and where data from the second time series relates to operations that were executed prior in time compared with execution of operations related to the first time series. One or more operational changes in the cloud-based application service may be identified based on the analysis, and at least one telemetry monitor may be dynamically configured based on the one or more operational changes that were identified.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for monitoring telemetry data from a cloud-based application service, the method comprising: analyzing telemetry data for a plurality of operations performed by an application executed on the cloud-based application service, wherein the analysis comprises comparing: a first time series comprising data from execution of the application prior to an application update, and a second time series comprising data from execution of the application after the application update; identifying, based on the analysis, a first operational change in the cloud-based application service, the first operational change comprising an addition of a new operation to the application; dynamically configuring a telemetry monitor based on the first operational change, wherein the configuring comprises: establishing, via application of a first machine learning model to the second time series, a baseline comprising a normalized range of errors during a threshold duration of time for the new operation, and establishing, via application of a second machine learning model to the second time series, a threshold value of errors outside of the baseline for the duration of time; analyzing a third time series comprising data from execution of the application after the application update; determining that a value of errors exceeds the threshold value of errors for the duration of time in the third time series; and flagging a portion of the third time series corresponding to the duration of time where the value of errors was determined to exceed the threshold value of errors.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein dynamically configuring the telemetry monitor comprises selecting an appropriate monitoring technique to detect failure patterns for the first operational change.
3. 3-6. (canceled)
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the established baseline is a static baseline.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the established baseline is a dynamic baseline.
9. (canceled)
10. The method of claim 1, wherein there are a plurality of new operational changes that are identified based on the analysis, and there are a plurality of new telemetry monitors generated for monitoring data associated with new operations, the number determined based on available bandwidth for monitoring operations in the cloud-based application service.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a second operational change in the cloud-based application service, wherein the second operational change comprises an operation that has been removed from an application hosted by the cloud-based application service.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a second operational change in the cloud-based application service, wherein the second operational change comprises an operation that has been modified from an application hosted by the cloud-based application service.
13. A system for monitoring telemetry data from a cloud-based application service, comprising: a memory for storing executable program code; and one or more processors, functionally coupled to the memory, the one or more processors being responsive to computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: analyze telemetry data for a plurality of operations performed by an application executed on the cloud-based application service, wherein the analysis comprises comparing: a first time series comprising data from execution of the application prior to an application update, and a second time series comprising data from execution of the application after the application update; identify, based on the analysis, a first operational change in the cloud-based application service, the first operational change comprising an addition of a new operation to the application; dynamically configure a telemetry monitor based on the first operational change, wherein the configuring comprises: establishing, via application of a first machine learning model to the second time series, a baseline comprising a normalized range of errors during a threshold duration of time for the new operation, and establishing, via application of a second machine learning model to the second time series, a threshold value of errors outside of the baseline for the duration of time; analyze a third time series comprising data from execution of the application after the application update; determine that a value of errors exceeds the threshold value of errors for the duration of time in the third time series; and flag a portion of the third time series corresponding to the duration of time where the value of errors was determined to exceed the threshold value of errors.
14. 14-16. (canceled)
17. A computer-readable storage device comprising executable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, assists with monitoring telemetry data from a cloud-based application service, the computer-readable storage device including instructions executable by the one or more processors for: analyzing telemetry data for a plurality of operations performed by an application executed on the cloud-based application service, wherein the analysis comprises comparing: a first time series comprising data from execution of the application prior to an application update, and a second time series comprising data from execution of the application after the application update; identifying, based on the analysis, a first operational change in the cloud-based application service, the first operational change comprising an addition of a new operation to the application; dynamically configuring a telemetry monitor based on the first operational change, wherein the configuring comprises: establishing, via application of a first machine learning model to the second time series, a baseline comprising a normalized range of errors during a threshold duration of time for the new operation, and establishing, via application of a second machine learning model to the second time series, a threshold value of errors outside of the baseline for the duration of time; analyzing a third time series comprising data from execution of the application after the application update; determining that a value of errors exceeds the threshold value of errors for the duration of time in the third time series; and flagging a portion of the third time series corresponding to the duration of time where the value of errors was determined to exceed the threshold value of errors.
18. -20. (Canceled)
21. The method of claim 11, further comprising: dynamically configuring a second telemetry monitor based on the second operational change, wherein the configuring comprises removing a telemetry monitor that was monitoring data associated with the removed operation.
22. The method of claim 12, further comprising: dynamically configuring a second telemetry monitor based on the second operational change, wherein the configuring comprises modifying a telemetry monitor that was monitoring data associated with the modified operation.
23. The system of claim 13, wherein in dynamically configuring the telemetry monitor the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: select an appropriate monitoring technique to detect failure patterns for the first operational change.
24. The system of claim 13, wherein the established baseline is a static baseline.
25. The system of claim 13, wherein the established baseline is a dynamic baseline.
26. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: identify a second operation change in the cloud-based application service, wherein the second operational change comprises an operation that has been removed from an application hosted by the cloud-based application service.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: dynamically configure a second telemetry monitor based on the second operational change, wherein the configuring comprises removing a telemetry monitor that was monitoring data associated with the removed operation.
28. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: identify a second operational change in the cloud-based application service, wherein the second operational change comprises an operation that has been modified from an application hosted by the cloud-based application service.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: dynamically configure a second telemetry monitor based on the second operational change, wherein the configuring comprises modifying a telemetry monitor that was monitoring data associated with the modified operation.
30. The computer-readable storage device of claim 17, wherein the established baseline is a static baseline.
31. The method of claim 1, wherein the threshold value of errors comprises one of: a threshold number of errors, and a threshold percentage of errors.
</claims>
</document>
