<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04L29/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
USHER, MARK
HARZ, DIRK
NOLL, JOHANNES
Noske, Marc
Küllmar, Uwe
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74103352
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DOMAIN CLUSTERING FOR MALICIOUS CAMPAIGN IDENTIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method for identification of malicious domains is provided. The method extracts a set of domain information from one or more input streams. The set of domain information includes a set of domains and a set of domain characteristics describing each domain. The method clusters the set of domains to generate a set of campaign clusters of related domains. The clusters are based on the set of domain characteristics. The method modifies the set of campaign clusters with a set of threat intelligence ratings to generate a set of enriched campaign clusters. A portion of the set of threat intelligence ratings correspond to one or more domains within the set of campaign clusters. The method determines a cluster designation for each campaign cluster of the set of enriched campaign clusters and distributes the cluster designations for each campaign cluster to one or more threat intelligence resource.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: extracting a set of domain information from one or more input streams, the set of domain information including a set of domains and a set of domain characteristics describing each domain; based on the set of domain characteristics, clustering the set of domains to generate a set of campaign clusters of related domains; modifying the set of campaign clusters with a set of threat intelligence ratings to generate a set of enriched campaign clusters, a portion of the set of threat intelligence ratings corresponding to one or more domains within the set of campaign clusters; determining a cluster designation for each campaign cluster of the set of enriched campaign clusters; and distributing the cluster designations for each campaign cluster to one or more threat intelligence resource.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein clustering the set of domains further comprises: determining a first set of cluster keys for a first subset of domain characteristics of the set of domain characteristics; and clustering the set of domains to generate a first set of campaign clusters based on the first set of cluster keys.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein clustering the set of domains further comprises: determining a second set of cluster keys based on a second subset of domain characteristics of the set of domain characteristics; and clustering the first set of campaign clusters to generate a second set of campaign clusters based on the second set of cluster keys.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a time-based cache for the set of domains, the time-based cache storing the set of domain information within a specified time range, wherein the set of domains are clustered based on the set of domain information and the specified time range.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein modifying the set of campaign clusters with the set of threat intelligence ratings further comprises: identifying one or more threat intelligence scores; generating the set of threat intelligence ratings based on the one or more threat intelligence scores; and applying a threat intelligence rating to each campaign cluster of the set of campaign clusters.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the cluster designation for each campaign cluster further comprises: classifying the set of threat intelligence ratings to generate a set of threat classes, each threat class indicating a campaign nature; and applying a threat class of the set of threat classes to each campaign cluster.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein clustering the set of domains further comprises: monitoring the one or more input streams to identify subsequent domain information including a subsequent set of domains; and iteratively clustering the set of domain clusters to incorporate the subsequent set of domains into one or more campaign clusters of the set of campaign clusters.
8. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and a computer-readable storage medium, coupled to the one or more processors, storing program instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: extracting a set of domain information from one or more input streams, the set of domain information including a set of domains and a set of domain characteristics describing each domain; based on the set of domain characteristics, clustering the set of domains to generate a set of campaign clusters of related domains; modifying the set of campaign clusters with a set of threat intelligence ratings to generate a set of enriched campaign clusters, a portion of the set of threat intelligence ratings corresponding to one or more domains within the set of campaign clusters; determining a cluster designation for each campaign cluster of the set of enriched campaign clusters; and distributing the cluster designations for each campaign cluster to one or more threat intelligence resource.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein clustering the set of domains further comprises: determining a first set of cluster keys for a first subset of domain characteristics of the set of domain characteristics; and clustering the set of domains to generate a first set of campaign clusters based on the first set of cluster keys.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein clustering the set of domains further comprises: determining a second set of cluster keys based on a second subset of domain characteristics of the set of domain characteristics; and clustering the first set of campaign clusters to generate a second set of campaign clusters based on the second set of cluster keys.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: generating a time-based cache for the set of domains, the time-based cache storing the set of domain information within a specified time range, wherein the set of domains are clustered based on the set of domain information and the specified time range.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein modifying the set of campaign clusters with the set of threat intelligence ratings further comprises: identifying one or more threat intelligence scores; generating the set of threat intelligence ratings based on the one or more threat intelligence scores; and applying a threat intelligence rating to each campaign cluster of the set of campaign clusters.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein determining the cluster designation for each campaign cluster further comprises: classifying the set of threat intelligence ratings to generate a set of threat classes, each threat class indicating a campaign nature; and applying a threat class of the set of threat classes to each campaign cluster.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein clustering the set of domains further comprises: monitoring the one or more input streams to identify subsequent domain information including a subsequent set of domains; and iteratively clustering the set of domain clusters to incorporate the subsequent set of domains into one or more campaign clusters of the set of campaign clusters.
15. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions being executable by one or more processors to cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: extracting a set of domain information from one or more input streams, the set of domain information including a set of domains and a set of domain characteristics describing each domain; based on the set of domain characteristics, clustering the set of domains to generate a set of campaign clusters of related domains; modifying the set of campaign clusters with a set of threat intelligence ratings to generate a set of enriched campaign clusters, a portion of the set of threat intelligence ratings corresponding to one or more domains within the set of campaign clusters; determining a cluster designation for each campaign cluster of the set of enriched campaign clusters; and distributing the cluster designations for each campaign cluster to one or more threat intelligence resource.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein clustering the set of domains further comprises: determining a first set of cluster keys for a first subset of domain characteristics of the set of domain characteristics; and clustering the set of domains to generate a first set of campaign clusters based on the first set of cluster keys.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein clustering the set of domains further comprises: determining a second set of cluster keys based on a second subset of domain characteristics of the set of domain characteristics; and clustering the first set of campaign clusters to generate a second set of campaign clusters based on the second set of cluster keys.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein modifying the set of campaign clusters with the set of threat intelligence ratings further comprises: identifying one or more threat intelligence scores; generating the set of threat intelligence ratings based on the one or more threat intelligence scores; and applying a threat intelligence rating to each campaign cluster of the set of campaign clusters.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein determining the cluster designation for each campaign cluster further comprises: classifying the set of threat intelligence ratings to generate a set of threat classes, each threat class indicating a campaign nature; and applying a threat class of the set of threat classes to each campaign cluster.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein clustering the set of domains further comprises: monitoring the one or more input streams to identify subsequent domain information including a subsequent set of domains; and iteratively clustering the set of domain clusters to incorporate the subsequent set of domains into one or more campaign clusters of the set of campaign clusters.
</claims>
</document>
