<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L29/06,H04L9/32,H04W12/06,H04W4/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHAH, SHREY NITIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69160328
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CROSS-DEVICE ACCESS TO ONE-TIME PASSWORDS
</title>

<abstract>
In non-limiting examples of the present disclosure, systems, methods and devices for providing cross-device access to one-time passwords are presented. A user may provide sign-in credentials to a secure service via an application or website user interface. The user may be prompted to authenticate the user's identity by confirming a one-time-password sent from the secure service to a secondary device via an electronic message. The secondary device may analyze received messages, or message notifications, to determine whether they include a one-time-password. If a one-time-password is identified in a received message, the one-time-password may be automatically sent from the secondary device to a target computing device. The one-time-password may be sent securely to the target computing device via Bluetooth, a public-private key process, and/or a cloud-based authentication mechanism. The one-time-password may be automatically inserted into a one-time-password field or copied to a notepad or password manager.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for providing cross-device access to a one-time password, the method comprising: receiving, by a mobile computing device, an electronic message; determining that the electronic message comprises a one-time password; and automatically transferring the one-time password to a target computing device, wherein a trust has been established between the mobile computing device and the target computing device.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising extracting the one-time password from the electronic message.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the one-time password is automatically sent wirelessly from the mobile computing device to the target computing device upon the one-time password being extracted from the electronic message.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the one-time password is sent from the mobile computing device to the target computing device via Bluetooth.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the one-time password is sent from the mobile computing device to an application on the target computing device via an API.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining that the electronic message comprises a one-time password comprises applying one of: a one-time password pattern recognition model to the electronic message; and a machine learning model to the electronic message.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic message comprises an SMS message and the one-time password is extracted directly from the SMS message.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic message comprises an SMS message and the one-time password is extracted from an image of a notification corresponding to the SMS message.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic message comprises an SMS message, and automatically transferring the one-time password to the target computing device comprises transferring the entirety of the SMS message to the target device.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising extracting, by the target device, the one-time password from the SMS message.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein determining that the electronic message comprises a one-time password comprises filtering a plurality of SMS messages for a sender corresponding to a target domain on the target device.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the established trust between the mobile computing device and the target computing device comprises at least one of: a Bluetooth trust; a public-private key trust; and a cloud-based application sign-in trust.
13. A system for providing cross-device access to a one-time password, comprising: a memory for storing executable program code; and one or more processors, functionally coupled to the memory, the one or more processors being responsive to computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: receive, at a target device, an indication to have a one-time password for a current domain sent to a mobile computing device; receive, from the mobile computing device at the target computing device, a one-time password, wherein the mobile computing device and the target computing device have an established trust; and automatically insert the one-time password into a password field in the current domain.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the established trust between the mobile computing device and the target computing device comprises a Bluetooth trust, and wherein the one-time password is received from the mobile computing device by the target computing device via a Bluetooth connection.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the one-time password is incorporated in an SMS message form in which it was received by the mobile computing device.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: filter a plurality of SMS messages based on a sender of each of the plurality of SMS messages; and identify the SMS message based on the SMS message having a sender corresponding to the current domain
17. A computer-readable storage device comprising executable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, assists with providing cross-device access to a one-time password, the computer-readable storage device including instructions executable by the one or more processors for: receiving, by a first computing device, an electronic message; determining that the electronic message comprises a one-time password; extracting the one-time password; and automatically transferring the one-time password to a second computing device, wherein a trust has been established between the first computing device and the second computing device.
18. The computer-readable storage device of claim 17, wherein the established trust between the first computing device and the second computing device comprises a Bluetooth trust, and wherein the one-time password is transferred from the first computing device to the second computing device via a Bluetooth connection.
19. The computer-readable storage device of claim 18, wherein in extracting the one-time password the instructions are further executable by the one or more processors for: extracting the one-time password from an image of a notification corresponding to the electronic message.
20. The computer-readable storage device of claim 17, wherein in determining that the electronic message comprises a one-time password the instructions are further executable by the one or more processors for: applying one of: a one-time password pattern recognition model to the electronic message; and a machine learning model to the electronic message.
</claims>
</document>
