<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55,G06F3/0484
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ReliaQuest Holding, LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARTLOW, JOE
MURPHY, BRIAN P.
PFEIFFER, JASON
O'CONNOR, COLIN
Murphy, Brian Philip
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74190280
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
THREAT MITIGATION SYSTEM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method, computer program product and computing system for: a computer-implemented method is executed on a computing device and includes: rendering a threat mitigation user interface that identifies objects within a computing platform in response to a security event; monitoring actions taken by a third-party when investigating the security event; and providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional actions to be taken by the third-party concerning the investigation of the security event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, executed on a computing device, comprising: rendering a threat mitigation user interface that identifies objects within a computing platform in response to a security event; monitoring actions taken by a third-party when investigating the security event; and providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional actions to be taken by the third-party concerning the investigation of the security event.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein monitoring actions taken by a third-party when investigating the security event include: monitoring artifacts gathered by the third-party when investigating the security event.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2 wherein the artifacts include one or more of: raw data; screen shots; graphics; notes; annotations; audio recordings; and video recordings.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein monitoring actions taken by a third-party when investigating the security event include: monitoring objects reviewed by the third-party when investigating the security event.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional actions to be taken by the third-party concerning the investigation of the security event includes: providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional objects to be reviewed by the third-party when investigating the security event.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional actions to be taken by the third-party concerning the investigation of the security event includes: providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional artifacts to be gathered by the third-party when investigating the security event.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional actions to be taken by the third-party concerning the investigation of the security event includes: providing suggestions to the third-party concerning a remedial action to be taken by the third-party when investigating the security event.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: enabling the third-party to select an object within the threat mitigation user interface, thus defining a selected object; and rendering an inspection window that defines object information concerning the selected object.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8 wherein the inspection window is a popup inspection window.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 8 wherein the inspection window is a slide out inspection window.
11. A computer program product residing on a computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored thereon which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: rendering a threat mitigation user interface that identifies objects within a computing platform in response to a security event; monitoring actions taken by a third-party when investigating the security event; and providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional actions to be taken by the third-party concerning the investigation of the security event.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11 wherein monitoring actions taken by a third-party when investigating the security event include: monitoring artifacts gathered by the third-party when investigating the security event.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12 wherein the artifacts include one or more of: raw data; screen shots; graphics; notes; annotations; audio recordings; and video recordings.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 11 wherein monitoring actions taken by a third-party when investigating the security event include: monitoring objects reviewed by the third-party when investigating the security event.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 11 wherein providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional actions to be taken by the third-party concerning the investigation of the security event includes: providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional objects to be reviewed by the third-party when investigating the security event.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 11 wherein providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional actions to be taken by the third-party concerning the investigation of the security event includes: providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional artifacts to be gathered by the third-party when investigating the security event.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 11 wherein providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional actions to be taken by the third-party concerning the investigation of the security event includes: providing suggestions to the third-party concerning a remedial action to be taken by the third-party when investigating the security event.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 11 further comprising: enabling the third-party to select an object within the threat mitigation user interface, thus defining a selected object; and rendering an inspection window that defines object information concerning the selected object.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 18 wherein the inspection window is a popup inspection window.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 18 wherein the inspection window is a slide out inspection window.
21. A computing system including a processor and memory configured to perform operations comprising: rendering a threat mitigation user interface that identifies objects within a computing platform in response to a security event; monitoring actions taken by a third-party when investigating the security event; and providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional actions to be taken by the third-party concerning the investigation of the security event.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 21 wherein monitoring actions taken by a third-party when investigating the security event include: monitoring artifacts gathered by the third-party when investigating the security event.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 22 wherein the artifacts include one or more of: raw data; screen shots; graphics; notes; annotations; audio recordings; and video recordings.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 21 wherein monitoring actions taken by a third-party when investigating the security event include: monitoring objects reviewed by the third-party when investigating the security event.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 21 wherein providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional actions to be taken by the third-party concerning the investigation of the security event includes: providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional objects to be reviewed by the third-party when investigating the security event.
26. The computer-implemented method of claim 21 wherein providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional actions to be taken by the third-party concerning the investigation of the security event includes: providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional artifacts to be gathered by the third-party when investigating the security event.
27. The computer-implemented method of claim 21 wherein providing suggestions to the third-party concerning additional actions to be taken by the third-party concerning the investigation of the security event includes: providing suggestions to the third-party concerning a remedial action to be taken by the third-party when investigating the security event.
28. The computer-implemented method of claim 21 further comprising: enabling the third-party to select an object within the threat mitigation user interface, thus defining a selected object; and rendering an inspection window that defines object information concerning the selected object.
29. The computer-implemented method of claim 28 wherein the inspection window is a popup inspection window.
30. The computer-implemented method of claim 28 wherein the inspection window is a slide out inspection window.
</claims>
</document>
