<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B1/00,A61B1/06,G06K9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJIFILM
</assignee>

<inventors>
ENDO, MAIKO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70459937
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS SUPPORT DEVICE, ENDOSCOPE SYSTEM, AND MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS SUPPORT METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A medical diagnosis support device according to an aspect of the invention includes an image acquisition section that acquires medical images in time series, a detection section that detects a region of interest included in the medical images, a discrimination section that performs the discrimination of the medical images, a display control section that causes a display device to display any one of a result of the detection or a result of the discrimination, and a setting section that sets a waiting time required until the display is performed after the detection or the discrimination is performed. In a case where an object to be displayed is switched between the result of the detection and the result of the discrimination, the display control section causes the result of the detection or the discrimination to be displayed when the waiting time has passed after the detection or the discrimination is performed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A medical diagnosis support device comprising: an image acquisition section that acquires medical images in time series; a detection section that detects a region of interest included in the medical images; a discrimination section that performs discrimination of the medical images; a display control section that causes a display device to display any one of a result of the detection or a result of the discrimination; and a setting section that sets a waiting time required until the display is performed after the detection or the discrimination is performed, wherein, in a case where an object to be displayed is switched between the result of the detection and the result of the discrimination, the display control section causes the result of the detection or the discrimination to be displayed when the waiting time has passed after the detection or the discrimination is performed.
2. The medical diagnosis support device according to claim 1, further comprising: an estimation section that estimates the amount of movement between frames of the medical images, wherein the setting section sets the waiting time according to the estimated amount of movement.
3. The medical diagnosis support device according to claim 2, wherein, in a case where the amount of movement is larger than a threshold value, the setting section sets a waiting time, which is shorter than a waiting time corresponding to the threshold value, as the waiting time, and in a case where the amount of movement is equal to or smaller than the threshold value, the setting section sets a waiting time, which is longer than a waiting time corresponding to the threshold value, as the waiting time.
4. The medical diagnosis support device according to claim 1, further comprising: a storage control section that stores information about the region of interest, which is detected from the medical images, in a storage device; and a determination section that determines whether or not the region of interest detected by the detection section is a region of interest having been already detected on the basis of the stored information, wherein, in a case where it is determined that the region of interest detected by the detection section is a region of interest having been already detected, the display control section does not perform the display even though the waiting time has passed.
5. The medical diagnosis support device according to claim 1, further comprising: a receiving section that receives a user's operation, wherein the setting section sets the waiting time on the basis of the received operation.
6. The medical diagnosis support device according to claim 5, wherein the setting section sets a waiting time, which is selected from a plurality of predetermined waiting times by the user's operation, as the waiting time.
7. The medical diagnosis support device according to claim 1, wherein until the waiting time has passed, the display control section causes the display device to display information representing that the result of the detection or the result of the discrimination is not displayed.
8. The medical diagnosis support device according to claim 1, wherein the setting section sets a first waiting time, which is a waiting time required in a case where the object to be displayed is switched to the result of the detection from the result of the discrimination, as the waiting time, and in a case where the object to be displayed is switched to the result of the detection from the result of the discrimination, the display control section causes the result of the detection to be displayed when the first waiting time has passed after the detection is performed.
9. The medical diagnosis support device according to claim 1, wherein the setting section sets a second waiting time, which is a waiting time required in a case where the object to be displayed is switched to the result of the discrimination from the result of the detection, as the waiting time, and in a case where the object to be displayed is switched to the result of the discrimination from the result of the detection, the display control section causes the result of the discrimination to be displayed when the second waiting time has passed after the discrimination is performed.
10. The medical diagnosis support device according to claim 1, further comprising: an operation control section that operates any one of the detection section or the discrimination section, wherein, in a case where the object to be operated is switched between the detection section and the discrimination section, the display control section determines that the object to be displayed is switched between the result of detection and the result of discrimination and causes the result of detection or the result of the discrimination, which is obtained from the operation, to be displayed.
11. The medical diagnosis support device according to claim 1, wherein the detection performed by the detection section and the discrimination performed by the discrimination section are performed in parallel.
12. The medical diagnosis support device according to claim 1, wherein the detection section performs the detection by using a first hierarchical network and the discrimination section performs the discrimination by using a second hierarchical network.
13. An endoscope system comprising: the medical diagnosis support device according to claim 1; the display device; an endoscope that is to be inserted into an object to be examined; and a light source device that applies one of first illumination light and second illumination light different from the first illumination light to the object to be examined.
14. The endoscope system according to claim 13, wherein the light source device switches the first illumination light and the second illumination light while interlocking with the switching of the detection and the discrimination.
15. The endoscope system according to claim 13, wherein the light source device switches the first illumination light and the second illumination light independently of the switching of the detection and the discrimination.
16. A medical diagnosis support method comprising: an image acquisition step of acquiring medical images in time series; a detection step of detecting a region of interest included in the medical images; a discrimination step of performing discrimination of the medical images; a display control step of causing a display device to display any one of a result of the detection or a result of the discrimination; and a setting step of setting a waiting time required until the display is performed after the detection or the discrimination is performed, wherein, in a case where an object to be displayed is switched between the result of the detection and the result of the discrimination, the result of the detection or the discrimination is caused to be displayed in the display control step when the waiting time has passed after the detection or the discrimination is performed.
</claims>
</document>
