<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T1/20,G06T1/60,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOSHIBA TEC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KADO, TAKASHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69005534
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INFORMATION PROCESSING APPARATUS, ARTICLE IDENTIFICATION APPARATUS, AND ARTICLE IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
According to one embodiment, an information processing apparatus includes a memory and a processor. The memory stores a background image that does not include a detection target, a detection target image that is an image of the detection target, and label information that indicates the detection target of the detection target image. The processor performs trapezoid correction on the background image, generates a composite image by superimposing the detection target image on the background image subjected to the trapezoid correction, and generates learning data based on the composite image and the label information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing apparatus, comprising: a memory that stores a detection target image that is an image of a detection target, label information that indicates the detection target of the detection target image, and a background image that does not include the detection target; and a processor that performs trapezoid correction on the background image, generates a composite image by superimposing the detection target image on the background image subjected to the trapezoid correction, and generates learning data based on the composite image and the label information.
2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor further performs projective transformation on the background image by the same projection method as that for the detection target image, and performs the trapezoid correction on the background image obtained by being subjected to the projective transformation.
3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor corrects the detection target image based on a preset composite parameter and generates the composite image by superimposing the corrected detection target image on the background image.
4. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the preset composite parameter comprises at least one of hue correction, brightness correction, contrast correction, and blurring.
5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor generates the learning data by associating an area of the detection target in the composite image with label information corresponding to the detection target.
6. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the detection target comprises a commodity for sale.
7. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the detection target comprises a shopper within a store.
8. An article identification apparatus, comprising: a memory that stores a detection target image that is an image of a detection target, label information that indicates the detection target of the detection target image, and a background image that does not include the detection target; and a processor that performs trapezoid correction on the background image, generates a composite image by superimposing the detection target image on the background image subjected to the trapezoid correction, generates learning data based on the composite image and the label information, generates an identification model based on the generated learning data, and identifies the detection target in an identification target image based on the identification target image in which the detection target is projected and the identification model.
9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the processor further performs projective transformation on the background image by the same projection method as that for the detection target image, and performs the trapezoid correction on the background image obtained by being subjected to the projective transformation.
10. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the processor performs projective transformation on the identification target image by the same projection method as that for the detection target image, performs trapezoid correction on the identification target image obtained by being subjected to the projective transformation, and identifies the detection target in the identification target image based on the identification target image subjected to the trapezoid correction and the identification model.
11. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the processor corrects the detection target image based on a preset composite parameter, and generates the composite image by superimposing the corrected detection target image on the background image.
12. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the preset composite parameter comprises at least one of hue correction, brightness correction, contrast correction, and blurring.
13. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the processor generates the learning data by associating an area of the detection target in the composite image with label information corresponding to the detection target.
14. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the detection target comprises a commodity for sale.
15. An article identification system, comprising: an imaging device that captures an identification target image in which a detection target is projected and supplies the identification target image to an article identification apparatus; and the article identification apparatus comprising: a memory that stores a detection target image that is an image of a detection target, label information that indicates the detection target of the detection target image and a background image that does not include the detection target, and a processor that performs trapezoid correction on the background image, generates a composite image by superimposing the detection target image on the background image subjected to the trapezoid correction, generates learning data based on the composite image and the label information, generates an identification model based on the generated learning data, and identifies the detection target in the identification target image based on the identification target image in which the detection target is projected and the identification model.
16. The system according to claim 15, wherein the imaging device is a commodity shelf imaging device.
17. The system according to claim 15, wherein the processor further performs projective transformation on the background image by the same projection method as that for the detection target image, and performs the trapezoid correction on the background image obtained by being subjected to the projective transformation.
18. The system according to claim 17, wherein the processor performs projective transformation on the identification target image by the same projection method as that for the detection target image, performs trapezoid correction on the identification target image obtained by being subjected to the projective transformation, and identifies the detection target in the identification target image based on the identification target image subjected to the trapezoid correction and the identification model.
19. The system according to claim 15, wherein the processor corrects the detection target image based on a preset composite parameter, and generates the composite image by superimposing the corrected detection target image on the background image.
20. The system according to claim 15, wherein the processor generates the learning data by associating an area of the detection target in the composite image with label information corresponding to the detection target.
</claims>
</document>
