<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-02-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/04,G16H50/20,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Redivus Health LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
DUNN, JEFF
FANGMAN, ANTHONY
LATHAM, HEATH
DESAI, ACHAL
ELLIOTT, DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56564764
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPREHENSIVE DIAGNOSIS AND CARE SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A diagnostic care coordination system assists a caregiver with treating a patient. The system comprises a diagnostic engine and a care engine. The diagnostic engine is configured to generate a working diagnosis of the patient. The diagnostic engine includes a static diagnosing web containing a plurality of information nodes and a dynamic diagnosing analyzer for presenting to a user a plurality of information requests. The dynamic diagnosing analyzer navigates a user through the plurality of information nodes of the static diagnosing web based upon received responses to said plurality of information requests. Based upon a route through the static diagnosing web as taken by the dynamic diagnosing analyzer, the diagnostic engine generates the working diagnosis. The care engine determines a treatment plan based upon said working diagnosis.
</abstract>

<claims>
Having thus described various embodiments of the invention, what is claimed as new and desired to be protected by Letters Patent includes the following:
1. A computerized method for providing a diagnosis of a patient during a patient instance comprising: presenting to a user a plurality of information requests related to the patient instance, including symptoms and events; receiving a plurality of responses from the user to said plurality of information requests; suggesting an initial working diagnosis of the patient to the user based upon a route through a static diagnosing web, wherein said initial working diagnosis includes a first diagnosis and a second diagnosis; creating a first treatment plan configured to treat the first diagnosis and a second treatment plan configured to treat the second diagnosis; generating a set of care steps associated with a single comprehensive treatment plan by consolidating redundant care steps present in both the first treatment plan and the second treatment plan; wherein each of the first diagnosis and the second diagnosis includes a plurality of working etiologies, and wherein a relative likelihood of each working etiology of the plurality of working etiologies is determined by a processing unit based at least in part on a comparison of the patient instance to historical patient instances involving other similarly situated patients.
2. The computerized method of claim 1, further comprising: generating the comprehensive treatment plan based on the relative likelihoods of the plurality of working etiologies.
3. The computerized method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a preliminary diagnosis from the user before the step of presenting the user with the plurality of information requests; and directing the user to a specific location in the static diagnosing web based upon the preliminary diagnosis.
4. The computerized method of claim 3, further comprising: providing unstructured inputs to a language analyzer from the user; and determining the initial working diagnosis from the unstructured inputs.
5. The computerized method of claim 1, further comprising: assigning a timestamp to at least one of said plurality of responses.
6. The computerized method of claim 5, further comprising: using one or more of said assigned timestamps to facilitate record keeping and billing associated with the patient.
7. The computerized method of claim 1, further comprising: refining the initial working diagnosis based on additional input from the user.
8. The computerized method of claim 1, further comprising: presenting a category interface to the user to allow the user to select a category, a specialty, or a location before the step of presenting the user with the plurality of information requests.
9. The computerized method of claim 1, further comprising: concurrently navigating the user through otherwise unrelated information nodes so as to arrive at the first diagnosis and the second diagnosis.
10. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the user is a first user having a first specialty, further comprising: transferring operations to a second user having a second specialty, presenting said plurality of information requests related to the second specialty in response to said transfer of operations to the second user.
11. The computerized method of claim 10, wherein the first user is associated with a first care facility, wherein the second user is associated with a second care facility that is different than the first care facility, wherein said step of transferring operations to the second user is performed in response to the patient being moved from the first care facility to the second care facility.
12. A system for providing a diagnosis of a patient during a patient instance, the system comprising: a non-transitory readable storage media having a computer program stored thereon, wherein the computer program instructs at least one processing element to perform the following steps: presenting to a user a plurality of information requests related to the patient instance, including symptoms and events; receiving a plurality of responses from the user to said plurality of information requests; suggesting a working diagnosis of a patient to the user based at least in part upon a route through a static diagnosing web, wherein said working diagnosis includes a first diagnosis and a second diagnosis; creating a first treatment plan configured to treat the first diagnosis and a second treatment plan configured to treat the second diagnosis, generating a set of care steps associated with a single comprehensive treatment plan by consolidating redundant care steps present in both the first treatment plan and the second treatment plan; wherein the working diagnosis includes a plurality of working etiologies, and wherein a relative likelihood of each working etiology of the plurality of working etiologies is determined by a processing unit based at least in part on a comparison of the patient instance to historical patient instances involving other similarly situated patients.
13. The system of claim 12, further comprising: receiving an initial diagnosis from the user; and moving the user to a specific location in the static diagnosing web based upon the initial diagnosis, wherein said initial diagnosis is received from the user while navigating through the static diagnosing web.
14. The system of claim 12, further comprising: recording said plurality of responses and assigning a timestamp to at least one of said plurality of responses; and providing said plurality of responses and one or more timestamps to facilitate record keeping and billing associated with the patient.
15. The system of claim 12 further comprising the steps of: determining that the first diagnosis is inconsistent with a patient reaction; moving the user via a cross-connection to a new information node in the static diagnosing web; wherein the new information node is not connected in the diagnosing web to a prior information node navigated to for the first diagnosis; receiving additional information from the user; and generating a third diagnosis based on the received additional information.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the received additional information requires repeating a test previously performed while navigating the user through the information nodes of the static diagnosing web to generate the third diagnosis.
17. The system of claim 12 further comprising the steps of: verifying the first diagnosis is consistent with a patient reaction; and discharging the patient in response to the verification.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the step of verifying the first working diagnosis comprises receiving a result of a test.
19. A non-transitory computer readable medium having a computer program stored thereon for assisting in treating a patient, wherein the computer program instructs at least one processing element to perform the following steps: acquiring a first working diagnosis and a second working diagnosis for the patient, wherein the first working diagnosis includes a first working etiology determined by comparing a likelihood of each etiology of a plurality of possible etiologies, wherein the likelihood of each etiology is determined by a processing unit based at least in part on historical patients similar to the patient; and wherein the second working diagnosis includes a second working etiology determined by comparing a likelihood of each etiology of a plurality of possible etiologies, wherein the likelihood of each etiology is determined by a processing unit based at least in part on historical patients similar to the patient; and determining a first treatment plan including a first set of care steps and a second treatment plan including a second set of care steps.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 19, further comprising: creating a single comprehensive treatment plan configured to treat the first working diagnosis and the second working diagnosis; and generating a set of care steps associated with said comprehensive treatment plan by the at least one processing element by consolidating redundant care steps present in both the first treatment plan and the second treatment plan.
</claims>
</document>
