<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G07C9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SENSORMATIC ELECTRONICS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
WESTMACOTT, IAN C.
MARTIN, WALTER A.
Donaghy, Martin J.
Ainsworth, Peter Alexander
McBride, Frederick Michael
Neill, Terry
McKenna, John
Boyes, Derek
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64184268
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Frictionless Access Control System Embodying Satellite Cameras for Facial Recognition
</title>

<abstract>
A frictionless access control system and method embodying satellite cameras for facial recognition are disclosed. The cameras capture image data of individuals at an access point such as a door. Preferably, two or more cameras are placed on opposite sides of the access point to increase the likelihood that the individuals are captured in the image data. A facial cropper module extracts facial patches from the image data, and a facial signature module computes facial signatures from the facial patches. A facial recognition module receives the computed facial signatures from the facial signature module, matches the computed facial signatures to stored facial signatures, and sends user identity information of individuals corresponding to the stored facial signatures to the facial signature module when the computed facial signatures match the stored facial signatures.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An access control system, comprising: one or more surveillance cameras at an access point that capture image data; a facial cropper module that extracts facial patches from the image data; a facial signature module that computes facial signatures from the facial patches; and a facial recognition module that receives the computed facial signatures from the facial signature module, matches the computed facial signatures to stored facial signatures, and sends user identity information of individuals corresponding to the stored facial signatures to the facial signature module when the computed facial signatures match the stored facial signatures.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the facial signature module ranks the facial patches using image quality factors to determine acceptable facial patches for individuals, and computes the facial signatures from the acceptable facial patches.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the facial signature module determines a highest ranked acceptable facial patch for each of the individuals, and computes a facial signature for each of the individuals from the highest ranked acceptable facial patch for each of the individuals.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the facial signature module compares each of the facial patches against one another to determine whether the facial patches are associated with same individuals or different individuals.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the surveillance cameras include the facial cropper module and the facial signature module.
6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a local control unit at the access point that includes the facial cropper module and the facial signature module.
7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a local control unit at the access point that includes the facial recognition module.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the local control unit includes a cache of the stored facial signatures, and the facial recognition module matches the computed facial signatures to the cache of the stored facial signatures.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the facial recognition module executes upon a microcontroller of the local control unit.
10. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a connected services system that is remote to the access control point and that includes a server, wherein the server includes the facial recognition module.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the facial recognition module executes upon a microcontroller of the server.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the connected services system includes a facial recognition database that includes the stored facial signatures and the user identity information of individuals corresponding to the stored facial signatures.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the facial recognition module determines whether the individuals are authorized based on the user identity information.
14. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a door lock system for the access point, wherein the facial signature module sends a signal to unlock a door system when the facial recognition module determines that the individuals are authorized users.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the surveillance cameras include the facial cropper module and the facial signature module and send the computed facial signatures to a connected services system that includes the facial recognition module.
16. A method for controlling access to an access control system, the method comprising: one or more surveillance cameras at an access point capturing image data; extracting facial patches from the image data; computing facial signatures from the facial patches; matching the computed facial signatures to stored facial signatures; and using user identity information of individuals corresponding to the stored facial signatures when the computed facial signatures match the stored facial signatures.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising ranking the facial patches using image quality factors to determine acceptable facial patches for individuals, and computing the facial signatures from the acceptable facial patches.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising determining a highest ranked acceptable facial patch for each of the individuals, and computing a facial signature for each of the individuals from the highest ranked acceptable facial patch for each of the individuals.
19. The method of claim 16, further comprising comparing each of the facial patches against one another to determine whether the facial patches are associated with same individuals or different individuals.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the surveillance cameras include a facial cropper module and a facial signature module.
21. The method of claim 16, wherein a local control unit at the access point includes a facial cropper module and a facial signature module.
22. The method of claim 16, wherein a local control unit at the access point includes a facial recognition module.
23. The method of claim 16, wherein a connected services system that is remote to the access control point includes a facial recognition module.
24. The method of claim 16, wherein a connected services system includes a facial recognition database that includes stored facial signatures and user identity information of individuals corresponding to the stored facial signatures.
25. The method of claim 16, wherein a door lock system receives a signal to unlock a door system when a facial recognition module determines that the individuals are authorized users.
</claims>
</document>
