<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q20/38,G06Q20/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MASTERCARD WORLDWIDE
</assignee>

<inventors>
PIEL, BRIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71072769
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR DYNAMICALLY DETERMINED CONTEXTUAL, USER-DEFINED, AND ADAPTIVE AUTHENTICATION CHALLENGES
</title>

<abstract>
An adaptive authentication (AA) computer device used for improved payment transaction authentication services is provided. The AA computer device includes at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device and is configured to retrieve historical transaction data and authentication types for each historical transaction. The AA computer device is also configured to generate a model associating each of the authentication types with a corresponding set of values for transaction parameters. The AA computer device is further configured to receive pending transaction data including a cardholder identifier of a first cardholder, a merchant identifier, and a transaction amount. The AA computer device is further configured to determine an authentication type by applying the model to the transaction parameters derived from the pending transaction and transmit to the first cardholder an authentication request of the authentication type.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An adaptive authentication (AA) computer device for improved payment transaction authentication services, the AA computer device comprising at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device, the AA computer device configured to: retrieve, from a database, (i) historical transaction data for a plurality of historical transactions processed over a payment processing network, and (ii) a respective one of a plurality of cardholder authentication types used for each of the historical transactions; generate a model associating each of the plurality of cardholder authentication types with a corresponding set of values for transaction parameters derived from the historical transaction data, wherein the transaction parameters include at least one of a transaction amount range, a transaction geographic location, a merchant identifier, and a merchant category; receive pending transaction data for a pending transaction on the payment processing network, the pending transaction data including at least a cardholder identifier of a first cardholder, a pending transaction merchant identifier, and a pending transaction amount; determine a candidate cardholder authentication type for the pending transaction by applying the model to the transaction parameters derived from the pending transaction data; and transmit to the first cardholder an authentication request of the candidate cardholder authentication type.
2. The AA computer device of claim 1, further configured to retrieve the historical transaction data for the plurality of historical transactions for which at least one of (i) the merchant identifier of the historical transaction data matches the pending transaction merchant identifier, (ii) the merchant category of the historical transaction data matches a pending transaction merchant category, and (iii) a transaction amount of the historical transaction data and the pending transaction amount are within the same transaction amount range.
3. The AA computer device of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of historical transactions is associated with the first cardholder.
4. The AA computer device of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of historical transactions is associated with a respective cardholder other than the first cardholder.
5. The AA computer device of claim 1, wherein the candidate cardholder authentication type is one of a PIN, a one-time password, a pattern code, a passcode, a digital signature, a signature capture, a biometric signature, a biometric sample, a challenge question, a low-energy infrared retinal scan, a finger vein scan, a near infrared iris scan, an optical fingerprint scan, a three-dimensional (3D) fingerprint scan, an optical palm print, a 3D facial scan, an optical facial scan, and a speech recognition sample.
6. The AA computer device of claim 1, further configured to retrieve, from the database using the cardholder identifier, a preferred contact channel of the cardholder, wherein the preferred contact channel includes at least one of a text message, an email, a telephone call, a link to a website, and a point-of-sale device.
7. A computer device of claim 1, further configured to: transmit, to the cardholder associated with the cardholder identifier in response to the pending transaction data, a request to identify a preferred one of the cardholder authentication types; receive, from the cardholder, an identified one of the cardholder authentication types; update the model based on the identified cardholder authentication type and the transaction parameters for the pending transaction; and associate the updated model in the database with the cardholder identifier.
8. The AA computer device of claim 1, wherein the transaction geographic location is defined relative to a cardholder home geographic area.
9. A computer-implemented method for improved payment transaction authentication services, the method implemented using an adaptive authentication (AA) computer device including at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device, said computer-implemented method comprising: retrieving, from a database, (i) historical transaction data for a plurality of historical transactions processed over a payment processing network, and (ii) a respective one of a plurality of cardholder authentication types used for each of the historical transactions; generating a model associating each of the plurality of cardholder authentication types with a corresponding set of values for transaction parameters derived from the historical transaction data, wherein the transaction parameters include at least one of a transaction amount range, a transaction geographic location, a merchant identifier, and a merchant category; receiving pending transaction data for a pending transaction on the payment processing network, the pending transaction data including at least a cardholder identifier of a first cardholder, a pending transaction merchant identifier, and a pending transaction amount; determining a candidate cardholder authentication type for the pending transaction by applying the model to the transaction parameters derived from the pending transaction data; and transmitting to the first cardholder an authentication request of the candidate cardholder authentication type.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising retrieving the historical transaction data for the plurality of historical transactions for which at least one of (i) the merchant identifier of the historical transaction data matches the pending transaction merchant identifier, (ii) the merchant category of the historical transaction data matches a pending transaction merchant category, and (iii) a transaction amount of the historical transaction data and the pending transaction amount are within the same transaction amount range.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein each of the plurality of historical transactions is associated with the first cardholder.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein each of the plurality of historical transactions is associated with a respective cardholder other than the first cardholder.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the candidate cardholder authentication type is one of a PIN, a one-time password, a pattern code, a passcode, a digital signature, a signature capture, a biometric signature, a biometric sample, a challenge question, a low-energy infrared retinal scan, a finger vein scan, a near infrared iris scan, an optical fingerprint scan, a three-dimensional (3D) fingerprint scan, an optical palm print, a 3D facial scan, an optical facial scan, and a speech recognition sample.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising retrieving, from the database using the cardholder identifier, a preferred contact channel of the cardholder, wherein the preferred contact channel includes at least one of a text message, an email, a telephone call, a link to a website, and a point-of-sale device.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: transmitting, to the cardholder associated with the cardholder identifier in response to the pending transaction data, a request to identify a preferred one of the cardholder authentication types; receiving, from the cardholder, an identified one of the cardholder authentication types; updating the model based on the identified cardholder authentication type and the transaction parameters for the pending transaction; and associating the updated model in the database with the cardholder identifier.
16. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable instructions embodied thereon, wherein when executed by an adaptive authentication (AA) computer device including at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device, the computer-executable instructions cause the at least one processor to: retrieve, from a database, (i) historical transaction data for a plurality of historical transactions processed over a payment processing network, and (ii) a respective one of a plurality of cardholder authentication types used for each of the historical transactions; generate a model associating each of the plurality of cardholder authentication types with a corresponding set of values for transaction parameters derived from the historical transaction data, wherein the transaction parameters include at least one of a transaction amount range, a transaction geographic location, a merchant identifier, and a merchant category; receive pending transaction data for a pending transaction on the payment processing network, the pending transaction data including at least a cardholder identifier of a first cardholder, a pending transaction merchant identifier, and a pending transaction amount; determine a candidate cardholder authentication type for the pending transaction by applying the model to the transaction parameters derived from the pending transaction data; and transmit to the first cardholder an authentication request of the candidate cardholder authentication type.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the at least one processor to retrieve the historical transaction data for the plurality of historical transactions for which at least one of (i) the merchant identifier of the historical transaction data matches the pending transaction merchant identifier, (ii) the merchant category of the historical transaction data matches a pending transaction merchant category, and (iii) a transaction amount of the historical transaction data and the pending transaction amount are within the same transaction amount range.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein each of the plurality of historical transactions is associated with the first cardholder.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein each of the plurality of historical transactions is associated with a respective cardholder other than the first cardholder.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the candidate cardholder authentication type is one of a PIN, a one-time password, a pattern code, a passcode, a digital signature, a signature capture, a biometric signature, a biometric sample, a challenge question, a low-energy infrared retinal scan, a finger vein scan, a near infrared iris scan, an optical fingerprint scan, a three-dimensional (3D) fingerprint scan, an optical palm print, a 3D facial scan, an optical facial scan, and a speech recognition sample.
</claims>
</document>
