<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/107,A61B5/11,G06K9/00,G06K9/66,G16H10/60,G16H30/40,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SPIRAL PHYSICAL THERAPY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOXEY, STEPHEN
STEIN, SPENCER
STEIN, LEE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66996420
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DIGITAL PLATFORM TO IDENTIFY HEALTH CONDITIONS AND THERAPEUTIC INTERVENTIONS USING AN AUTOMATIC AND DISTRIBUTED ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure is directed to method and system for automatic, distributed, computer-aided, and intelligent data collection/analytics, health monitoring, health condition identification, and patient preventive/remedial health advocacy. The system integrates (1) distributed patient health data collection devices, (2) centralized or distributed data servers running various intelligent and predictive data analytics engines for health screening, assessment, patient health condition identification, and patient preventive/remedial health advocacy, 3) specifically designed data structures including quantized health indicator vectors, patient health condition identification matrices and patient health condition vectors, (4) portal servers configured to interface with (5) distributed physician terminal devices and (6) distributed patient terminal devices for delivering health condition identification, health interventions and patient preventive/remedial health advocacy, and for monitoring and tracking patient activities. The various intelligent and predictive engines are configured to learn and extract hidden features and correlations from a large amount of data obtained from the distributed data collection devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for automatic and intelligent patient health condition identification (PHCI) and patient preventive/remedial health advocacy (PPRHA), comprising: a scanning platform having a plurality of optical sensors and a force plate; a data repository; a communication interface; and processing circuitry in communication with the scanning platform, the data repository and the communication interface, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to: receive body topography data for a target patient from the plurality of optical sensors via the communication interface; receive force data from the force plate via the communication interface; execute a data segmentation model trained based on a first machine learning algorithm to automatically identify a predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient and identify a set of representations corresponding to the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient; associate each of a plurality of predetermined health conditions with quantized values in a quantized health indicator vector space to generate a quantized PHCI matrix; derive a health indicator vector in the quantized health indicator vector space based on the set of representations and the force data; quantize the health indicator vector into the quantized health indicator vector space to obtain a quantized health indicator vector; store the quantized health indicator vector and data from the scanning platform in the data repository; automatically generate a patient health condition (PHC) vector comprising a plurality of components each corresponding to one of the plurality of predetermined health conditions; and automatically generate a PPRHA item from the PHC vector using a PPRHA model trained by a second machine learning algorithm.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein: the quantized health indicator vector space comprises dimensions associated with balancing characteristics derived from the predetermined set of body landmarks and force data of the target patient; and the PHC vector comprises a binary PHC vector comprising dimensions each represented by a binary value.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein: the processing circuitry is configured to derive static balancing characteristics from a single snapshot of the body topography data and the force data.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein: the processing circuitry is configured to derive dynamic balancing characteristics from multiple snapshots taken over time of the body topography data and the force data.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the dynamic balancing characteristics comprise body sway of the target patient and the processing circuitry is configured to determine the body sway based on variations of force distribution in the force data over time.
6. The system of claim 2, wherein: the quantized health indicator vector space comprises dimensions associated with tilt deviations and shift deviations in front-view and shift deviations in side-view of the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient; the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient comprises head, hips, shoulders, knees, and underbusts; and wherein the tilt deviations and shift deviations in front-view comprises a head shift, a head tilt, a shoulder shift, a shoulder tilt, an underbust shift, an underbust tilt, a hip shift, a hip tilt, a knee shift, and a knee tilt.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of representations comprises at least one circumferential attribute.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the at least one circumferential attribute comprises circumferences of two body landmarks among the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient, and wherein the quantized health indicator vector space comprises at least a dimension representing a quantized ratio between the circumferences of the two body landmarks.
9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a portal server for providing a first graphical user interface to a patient terminal device for displaying the PPRHA item to the target patient.
10. The system of claim 1, further comprising a portal server for providing a second graphical user interface to a physician terminal device, wherein: the second graphical user interface is configured to display the PPRHA item in the physician terminal device and to enable a physician to modify the PPRHA item to generate a modified PPRHA item; and wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to record the modified PPRHA item in the data repository.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the portal server is further configured to provide a first graphical user interface to a patient terminal device for displaying the modified PPRHA item to the target patient.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein: the PPRHA item comprises a therapeutic exercise and the modified PPRHA item comprises a modified therapeutic exercise; and the first graphical user interface is further configured to provide monitoring functions for tracking execution of the modified therapeutic exercise by the target patient.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the first graphical user interface comprises clickable buttons for the target patient to report execution of the modified therapeutic exercise.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the data repository further stores demo videos and wherein the first graphical user interface is configured to provide option to select and play demo videos corresponding to the modified therapeutic exercise.
15. A method for automatic and intelligent patient health condition identification (PHCI) and patient preventive/remedial health advocacy (PPRHA) by processing circuitry in communication with a data repository and a communication interface, comprising: receiving body topography data in a form of body mesh scan of a target patient from one of a plurality of distributed optical sensors via the communication interface; receiving force data from a force plate positioned under the target patient via the communication interface; executing a data segmentation model trained based on a first machine learning algorithm to automatically identify a predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient and identify a set of representations corresponding to the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient; associating each of a plurality of predetermined health conditions with quantized values in a quantized health indicator vector space associated with health of the predetermined set of body landmarks of the target patient to generate a quantized PHCI matrix; deriving a health indicator vector in the quantized health indicator vector space based on the set of representations and the force data quantizing the health indicator vector into the quantized health indicator vector space to obtain a quantized health indicator vector; storing the quantized health indicator vector and the body topography data in the data repository; automatically generating a patient health condition (PHC) vector comprising a plurality of component each corresponding to one of the plurality of predetermined health conditions; and automatically generating a PPRHA item from the PHC vector using a PPRHA model trained by a second machine learning algorithm.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein: the quantized health indicator vector space comprises dimensions associated with balancing characteristics derived from the predetermined set of body landmarks and force data of the target patient; and the PHC vector comprises a binary PHC vector comprising dimensions each represented by a binary value.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising at least one of: deriving static balancing characteristics from a single snapshot of the body topography data and the force data; or deriving dynamic balancing characteristics from multiple snapshots taken over time of the body topography data and the force data.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the dynamic balancing characteristics comprise body sway of the target patient and the method further comprises determining the body sway based on variations of force distribution in the force data over time.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein: the PPRHA model is periodically retrained with updated training data based on a plurality of feedbacks; and the PPRHA item comprises a therapeutic exercise.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the plurality of feedbacks comprises: modification of the therapeutic exercise by a physician as monitored by a portal server via a second graphical user interface on a physician terminal device; self-evaluation following execution of the therapeutic exercise by the target patient as collected by the portal server via a first graphical user interface on a patient terminal device; images or videos of the target patient taken by the patient terminal device while the target patient is executing the therapeutic exercise as reported to the portal server from the patient terminal device; or records of viewing, by the target patient, demo videos provided to the patient terminal device via the first graphical user interface.
</claims>
</document>
