<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/06,G01S13/93,H01P3/12,H01P5/08,H01Q1/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WAYMO
</assignee>

<inventors>
DROZ, PIERRE-YVES
IZADIAN, JAMAL
KARPLUS, PAUL
LENIUS, SAMUEL
LI ZHE
PURVIS, KYLA
WANG MIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69102639
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Waveguide Apparatus with High Speed Dual Channel Wireless Contactless Rotary Joint
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicle having a communication system is disclosed. The system includes two electrical couplings, coupled by way of a rotary joint having a bearing waveguide. Each electrical coupling includes an interface waveguide configured to couple to external signals. Each electrical coupling also includes a waveguide section configured to propagate electromagnetic signals between the interface waveguide and the bearing waveguide of the rotary joint. Additionally, the rotary joint is configured to allow one electrical coupling to rotate with respect to the other electrical coupling. An axis of rotation of the rotary joint is defined by a center of a portion of the waveguides. Yet further, the rotary joint allows electromagnetic energy to propagate between the waveguides of the electrical couplings.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A communication system comprising: a bearing waveguide having a first end and a second end, located in a center portion of a rotational bearing; a non-rotational communication unit comprising: at least one interface waveguide electromagnetically coupled to a first antenna, and a first waveguide section having a first distal end bordering the first end of the bearing waveguide, and a first proximal end to which the at least one interface waveguide is coupled; and a rotational communication unit comprising: at least one interface waveguide electromagnetically coupled to a second antenna, and a second waveguide section having a first distal end bordering the second end of the bearing waveguide, and a first proximal end to which the at least one interface waveguide is coupled, wherein the rotational bearing is configured to allow the rotational communication unit to rotate with respect to the non-rotational communication unit, and wherein the rotary joint allows electromagnetic signals to propagate between the communication units.
2. The communication system of claim 1, wherein the rotational communication unit comprises a sensor unit rotationally mounted to a vehicle, the non-rotational communication unit is mounted to the vehicle in a fixed position, and wherein the communication system enables two-way communication between a sensor processor and the sensor unit.
3. The communication system of claim 2, wherein the second antenna is part of one or more communication chips that are part of a light detection and ranging (LIDAR) sensor included in the sensor unit.
4. The communication system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the communication units includes a single communication chip having a respective antenna.
5. The communication system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the communication units includes two communication chips.
6. The communication system of claim 1, wherein the bearing waveguide is configured to rotate with respect to the first waveguide section.
7. The communication system of claim 1, wherein the bearing waveguide is configured to rotate with respect to the second waveguide section.
8. The communication system of claim 1, wherein the first waveguide section, the second waveguide section, and the bearing waveguide are circular waveguides.
9. The communication system of claim 1, wherein the first waveguide section, the second waveguide section, and the bearing waveguide are configured to propagate a frequency between 50 and 100 Gigahertz.
10. A method comprising: coupling, by a first interface waveguide, a first electromagnetic signal from a first antenna into a first waveguide section, wherein the first waveguide section includes a first distal end bordering a bearing waveguide of a rotary joint and a first proximal end to which the first plurality of interface waveguides are coupled; coupling the first electromagnetic signal from the first waveguide section to the bearing waveguide section of the rotary joint, wherein the bearing waveguide section is part of a rotary joint, and the bearing waveguide section comprises a first end coupled to the first waveguide section and a second end coupled to a second waveguide section; coupling the first electromagnetic signal from the bearing waveguide section to a second waveguide section, wherein the second waveguide section includes a second distal end coupled the bearing waveguide section and a second proximal end to which a second interface waveguide is coupled; coupling the first electromagnetic signal into a second interface waveguide; coupling the first electromagnetic signal to a second antenna; and wherein the rotary joint is configured to allow the first waveguide section to rotate with respect to the second waveguide section.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: transmitting by a first communication chip, the first electromagnetic signal into the first interface waveguide; and receiving by second communication chip, the first electromagnetic signal from the second interface waveguide.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first communication chip is part of a light detection and ranging (LIDAR) sensor included in the sensor unit.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: coupling, by a third interface waveguide, a second electromagnetic signal from a third antenna into the second waveguide section; coupling the second electromagnetic signal from the second waveguide section to the bearing waveguide section of the rotary joint; coupling the second electromagnetic signal from the bearing waveguide section to the first waveguide section; and coupling, by a fourth interface waveguide, the second electromagnetic signal to a fourth antenna.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: transmitting by a third communication chip, the second electromagnetic signal into a third interface waveguide; receiving by a fourth communication chip, the second electromagnetic signal from a fourth interface waveguide.
15. The method of claim 13, further comprising: transmitting by the second communication chip, the second electromagnetic signal into a third interface waveguide; receiving by the first communication chip, the second electromagnetic signal from a fourth interface waveguide.
16. The method of claim 10, further comprising providing a rotation of the bearing waveguide with respect to the first waveguide section.
17. The method of claim 10, further comprising providing a rotation of the bearing waveguide with respect to the second waveguide section.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein the first and second electromagnetic signals have a frequency between 50 and 100 Gigahertz.
19. A vehicle comprising: a sensor unit comprising at least one first communication chip comprising a first antenna and a second antenna; at least one second communication chip disposed at a location different from the sensor unit comprising a third antenna and a fourth antenna, wherein the at least one first communication chip and the at least one second communication chip are configured to engage in two-way communication with each other; a rotary joint, comprising a bearing waveguide; a first electrical coupling comprising: a first plurality of interface waveguides configured to couple electromagnetic signals to and from the first antenna and the second antenna, a first waveguide section including: a first distal end bordering the bearing waveguide, a first proximal end to which the first plurality of interface waveguides are coupled; a second electrical coupling, comprising: a second plurality of interface waveguides configured to couple electromagnetic signals to and from the first antenna and the second antenna, a second waveguide section including: a second distal end bordering the bearing waveguide, a second proximal end to which the second plurality of interface waveguides are coupled, and a second plurality of interface waveguides configured to couple electromagnetic signals to and from the third antenna and the fourth antenna; and wherein the bearing waveguide of the rotary joint is configured to allow the first electrical coupling to rotate with respect to the second electrical coupling, and wherein the bearing waveguide allows electromagnetic signals to propagate between the first waveguide section and the second waveguide section.
20. The vehicle of claim 19, further comprising: a LIDAR processor disposed at a location different from the sensor unit, wherein the sensor unit is configured to rotate with respect to the LIDAR processor; and wherein the at least one first communication chip is part of a light detection and ranging (LIDAR) sensor included in the sensor unit.
</claims>
</document>
