<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N5/02,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FARCHI, EITAN DANIEL
ROUTRAY, RAMANI
RAZ, ORNA
PERERA, PATHIRAGE DININDU SUJAN UDAYANGA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74058691
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ESTIMATING FEASIBILITY AND EFFORT FOR A MACHINE LEARNING SOLUTION
</title>

<abstract>
A method, computer system, and a computer program product for assessing a likelihood of success associated with developing at least one machine learning (ML) solution is provided. The present invention may include generating a set of questions based on a set of raw training data. The present invention may also include computing a feasibility score based on an answer corresponding with each question from the generated set of questions. The present invention may then include, in response to determining that the computed feasibility score satisfies a threshold, computing a level of effort associated with developing the at least one ML solution to address a problem. The present invention may further include presenting, to a user, a plurality of results associated with assessing the likelihood of success of the at least one ML solution.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: generating a set of questions based on a set of raw training data; computing a feasibility score based on an answer corresponding with each question from the generated set of questions; in response to determining that the computed feasibility score satisfies a threshold, computing a level of effort associated with developing at least one machine learning (ML) solution to address a problem; and presenting, to a user, a plurality of results associated with assessing a likelihood of success of the at least one ML solution.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the set of questions based on the set of raw training data, further comprises: receiving the set of raw training data; identifying one or more best practices from the received set of raw training data, and one or more shortfalls from the received set of raw training data; extracting the generated set of questions from the identified one or more best practices and the identified one or more shortfalls; and aggregating the generated set of questions with a phase of developing the at least one ML solution.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: retrieving the answer corresponding with each question from the generated set of questions, wherein the retrieved answer corresponding with each question from the generated set of questions is binary.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: assigning a numeric value to each retrieved answer corresponding with each question; and computing the feasibility score based on a sum of assigned numeric value to the retrieved answers to the generated set of questions.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to determining that the computed feasibility score fails to satisfy the threshold, prompting the user; and identifying at least one recommendation to analyze a plurality of factors associated with the computed feasibility score, wherein the identified at least one recommendation is selected from a group consisting of searching for at least one additional set of raw training data, redefining one or more learning goals, and examining each question from the generated set of questions with a retrieved answer that is negative.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein in response to determining that the computed feasibility score satisfies the threshold, computing the level of effort, further comprises: decomposing the problem associated with the at least one ML solution based on a plurality of rule-based parts, wherein the plurality of rule-based parts determine whether the at least one ML solution resolves the decomposed problem; and classifying the at least one ML solution, wherein one or more labels for classifying the at least one ML solution includes successful or unsuccessful.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the presented plurality of results includes the computed feasibility score, the computed level of effort, and a decomposition associated with the computed level of effort.
8. A computer system for assessing a likelihood of success associated with developing at least one machine learning (ML) solution, comprising: one or more processors, one or more computer-readable memories, one or more computer-readable tangible storage medium, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more tangible storage medium for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories further comprise program instructions to cause the computer system to perform a method comprising: generating a set of questions based on a set of raw training data; computing a feasibility score based on an answer corresponding with each question from the generated set of questions; in response to determining that the computed feasibility score satisfies a threshold, computing a level of effort associated with developing the at least one ML solution to address a problem; and presenting, to a user, a plurality of results associated with assessing the likelihood of success of the at least one ML solution.
9. The computer system of claim 8, wherein generating the set of questions based on the set of raw training data, further comprises: receiving the set of raw training data; identifying one or more best practices from the received set of raw training data, and one or more shortfalls from the received set of raw training data; extracting the generated set of questions from the identified one or more best practices and the identified one or more shortfalls; and aggregating the generated set of questions with a phase of developing the at least one ML solution.
10. The computer system of claim 8, further comprising: retrieving the answer corresponding with each question from the generated set of questions, wherein the retrieved answer corresponding with each question from the generated set of questions is binary.
11. The computer system of claim 10, further comprising: assigning a numeric value to each retrieved answer corresponding with each question; and computing the feasibility score based on a sum of assigned numeric value to the retrieved answers to the generated set of questions.
12. The computer system of claim 8, further comprising: in response to determining that the computed feasibility score fails to satisfy the threshold, prompting the user; and identifying at least one recommendation to analyze a plurality of factors associated with the computed feasibility score, wherein the identified at least one recommendation is selected from a group consisting of searching for at least one additional set of raw training data, redefining one or more learning goals, and examining each question from the generated set of questions with a retrieved answer that is negative.
13. The computer system of claim 8, wherein in response to determining that the computed feasibility score satisfies the threshold, computing the level of effort, further comprises: decomposing the problem associated with the at least one ML solution based on a plurality of rule-based parts, wherein the plurality of rule-based parts determine whether the at least one ML solution resolves the decomposed problem; and classifying the at least one ML solution, wherein one or more labels for classifying the at least one ML solution includes successful or unsuccessful.
14. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the presented plurality of results includes the computed feasibility score, the computed level of effort, and a decomposition associated with the computed level of effort.
15. A computer program product for assessing a likelihood of success associated with developing at least one machine learning (ML) solution, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by processor to cause the computer to perform the method comprising: generating a set of questions based on a set of raw training data; computing a feasibility score based on an answer corresponding with each question from the generated set of questions; in response to determining that the computed feasibility score satisfies a threshold, computing a level of effort associated with developing the at least one ML solution to address a problem; and presenting, to a user, a plurality of results associated with assessing the likelihood of success of the at least one ML solution.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein generating the set of questions based on the set of raw training data, further comprises: receiving the set of raw training data; identifying one or more best practices from the received set of raw training data, and one or more shortfalls from the received set of raw training data; extracting the generated set of questions from the identified one or more best practices and the identified one or more shortfalls; and aggregating the generated set of questions with a phase of developing the at least one ML solution.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, further comprising: retrieving the answer corresponding with each question from the generated set of questions, wherein the retrieved answer corresponding with each question from the generated set of questions is binary.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, further comprising: assigning a numeric value to each retrieved answer corresponding with each question; and computing the feasibility score based on a sum of assigned numeric value to the retrieved answers to the generated set of questions.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, further comprising: in response to determining that the computed feasibility score fails to satisfy the threshold, prompting the user; and identifying at least one recommendation to analyze a plurality of factors associated with the computed feasibility score, wherein the identified at least one recommendation is selected from a group consisting of searching for at least one additional set of raw training data, redefining one or more learning goals, and examining each question from the generated set of questions with a retrieved answer that is negative.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein in response to determining that the computed feasibility score satisfies the threshold, computing the level of effort, further comprises: decomposing the problem associated with the at least one ML solution based on a plurality of rule-based parts, wherein the plurality of rule-based parts determine whether the at least one ML solution resolves the decomposed problem; and classifying the at least one ML solution, wherein one or more labels for classifying the at least one ML solution includes successful or unsuccessful.
</claims>
</document>
