<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/063,G11C11/54,G11C13/00,H01L27/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEWIS SCOTT C.
NARAYANAN, PRITISH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70160380
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS FOR DEEP LEARNING OPERATIONS ON RESISTIVE CROSSBAR ARRAY
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method are shown for both forward and reverse read operations in a neuromorphic crossbar array that is part of an artificial neural network (ANN). During a forward read operation, a plurality of neuron activations are encoded into a pulse width drive array word line that gates a cell access transistor. A source-follower transistor is biased at a source follower voltage (VRDP) and a column voltage node (BLV) is held at read voltage (VREAD). During a reverse read operation, the cell access transistor operates as another source follower by: encoding a neuron error signal into the column voltage node (BLV), driving a gate line of the cell access transistor to the source follower voltage (VRDP), and holding an intermediate node between the cell access transistor of (a) and the source-follower transistor of (b) at the read voltage (VREAD).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A circuit for both forward and reverse read operations on a neuromorphic crossbar array that is part of an artificial neural network (ANN), the circuit comprising: (a) a cell access transistor for each cell of the ANN, a gate terminal of the cell access transistor connected to a word line (WL) of the array, wherein the cell access transistor, in a forward read operation, carries a pulse width signal encoding an activation of a single neuron in the ANN; (b) a source-follower transistor for each cell of the ANN, which in a forward read operation is biased at a source follower voltage (VRDP) to hold a column voltage node (BLV) at read voltage (VREAD), and which in a reverse read operation is disconnected, wherein a variable resistor connects the cell access transistor and the source-follower transistor, the variable resistor implementing a portion or entirety of a synaptic weight in the ANN; and wherein the cell access transistor, in a reverse read operation, operates as another source follower by: encoding a neuron error signal into the column voltage node (BLV), driving a gate line of the cell access transistor to the source follower voltage (VRDP), and holding an intermediate node between the cell access transistor of (a) and the source-follower transistor of (b) at the read voltage (VREAD).
2. The circuit of claim 1, wherein the OFF-state column voltage node BLV is picked to be larger than the source follower voltage (VRDP) to eliminate current leakage.
3. The circuit of claim 1, wherein neurons in the ANN are implemented with CMOS circuitry.
4. The circuit of claim 1, wherein the synaptic weight is implemented using an analog memory element.
5. The circuit of claim 4, wherein the analog memory element is a non-volatile memory (NVM) element.
6. The circuit of claim 5, wherein the NVM element is selected from the group consisting of: phase-change memory elements, resistive random access memory elements, and conducting bridge random access memory elements.
7. A circuit for both forward and reverse read operations on a neuromorphic crossbar array that is part of an artificial neural network (ANN), wherein a synaptic weight of each synapse in the ANN is represented by a pair of conductances, G+ and G−, respectively, the circuit comprising: (a) a cell access transistor for each cell of the ANN, a gate terminal of the cell access transistor connected to a word line (WL) of the array, wherein the cell access transistor, in a forward read operation, carries a pulse width signal encoding an activation of a single neuron in the ANN; (b) a source-follower transistor for each cell of the ANN, which in a forward read operation is biased at a source follower voltage (VRDP) to hold a column voltage node (BLV) at read voltage (VREAD), and which in a reverse read operation is disconnected; (c) a resistive element connecting the cell access transistor and the source-follower transistor, wherein the conductance of the resistive element represents either the positive weight contribution conductance, G+, or the negative weight contribution conductance, G−; wherein the cell access transistor, in a reverse read operation, operates as another source follower by: encoding a neuron error signal into the column voltage node (BLV), driving a gate line of the cell access transistor to the source follower voltage (VRDP), and holding an intermediate node between the cell access transistor of (a) and the source-follower transistor of (b) at the read voltage (VREAD), and wherein the OFF-state column voltage node BLV is picked to be larger than the source follower voltage (VRDP) to eliminate current leakage, and the ON-state column voltage of node (BLV) is picked to be GND so that a current versus conductance behavior is linear over a predetermined range of conductance values.
8. The circuit of claim 7, wherein the conductances G+ and G− are implemented using Phase Change Memory (PCM) based devices.
9. The circuit of claim 7, wherein neurons in the ANN are implemented with CMOS circuitry.
10. The circuit of claim 7, wherein the synaptic weight of each synapse in the ANN is implemented using an analog memory element.
11. The circuit of claim 10, wherein the analog memory element is a non-volatile memory (NVM) element.
12. The circuit of claim 11, wherein the NVM element is selected from the group consisting of: phase-change memory elements, resistive random access memory elements, and conducting bridge random access memory elements.
13. A method for both forward and reverse read operations in a neuromorphic crossbar array that is part of an artificial neural network (ANN), the method comprising: (a) during a forward read operation, encoding a plurality of neuron activations into a pulse width drive array word line that gates a cell access transistor; (b) biasing a source-follower transistor at a source follower voltage (VRDP) and holding a column voltage node (BLV) at read voltage (VREAD); and (c) during a reverse read operation, operating the cell access transistor as another source follower by: encoding a neuron error signal into the column voltage node (BLV), driving a gate line of the cell access transistor to the source follower voltage (VRDP), and holding an intermediate node between the cell access transistor of (a) and the source-follower transistor of (b) at the read voltage (VREAD).
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the column voltage node (BLV) is picked to be larger than the source follower voltage (VRDP) to eliminate current leakage.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein neurons in the ANN are implemented with CMOS circuitry.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein a synaptic weight of each synapse in the ANN is implemented using an analog memory element.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the analog memory element is a non-volatile memory (NVM) element.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the NVM element is selected from the group consisting of: phase-change memory element, resistive random access memory element, and conducting bridge random access memory element.
19. A method for executing both forward and reverse read operations on a neuromorphic crossbar array, the array including (i) synaptic cells having analog resistive synaptic elements in series with respective transistors and (ii) horizontal and vertical inputs, wherein certain synaptic cells are to conduct current while the other synaptic cells are to conduct less current, the method comprising: applying voltage pulses to the horizontal and vertical inputs of the array, so that said certain synaptic cells conduct current, while said other cells have leakage currents whose sum is less than a fraction of the sum of the currents through said selected synaptic cells.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein reverse read operations are achieved by applying pulses to vertical bit-lines, while applying a constant voltage to the gate terminal of the transistor, the constant voltage being selected so that either: (i) currents are allowed to pass through said certain cells, wherein the transistors in said certain cells are operating in source-follower mode, or (ii) the transistors in said other cells are operating in cut-off mode, thereby reducing the leakage through them.
21. The method of claim 19, wherein the method is implemented in an artificial neural network, with neurons in the ANN are implemented with CMOS circuitry.
22. The method of claim 19, wherein the method is implemented in an artificial neural network, with a synaptic weight of each synapse in the ANN is implemented using an analog memory element.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the analog memory element is a non-volatile memory (NVM) element.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the NVM element is selected from the group consisting of: phase-change memory element, resistive random access memory element, and conducting bridge random access memory element.
</claims>
</document>
