<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60K6/28,B60R16/023,G06F1/26,G06F1/3203,G06F13/10,H02J7/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DENSO INTERNATIONAL AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
VARUGHESE, SIBU
NESPOLO, MARTIN
WEBB, GARETH
Abrego, Christopher
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74037898
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Managing electrical power delivery to a peripheral device in a vehicle
</title>

<abstract>
System, methods, and other embodiments described herein relate to managing electrical power delivery to a peripheral device in a vehicle. In one embodiment, a method includes, receiving, at a vehicle-side controller via a communication channel, a request from the peripheral device to modify the electrical power delivery to the peripheral device. The method includes, in response to identifying that the request is for an increase to the electrical power delivery, determining an electrical loading of the vehicle. The method also includes communicating a message over the communication channel to the peripheral device that causes the peripheral device to manage the electrical power delivery according to whether the electrical loading satisfies a loading threshold of the vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicle-side controller for managing electrical power delivery to a peripheral device in a vehicle, comprising: one or more processors; a memory communicably coupled to the one or more processors and storing: an evaluation module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: receive, via a communication channel, a request from the peripheral device to modify the electrical power delivery to the peripheral device, and in response to identifying that the request is for an increase to the electrical power delivery, determine an electrical loading of the vehicle; and a communication module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to communicate a message over the communication channel to the peripheral device that causes the peripheral device to manage the electrical power delivery according to whether the electrical loading satisfies a loading threshold of the vehicle.
2. The vehicle-side controller of claim 1, wherein the evaluation module includes instructions to analyze observations of a voltage and a current of a power delivery system of the vehicle that is connected to the peripheral device, and wherein the loading threshold is based at least in part on an electrical power limit of the power delivery system.
3. The vehicle-side controller of claim 1, wherein the evaluation module includes instructions to determine when an engine of the vehicle is in an off state, and wherein the loading threshold is based at least in part on the engine being in the off state.
4. The vehicle-side controller of claim 1, wherein the communication module includes instructions to communicate the message including instructions to generate the message to specify at least one of a wait time for requesting the increase again, a hold command to wait until further notified to request the increase again, a partial acceptance that a percentage of the increase is available, and a full acceptance of the increase is available.
5. The vehicle-side controller of claim 1, wherein the communication module includes instructions to communicate the message to manage the electrical power delivery including instructions to cause the peripheral device to respond by one or more maintaining a present electrical loading from a power delivery system of the vehicle, and executing a percentage of the increase from the power delivery system.
6. The vehicle-side controller of claim 1, wherein the communication module further includes instructions to, in response to identifying that the request is for a decrease to the electrical power delivery, communicate the message to initiate the decrease to the peripheral device that reduces the electrical power delivery at a ramp-down rate.
7. The vehicle-side controller of claim 1, wherein the communication channel includes at least one of a wired medium, a wireless medium and a fiber-optic medium.
8. A method for managing electrical power delivery to a peripheral device in a vehicle from a vehicle-side controller, comprising: receiving, at the vehicle-side controller via a communication channel, a request from the peripheral device to modify the electrical power delivery to the peripheral device; in response to identifying that the request is for an increase to the electrical power delivery, determining an electrical loading of the vehicle; and communicating a message over the communication channel to the peripheral device that causes the peripheral device to manage the electrical power delivery according to whether the electrical loading satisfies a loading threshold of the vehicle.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein evaluating the electrical loading includes analyzing observations of a voltage and a current of a power delivery system of the vehicle that is connected to the peripheral device, and wherein the loading threshold is based at least in part on an electrical power limit of the power delivery system.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein evaluating the electrical loading includes determining when an engine of the vehicle is in an off state, and wherein the loading threshold is based at least in part on the engine being in the off state.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein communicating the message includes generating the message to specify at least one of a wait time for requesting the increase again, a hold command to wait until further notified to request the increase again, a partial acceptance that a percentage of the increase is available, and a full acceptance of the increase is available.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein communicating the message to manage the electrical power delivery includes causing the peripheral device to respond by one or more maintaining a present electrical loading from a power delivery system of the vehicle and executing a percentage of the increase from the power delivery system.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising: in response to identifying that the request is for a decrease to the electrical power delivery, communicating the message to initiate the decrease to the peripheral device that reduces the electrical power delivery at a ramp-down rate.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the communication channel includes at least one of a wired medium, a wireless medium and a fiber-optic medium.
15. A method for managing electrical power delivery to a peripheral device connected with a power delivery system in a vehicle, comprising: determining power attributes for operating the peripheral device and current attributes of electrical power being delivered to the peripheral device over the power delivery system; transmitting a signal to a vehicle-side controller over a communication channel requesting a modification to the current attributes as a function of the power attributes in relation to the current attributes; and in response to one or more communications from the vehicle-side controller indicating adjustment attributes for selectively modifying the current attributes, executing one or more power management functions that change the current attributes.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein determining the current attributes includes analyzing sensor data from at least one sensor of the peripheral device to determine a voltage and a current delivered to the peripheral device at a current time.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein requesting the modification to the current attributes includes generating a request for one or more of: an increase to the electrical power delivery, a decrease to the electrical power delivery, and terminating the electrical power delivery.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the adjustment attributes include at least one of a wait time for requesting the modification again, a hold command to wait until further notified to request the modification again, and a percent change to the current attributes that is allowed to be modified at the current time.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein executing the one or more power management functions includes one of maintaining the current attributes according to the adjustment attributes, and executing a percent change to the current attributes according to the adjustment attributes, and wherein executing the percent change to the current attributes includes modifying an electrical loading of the power delivery system.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: modifying the electrical loading at a ramp-down rate when a request for modification to the current attributes is for one or more of a decrease to the electrical power delivery, and terminating the electrical power delivery.
</claims>
</document>
