<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/52,G06F21/55,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NXP SEMICONDUCTORS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MICHIELS, WILHELMUS PETRUS ADRIANUS JOHANNUS
DERKS, GERARDUS ANTONIUS FRANCISCUS
Ermans, Brian
VAN VREDENDAAL, CHRISTINE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70616954
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROTECTING A MACHINE LEARNING MODEL AGAINST EXTRACTION
</title>

<abstract>
A method for protecting a machine learning (ML) model is provided. During inference operation of the ML model, a plurality of input samples is provided to the ML model. A distribution of a plurality of output predictions from a predetermined node in the ML model is measured. If the distribution of the plurality of output predictions indicates correct output category prediction with low confidence, then the machine learning model is slowed to reduce a prediction rate of subsequent output predictions. If the distribution of the plurality of categories indicates correct output category prediction with a high confidence, then the machine learning model is not slowed to reduce the prediction rate of subsequent output predictions of the machine learning model. A moving average of the distribution may be used to determine the speed reduction. This makes a cloning attack on the ML model take longer with minimal impact to a legitimate user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for protecting a machine learning model, the method comprising: providing a machine learning model; during inference operation, providing a plurality of input samples to the machine learning model; receiving a plurality of output predictions from a predetermined node in the machine learning model in response to the plurality of input values; and measuring a distribution of the plurality of output predictions from the predetermined node, if the distribution of the plurality of output predictions indicates correct output category prediction with low confidence, then the machine learning model is slowed to reduce a prediction rate of subsequent output predictions of the machine learning model; and if the distribution of the plurality of predictions indicates correct output category prediction with a high confidence, then the machine learning model is not slowed to reduce the prediction rate of subsequent output predictions of the machine learning model.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: computing a moving average of the distribution over a predetermined number of output category predictions from one user; and using the resulting moving average to determine a speed of the output category predictions.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model comprises a neural network, decision tree, random forest, or support vector machine.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the predetermined node is characterized as being a node in a last hidden layer before an output layer of the neural network.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the prediction rate is slowed by providing a hidden layer of delay nodes in the neural network.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the delay nodes each further comprise a feedback loop with a delay element.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring a distribution further comprises comparing each of the plurality of output predictions to a threshold.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein how much the prediction rate is slowed is proportional to a moving average of a plurality of output predictions from an intermediate layer of the machine learning model.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined node is an output node of the machine learning model.
10. A method comprising: providing a machine learning model; during inference operation, providing a plurality of input samples to the machine learning model; determining an output prediction category for each of the plurality of input samples; and determining a distribution of a plurality of output predictions from a predetermined node of the machine learning model, if the distribution of the plurality of output predictions indicates correct output category prediction with a confidence at least as high as a confidence of a previously generated output prediction, then a prediction rate of subsequently generated output values of the machine learning model is not reduced, and if the distribution of the plurality of output predictions indicates correct output category prediction with a lower confidence than a confidence of a previously generated output prediction, then the machine learning model is slowed to reduce the prediction rate of subsequently generated output predictions.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the machine learning model comprises one of a neural network, decision tree, random forest, or support vector machine.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the predetermined node is characterized as being a node in a last hidden layer before an output layer of the neural network.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the prediction rate is slowed by providing a hidden layer of delay nodes in the neural network.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the delay nodes each further comprise a feedback loop with a delay element.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the prediction rate is proportional to a moving average of the distribution of the plurality of output predictions, wherein the prediction rate is decreased for widening distribution and increased for narrowing distribution.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein the prediction rate is proportional to a moving average of the confidences of previously generated output predictions.
17. A machine learning system, comprising: a machine learning model for generating output category predictions corresponding to input samples received by the machine learning model; and a machine learning protection circuit for receiving the output category predictions from the machine learning model, and in response, determining a distribution of the output category predictions, wherein a prediction rate of subsequently generated output category predictions is determined by the distribution of previously generated output category predictions, wherein determining the distribution is widening decreases the prediction rate and determining the distribution is narrowing does not decrease the prediction rate.
18. The machine learning system of claim 17, wherein the machine learning model is one of either a neural network, a decision tree, a random forest, or a support vector machine.
19. The machine learning system of claim 18, wherein the predetermined node is characterized as being a node in a last hidden layer before an output layer of the machine learning model.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the prediction rate is proportional to a moving average of the distribution, wherein the prediction rate is decreased for a widening moving average of the distribution and not decreased for a narrowing moving average of the distribution.
</claims>
</document>
