<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/18,G06F21/57,G06F9/54,G06N20/20,G06Q10/06,H04L9/06,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PICKOVER CLIFFORD A.
KOZLOSKI, JAMES R.
ZAMORA DURAN, EDGAR A.
WELDEMARIAM, KOMMINIST
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70458651
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SENSOR RISK ASSESSMENT DATABASE
</title>

<abstract>
An example operation may include one or more of receiving sensor data from one or more sensors associated with a building, storing a block including the sensor data to a shared ledger of a blockchain network, the one or more sensors associated with one or more buildings, requesting a risk assessment for the sensor data, by a blockchain node, calculating the risk assessment with one or more machine learning algorithms based on the sensor data, historical sensor blockchain data, importance of the one or more sensors, and a degree of concern related to the sensor data, providing the risk assessment to the blockchain node, and generating an alert in response to the risk assessment above a threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a blockchain network, comprising: a first blockchain node, configured to: receive sensor data from one or more sensors associated with a building; and create a blockchain transaction comprising the sensor data, the blockchain transaction configured to store the sensor data to a shared ledger of the blockchain network; a second blockchain node, configured to: request a risk assessment based on the sensor data; and a third blockchain node, configured to: calculate the risk assessment with one or more machine learning algorithms based on the sensor data, historical sensor blockchain data, importance of the one or more sensors, and a degree of concern related to the sensor data; provide the risk assessment to the second blockchain node; and generate an alert in response to the risk assessment above a threshold.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein in response to the risk assessment compared to the threshold, the first blockchain node further configured to change a rate of added new sensor data from the one or more sensors to new blocks of the blockchain network.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein in response to the risk assessment above the threshold, the first blockchain node further configured to: stop operation of the one or more sensors; and request a software or firmware update for the one or more sensors.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the second blockchain node comprises a stakeholder in the building, the stakeholder comprises one or more of a tenant, an owner, a landlord, a manager, a maintenance contractor, or a construction contractor, wherein the stakeholder requests the risk assessment.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the blockchain network comprises a smart contract for managing and validating risks associated with connected buildings.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein in response to the first blockchain node receives the sensor data, the first blockchain node further is configured to attempt to validate importance of the sensor data with a smart contract, wherein in response to the first blockchain node does not validate importance of the sensor data, the block is not stored to the shared ledger.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the third blockchain node provides the risk assessment comprises the third blockchain node is further configured to create a blockchain transaction that comprises an indication the one or more sensors are to be disposed of based on the first blockchain node executes the smart contract.
8. A method, comprising: receiving sensor data from one or more sensors associated with a building; storing a block comprising the sensor data to a shared ledger of a blockchain network, the one or more sensors being associated with one or more buildings; requesting a risk assessment for the sensor data, by a blockchain node; calculating the risk assessment with one or more machine learning algorithms based on the sensor data, historical sensor blockchain data, importance of the one or more sensors, and a degree of concern related to the sensor data; providing the risk assessment to the blockchain node; and generating an alert in response to the risk assessment above a threshold.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein in response to the risk assessment compared to the threshold, the method further comprising: changing a rate of adding new sensor data from the one or more sensors to new blocks of the blockchain network.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein in response to the risk assessment above a threshold, the method further comprising one or more of: stopping operation of the one or more sensors; and requesting a software or firmware update for the one or more sensors.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the blockchain node comprising a stakeholder in the building, the stakeholder comprising one or more of a tenant, an owner, a landlord, a manager, a maintenance contractor, or a construction contractor, wherein the stakeholder requests the risk assessment.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising: creating a smart contract for managing and validating risks associated with connected buildings.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein in response to receiving the sensor data, the method further comprising: attempting to validate importance of the sensor data by a validating blockchain node, wherein in response to not validating the sensor data, not storing the block to the shared ledger.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein providing the risk assessment comprising: creating a blockchain transaction comprising an indication the one or more sensors are to be disposed of based on executing a smart contract or chaincode by the validating blockchain node.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions, that when read by a processor, cause the processor to perform: receiving sensor data from one or more sensors associated with a building; storing a block comprising the sensor data to a shared ledger of a blockchain network, the one or more sensors associated with one or more buildings; requesting a risk assessment for the sensor data, by a blockchain node; calculating the risk assessment with one or more machine learning algorithms based on the sensor data, historical sensor blockchain data, importance of the one or more sensors, and a degree of concern related to the sensor data; providing the risk assessment to the blockchain node; and generating an alert in response to the risk assessment above a threshold.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein in response to the risk assessment compared to the threshold, the method further comprising one or more of: changing a rate of adding new sensor data from the one or more sensors to new blocks of the blockchain network; or stopping operation of the one or more sensors; and requesting a software or firmware update for the one or more sensors.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the blockchain node comprising a stakeholder in the building, the stakeholder comprising one or more of a tenant, an owner, a landlord, a manager, a maintenance contractor, or a construction contractor, wherein the stakeholder requests the risk assessment.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, further comprising: creating a smart contract for managing and validating risks associated with connected buildings.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein in response to receiving the sensor data, the method further comprising: attempting to validate importance of the sensor data, by a validating blockchain node, wherein in response to not validating the sensor data, not storing the block to the shared ledger.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein providing the risk assessment comprising: creating a blockchain transaction comprising an indication the one or more sensors are to be disposed of based on executing a smart contract or chaincode by the validating blockchain node.
</claims>
</document>
