<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SOLERA HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
STUCKI, PASCAL
STUCKI, MANUEL
RUIZ, ROCIO SANCHEZ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69883236
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Apparatus and Method for Providing an Electronic User Manual
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes accessing an image captured by a camera and identifying a user object within the captured image. The method further includes determining a vehicle or consumer product associated with the captured image and accessing stored data associated with the determined vehicle or consumer product. The method further includes determining, using the stored data and the identified user object, information about the identified user object. The method further includes displaying the information about the identified user object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: one or more computer processors; a camera; and one or more memory units communicatively coupled to the one or more computer processors, the one or more memory units comprising instructions executable by the one or more computer processors, the one or more computer processors being operable when executing the instructions to: access an image captured by the camera; identify a user object within the captured image; determine a vehicle or consumer product associated with the captured image; access stored data associated with the determined vehicle or consumer product; determine, using the stored data and the identified user object, information about the identified user object; and display the determined information about the identified user object.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the user object is a switch, button, or indicator light.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the information about the identified user object comprises: an explanation regarding function of the identified user object; or a recommendation for action regarding the identified user object.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein identifying the user object within the captured image comprises: classifying, using an image classification process, the captured image as either an image of a dashboard or an image of a button; when the captured image is classified as an image of a dashboard, identify the user object as a particular warning lamp by comparing the captured image to a plurality of stored models of warning lamps; and when the captured image is classified as an image of a button, identify the user object as a particular button by comparing the captured image to a plurality of stored models of buttons.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the stored data associated with the determined vehicle or consumer product comprises an electronic user manual for the vehicle or consumer product.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the vehicle comprises an automobile, a motorcycle, a truck, a recreational vehicle, a construction vehicle, an airplane, or a helicopter.
7. A method, comprising: accessing, by one or more computing systems, an image captured by a camera; identifying, by the one or more computing systems, a user object within the captured image; determining, by the one or more computing systems, a vehicle or consumer product associated with the captured image; accessing, by the one or more computing systems, stored data associated with the determined vehicle or consumer product; determining, by the one or more computing systems, using the stored data and the identified user object, information about the identified user object; and displaying, by the one or more computing systems, the information about the identified user object.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the user object is a switch, button, or indicator light.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the information about the identified user object comprises: an explanation regarding function of the identified user object; or a recommendation for action regarding the identified user object.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein identifying the user object within the captured image comprises: classifying, using an image classification process, the captured image as either an image of a dashboard or an image of a button; when the captured image is classified as an image of a dashboard, identify the user object as a particular warning lamp by comparing the captured image to a plurality of stored models of warning lamps; and when the captured image is classified as an image of a button, identify the user object as a particular button by comparing the captured image to a plurality of stored models of buttons.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein the stored data associated with the determined vehicle or consumer product comprises an electronic user manual for the vehicle or consumer product.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein the vehicle comprises an automobile, a motorcycle, a truck, a recreational vehicle, a construction vehicle, an airplane, or a helicopter.
13. The method of claim 7, wherein determining the vehicle or consumer product associated with the captured image comprises: accessing a user-selection of the vehicle or consumer product; or accessing a unique identification of the vehicle or consumer product.
14. One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying one or more units of software that are operable when executed to: access an image captured by a camera; identify a user object within the captured image; determine a vehicle or consumer product associated with the captured image; access stored data associated with the determined vehicle or consumer product; determine, using the stored data and the identified user object, information about the identified user object; and display the information about the identified user object.
15. The one or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media of claim 14, wherein the user object is a switch, button, or indicator light.
16. The one or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media of claim 14, wherein the information about the identified user object comprises: an explanation regarding function of the identified user object; or a recommendation for action regarding the identified user object.
17. The one or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media of claim 14, wherein identifying the user object within the captured image comprises: classifying, using an image classification process, the captured image as either an image of a dashboard or an image of a button; when the captured image is classified as an image of a dashboard, identify the user object as a particular warning lamp by comparing the captured image to a plurality of stored models of warning lamps; and when the captured image is classified as an image of a button, identify the user object as a particular button by comparing the captured image to a plurality of stored models of buttons.
18. The one or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media of claim 14, wherein the stored data associated with the determined vehicle or consumer product comprises an electronic user manual for the vehicle or consumer product.
19. The one or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media of claim 14, wherein the vehicle comprises an automobile, a motorcycle, a truck, a recreational vehicle, a construction vehicle, an airplane, or a helicopter.
20. The one or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media of claim 14, wherein determining the vehicle or consumer product associated with the captured image comprises: accessing a user-selection of the vehicle or consumer product; or accessing a unique identification of the vehicle or consumer product.
</claims>
</document>
