<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,H04N5/247,H04N5/33,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
AKKAYA, ONUR CAN
ALI, RIAZ IMDAD
FENTON, MICHAEL SCOTT
ORTIZ EGEA, SERGIO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69411532
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MONITORING ACTIVITY WITH DEPTH AND MULTI-SPECTRAL CAMERA
</title>

<abstract>
A camera system is configured to automatically monitor an area. Depth image(s) of the area are acquired based on active IR light emitted by the camera system and reflected from the area to a sensor array of the camera system. The depth image(s) are computer analyzed to identify a human subject. For each spectral illuminator of the camera system, spectral light image(s) of the area are acquired based on active spectral light in the spectral light sub-band of the spectral illuminator reflected from the area to the sensor array. The spectral light image(s) for the spectral illuminators are computer analyzed to identify an interaction between the human subject and an object in the area. In response to identifying the interaction between the human subject and the object in the area, an action to be performed for the object in the area is computer issued.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A camera system configured to automatically monitor an area, the camera system comprising: a sensor array including a plurality of sensors; an infrared (IR) illuminator configured to emit active IR light in an IR light sub-band; a plurality of spectral illuminators, each spectral illuminator configured to emit active spectral light in a different spectral light sub-band; one or more logic machines; and one or more storage machines holding instructions executable by the one or more logic machines to: address the plurality of sensors of the sensor array without active illumination from the IR illuminator and without active illumination from the plurality of spectral illuminators to acquire one or more images of the area; computer analyze the one or more images to identify an above-threshold motion; in response to identifying the above-threshold motion: activate the IR illuminator to illuminate at least a first portion of the area with the active IR light, and address the plurality of sensors of the sensor array to acquire one or more depth images of the first portion of the area based on active IR light reflected from the first portion of the area, computer analyze the one or more depth images to identify a human subject; in response to identifying the human subject, for each spectral illuminator of the plurality of spectral illuminators: activate the spectral illuminator to illuminate a second portion of the area with the active spectral light in a spectral light sub-band of the spectral illuminator, address the plurality of sensors of the sensor array to acquire one or more spectral light images of the second portion of the area based on active spectral light in the spectral light sub-band of the spectral illuminator reflected from the second portion of the area, computer analyze at least the one or more spectral light images to identify an interaction between the human subject and an object in the area, and in response to identifying the interaction between the human subject and the object, computer issue an action to be performed for the object in the area.
2. The camera system of claim 1, wherein the one or more storage machines hold instructions executable by the one or more logic machines to: computer recognize that the human subject is a shopper, and wherein the action includes a retail action of computer associating the object in the area with the shopper.
3. The camera system of claim 1, wherein the action includes a retail action of sending to a retail computer a notification to restock the object in the area.
4. The camera system of claim 1, wherein the interaction includes the human subject picking up the object and then replacing the object in the area, and wherein the action includes a retail action of sending to a retail computer a notification to inspect the object.
5. The camera system of claim 1, wherein the one or more storage machines hold instructions executable by the one or more logic machines to: computer analyze the one or more depth images and/or the one or more spectral light images to determine a volume of the object, and wherein the action includes a retail action of associating a cost with the object based on a weight of the object that is derived from the determined volume of the object.
6. The camera system of claim 1, further comprising: a peripheral pressure sensor configured to generate a pressure signal that indicates whether or not the object is positioned on the peripheral pressure sensor; and wherein the interaction between the human subject and the object is further identified based on the pressure signal.
7. The camera system of claim 6, wherein the action includes a retail action of associating a cost with the object based on a weight of the object that is derived from the pressure signal.
8. The camera system of claim 1, wherein the one or more storage machines hold instructions executable by the one or more logic machines to: measure a spectral signature of the object based on the one or more spectral light images and the one or more depth images; and computer identify the object based on the measured spectral signature.
9. The camera system of claim 1, wherein the sensor array, the IR illuminator, and the plurality of spectral illuminators are positioned above the area.
10. The camera system of claim 1, wherein the sensor array, the IR illuminator, and the plurality of spectral illuminators are incorporated into a head-mounted device wearable by the human subject.
11. The camera system of claim 1, wherein the sensor array, the IR illuminator, and the plurality of spectral illuminators are incorporated into a shopping cart or basket.
12. A method for automatically monitoring an area, the method comprising: addressing a plurality of sensors of a sensor array of a camera without active illumination from an IR illuminator of the camera and without active spectral illumination from a plurality of spectral illuminators of the camera to acquire one or more images of the area; computer analyzing the one or more images to identify an above-threshold motion; in response to identifying the above-threshold motion: activating the IR illuminator to illuminate at least a first portion of the retail shopping area with the active IR light, and addressing the plurality of sensors of the sensor array to acquire one or more depth images of the first portion of the area based on active IR light reflected from the first portion of the area, computer analyzing the one or more depth images to identify a human subject; in response to identifying the human subject, for each spectral illuminator of the plurality of spectral illuminators: activating the spectral illuminator to illuminate a second portion of the area with the active spectral light in a spectral light sub-band of the spectral illuminator, addressing the plurality of sensors of the sensor array to acquire one or more spectral light images of the second portion of the area based on active spectral light in the spectral light sub-band of the spectral illuminator reflected from the second portion of the area, computer analyzing at least the one or more spectral light images to identify an interaction between the human subject and an object in the area, and in response to identifying the interaction between the human subject and the object, computer issuing an action to be performed for the object in the area.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: computer recognizing that the human subject is a shopper, and wherein the action includes a retail action of computer associating the object in the area with the shopper.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the action includes a retail action of sending to a retail computer a notification to restock the object for purchase.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the interaction includes the human subject picking up the object and then replacing the object in the area, and wherein the action includes a retail action of sending to a retail computer a notification to inspect the object.
16. The method of claim 12, further comprising: computer analyzing the one or more depth images and/or the one or more spectral light images to determine a volume of the object, and wherein the action includes a retail action of associating a cost with the object based on a weight of the object that is derived from the determined volume of the object.
17. The method of claim 12, further comprising: generating, via a peripheral pressure sensor, a pressure signal that indicates whether or not the object is positioned on the peripheral pressure sensor; and wherein the interaction between the human subject and the object is further identified based on the pressure signal.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the action includes a retail action of associating a cost with the object based on a weight of the object that is derived from the pressure signal.
19. The method of claim 12, further comprising: measuring a spectral signature of the object based on the one or more spectral light images and the one or more depth images; and computer identifying the object based on the measured spectral signature.
20. A multi-camera system configured to automatically monitor a retail shopping area, the multi-camera system comprising: a plurality of cameras positioned above the retail shopping area, each camera positioned to have a different field of view of the retail shopping area, each camera of the plurality of cameras comprising: a sensor array including a plurality of sensors; an infrared (IR) illuminator configured to emit active IR light in an IR light sub-band; a plurality of spectral illuminators, each spectral illuminator configured to emit active spectral light in a different spectral light sub-band; one or more logic machines; and one or more storage machines holding instructions executable by the one or more logic machines to: acquire a plurality of depth images of the retail shopping area via the plurality of cameras, each depth image based on active IR light reflected from the retail shopping area, computer analyze the plurality of depth images to identify a human subject, acquire a plurality of spectral light images of the retail shopping area via the plurality of cameras, each spectral light image based on active spectral light in a spectral light sub-band of a spectral illuminator of the camera reflected from the retail shopping area, computer analyze at least the plurality of spectral light images to identify an interaction between the human subject and an object for purchase, and in response to identifying the interaction between the human subject and the object for purchase, computer issue a retail action to be performed for the object for purchase.
</claims>
</document>
