<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-02-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,H04L29/06,H04L9/06,H04L9/08,H04L9/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ARC BIO
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDERSON, JASON MICHAEL
COSTE, PABLO G.
OLIVARES-AMAYA, ROBERTO
QUIROZ-ZARATE, ALEJANDRO
SINCLAIR, DAVID ANDREW
WATSON, JR., THOMAS J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56615079
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS, DEVICES, AND METHODS FOR ENCRYPTING GENETIC INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, devices, and methods for encrypting genetic information are provided herein. Also provided herein are systems, devices, and methods for encrypting compressed genetic data, transmitting encrypted compressed genetic data, and receiving, storing, accessing encrypted compressed genetic data. In some cases, a user interface is in communication with a system or device provided herein
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-28. (canceled)
29. A method for encrypting genetic information, the method comprising: receiving genetic information comprising data generated using a genetic sequencing device; parsing the genetic information into multiple nodes of a graph, wherein each of the multiple nodes represents at least one read of a plurality of reads having a length of at least n bases; associating each of the multiple nodes with an encryption key of a plurality of encryption keys, wherein each of the plurality of encryption keys comprises a string of at least n base values of bases, wherein a first encryption key of the plurality of encryption keys comprises a first string of at least n base values, and a second encryption key of the plurality of encryption keys comprises a second string of at least n base values; encrypting a first node of the multiple nodes by modulo adding the first encryption key to a first read to generate a first cipher; encrypting a second node of the multiple nodes by modulo adding the second encryption key to a first read to generate a second cipher; compressing the first cipher and the second cipher to generate compressed encrypted genetic information representing at least a portion of the genetic information; and transmitting at least a portion of the encrypted compressed genetic information over a network to a remote computing device.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the genetic information is received as a BAM file.
31. The method of claim 29, wherein compressing the first cipher and the second cipher comprises: forming a compound read string corresponding to at least a portion of the first node using at least a portion of the first cipher; comparing the compound read string to a reference string that is based on a concatenation of a plurality of n-mers from a group of n-mers that occur most frequently in the genetic information; determining, based on the comparison, that the compound read string is found in the reference string; and recording a position and length at which the compound read string is found in the reference string.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein the reference string is a reference cipher generated by modulo adding a reference key to the concatenation of the plurality of n-mers from the group of n-mers that occur most frequently in the genetic information.
33. The method of claim 31, further comprising: in response to determining that the compound read string is found in the reference string, adding a next element in the first cipher to the compound read string to generate an updated compound read string; comparing the updated compound read string to the reference string; determining, based on the comparison, that the updated compound read string is not found in the reference string; determining that the compound read string has a length that is greater than a threshold length k; and in response to determining that the compound read string has a length that is greater than the threshold length k, recording the position and length at which the compound read string is found in the reference string.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein compressing the first cipher further comprises recording a representation of a second portion of the first cipher that does not correspond to the compound read string and that has a length that is less than or equal to the threshold length k using a fixed encoding scheme.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein the fixed encoding scheme is based on Huffman codes.
36. The method of claim 29, wherein transmitting at least the portion of the encrypted compressed genetic information over the network to the remote computing device comprises: transmitting a first portion of the compressed encrypted genetic information that represents the first node to the remote computing device; and transmitting a second portion of the compressed encrypted genetic information that represents the second node to a second remote computing device.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein transmitting the first portion of the compressed encrypted genetic information that represents the first node to the remote computing device comprises transmitting a first position and length at which at least a portion of the first cipher is found in a reference string, and wherein transmitting the second portion of the compressed encrypted genetic information that represents the second node to the second remote computing device comprises transmitting a second position and length at which at least a portion of the second cipher is found in the reference string.
38. The method of claim 29, wherein the first encryption key is random.
39. The method of claim 29, wherein the second encryption key is generated from data encoded in the genomic information.
40. A system for encrypting genetic information, the system comprising: at least one processor that is programmed to: receive genetic information comprising data generated using a genetic sequencing device; parse the genetic information into multiple nodes of a graph, wherein each of the multiple nodes represents at least one read of a plurality of reads having a length of at least n bases; associate each of the multiple nodes with an encryption key of a plurality of encryption keys, wherein each of the plurality of encryption keys comprises a string of at least n base values of bases, wherein a first encryption key of the plurality of encryption keys comprises a first string of at least n base values, and a second encryption key of the plurality of encryption keys comprises a second string of at least n base values; encrypt a first node of the multiple nodes by modulo adding the first encryption key to a first read to generate a first cipher; encrypt a second node of the multiple nodes by modulo adding the second encryption key to a first read to generate a second cipher; compress the first cipher and the second cipher to generate compressed encrypted genetic information representing at least a portion of the genetic information; and transmit at least a portion of the encrypted compressed genetic information over a network to a remote computing device.
41. The system of claim 40, wherein the genetic information is received as a BAM file.
42. The system of claim 40, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to: form a compound read string corresponding to at least a portion of the first node using at least a portion of the first cipher; compare the compound read string to a reference string that is based on a concatenation of a plurality of n-mers from a group of n-mers that occur most frequently in the genetic information; determine, based on the comparison, that the compound read string is found in the reference string; and record a position and length at which the compound read string is found in the reference string.
43. The system of claim 42, wherein the reference string is a reference cipher generated by modulo adding a reference key to the concatenation of the plurality of n-mers from the group of n-mers that occur most frequently in the genetic information.
44. The system of claim 43, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to: in response to determining that the compound read string is found in the reference string, add a next element in the first cipher to the compound read string to generate an updated compound read string; compare the updated compound read string to the reference string; determine, based on the comparison, that the updated compound read string is not found in the reference string; determine that the compound read string has a length that is greater than a threshold length k; and in response to determining that the compound read string has a length that is greater than the threshold length k, record the position and length at which the compound read string is found in the reference string.
45. The system of claim 44, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to record a representation of a second portion of the first cipher that does not correspond to the compound read string and that has a length that is less than or equal to the threshold length k using a fixed encoding scheme.
46. The system of claim 45, wherein the fixed encoding scheme is based on Huffman codes.
47. The system of claim 40, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to: transmit a first portion of the compressed encrypted genetic information that represents the first node to the remote computing device; and transmit a second portion of the compressed encrypted genetic information that represents the second node to a second remote computing device.
48. The system of claim 47, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to: transmit a first position and length at which at least a portion of the first cipher is found in a reference string, and transmit a second position and length at which at least a portion of the second cipher is found in the reference string.
49. The system of claim 40, wherein the first encryption key is random.
50. The system of claim 40, wherein the second encryption key is generated from data encoded in the genomic information.
</claims>
</document>
