<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACRONIS INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
PROTASOV, STANISLAV
BELOUSSOV, SERGUEI
STROGOV, VLADIMIR
LSHANOV, OLEG
KULAGA, ANDREY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72142328
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CREATING A DATA PROTECTION MAP AND REMEDIATING VULNERABILITIES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for remediating vulnerabilities on a plurality of computing devices is disclosed herein. In one exemplary aspect, a method comprises classifying monitored data into a plurality of categories using a machine learning algorithm. For each respective data file of the monitored data, the method comprises retrieving one or more policies associated with a classified category of the respective data file and determining whether respective data file complies with the one or more policies. The method further comprises generating a compliance map based on compliance with policies for each respective data file of the monitored data, wherein the compliance map indicates vulnerabilities in the plurality of computing devices, determining whether the vulnerabilities are actionable, and in response to determining the vulnerabilities are actionable, requesting actions to be performed on the plurality of devices to remediate the vulnerabilities and non-compliance.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for remediating vulnerabilities on a plurality of computing devices, comprising: monitoring data associated with the plurality of computing devices; classifying the monitored data into a plurality of categories using a machine learning algorithm configured to assign a category for a data file based on characteristics of the data file; for each respective data file of the monitored data, evaluating compliance by: retrieving one or more policies associated with a respective category of the respective data file; and determining whether respective data file complies with the one or more policies; generating a compliance map based on the compliance with policies for each respective data file of the monitored data, wherein the compliance map indicates the vulnerabilities on the plurality of computing devices; determining whether the vulnerabilities indicated in the compliance map are actionable; and in response to determining the vulnerabilities are actionable, requesting actions to be performed on the plurality of devices to remediate the vulnerabilities and non-compliance.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the vulnerabilities are actionable comprises: determining that the vulnerabilities can be corrected using automated processes executed on a computing device.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the actions comprise one or more of moving data to a secure storage area, changing access rights to data and making an urgent backup of data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein classifying the data comprises: grouping the data into categories based on one of a file type of the data, content of the data, and a logical grouping of the data.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating an audit log during monitoring of the data associated with the plurality of computing devices; generating a report of compliance of the data based on the audit log; and generating the compliance map based on the report.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: displaying the compliance map to an end user; detecting end user input on the compliance map; determining that the end user input has selected a portion of the plurality of computing devices by determining if the end user input coincides with a visual depiction of the portion of the plurality of computing devices; and providing detailed information regarding compliance of the portion of the plurality of the computing devices.
7. A system for remediating vulnerabilities on a plurality of computing devices, the system comprising: a processor configured to: monitor data associated with the plurality of computing devices; classify the monitored data into a plurality of categories using a machine learning algorithm configured to assign a category for a data file based on characteristics of the data file; for each respective data file of the monitored data, evaluating compliance by: retrieving one or more policies associated with a respective category of the respective data file; and determining whether respective data file complies with the one or more policies; generate a compliance map based on the compliance with policies for each respective data file of the monitored data, wherein the compliance map indicates the vulnerabilities on the plurality of computing devices; determine whether the vulnerabilities indicated in the compliance map are actionable; and in response to determining the vulnerabilities are actionable, request actions to be performed on the plurality of devices to remediate the vulnerabilities and non-compliance.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to determine whether the vulnerabilities are actionable by: determining that the vulnerabilities can be corrected using automated processes executed on a computing device.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the actions comprise one or more of moving data to a secure storage area, changing access rights to data and making an urgent backup of data.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to classify the data by: grouping the data into categories based on one of a file type of the data, content of the data, and a logical grouping of the data.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein the processor is further configured to: generate an audit log during monitoring of the data associated with the plurality of computing devices; generate a report of compliance of the data based on the audit log; and generate the compliance map based on the report.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein the processor is further configured to: display the compliance map to an end user; detect end user input on the compliance map; determine that the end user input has selected a portion of the plurality of computing devices by determining if the end user input coincides with a visual depiction of the portion of the plurality of computing devices; and provide detailed information regarding compliance of the portion of the plurality of the computing devices.
13. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing thereon computer executable instructions for remediating vulnerabilities on a plurality of computing devices, comprising instructions for: monitoring data associated with the plurality of computing devices; classifying the monitored data into a plurality of categories using a machine learning algorithm configured to assign a category for a data file based on characteristics of the data file; for each respective data file of the monitored data, evaluating compliance by: retrieving one or more policies associated with a respective category of the respective data file; and determining whether respective data file complies with the one or more policies; generating a compliance map based on the compliance with policies for each respective data file of the monitored data, wherein the compliance map indicates the vulnerabilities on the plurality of computing devices; determining whether the vulnerabilities indicated in the compliance map are actionable; and in response to determining the vulnerabilities are actionable, requesting actions to be performed on the plurality of devices to remediate the vulnerabilities and non-compliance.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the instruction for determining whether the vulnerabilities are actionable further comprises an instruction for: determining that the vulnerabilities can be corrected using automated processes executed on a computing device.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the actions comprise one or more of moving data to a secure storage area, changing access rights to data and making an urgent backup of data.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the instruction for classifying the data comprises an instruction for: grouping the data into categories based on one of a file type of the data, content of the data, and a logical grouping of the data.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, further comprising instructions for: generating an audit log during monitoring of the data associated with the plurality of computing devices; generating a report of compliance of the data based on the audit log; and generating the compliance map based on the report.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, further comprising instructions for: displaying the compliance map to an end user; detecting end user input on the compliance map; determining that the end user input has selected a portion of the plurality of computing devices by determining if the end user input coincides with a visual depiction of the portion of the plurality of computing devices; and providing detailed information regarding compliance of the portion of the plurality of the computing devices.
</claims>
</document>
