<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/182,G06F16/901,G06Q20/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROKFIN
</assignee>

<inventors>
AUGUSTINE, SCOTT
FLOREANI, MARTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69902514
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CRYPTOGRAPHIC-TOKEN MINTING SCHEDULER
</title>

<abstract>
Described processes include: obtaining instantiation records of a cryptographic token; selecting historical instantiations of the cryptographic token; determining, based on a measure of central tendency of the adjusted tractable values of the selected historical instantiations, a target tractable value of a new instantiation period; accessing transaction records corresponding to one or more transactions in which amounts of the cryptographic token were transferred to addresses inoperable to transfer received cryptographic tokens to other addresses; identifying, from the transaction records, transactions corresponding to the new instantiation period; and determining to instantiate the cryptographic token for the new instantiation period in response to identifying a set of transactions corresponding to the new instantiation period having an aggregate tractable value meeting or exceeding the target tractable value of the new instantiation period.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable medium storing instructions that when executed by one or more processors effectuate operations comprising: obtaining, with one or more processors, instantiation records corresponding to one or more historical instantiations of a cryptographic token, the instantiation records indicating for each historical instantiation: an identifier associated with an instantiation period, a timestamp associated with the instantiation period, and an adjusted tractable value for the instantiation period; selecting, based on selection criteria, historical instantiations of the cryptographic token satisfying the selection criteria; determining, based on a measure of central tendency of the adjusted tractable values of the selected historical instantiations, a target tractable value of a new instantiation period; accessing, with one or more processors, transaction records corresponding to one or more transactions in which amounts of the cryptographic token were transferred to an address inoperable to transfer received cryptographic tokens to other addresses according to a protocol of a decentralized computing platform; identifying, from the transaction records, transactions corresponding to the new instantiation period, each identified transaction having associated transaction information indicative of a tractable value based on an amount of the cryptographic token transferred by the transaction to an address inoperable to transfer the received amount of cryptographic tokens; and determining to instantiate the cryptographic token for the new instantiation period in response to identifying a set of transactions corresponding to the new instantiation period having an aggregate tractable value meeting or exceeding the target tractable value of the new instantiation period, wherein an instantiation record stored for the new instantiation period indicates: an identifier associated with the new instantiation period, a timestamp associated with the new instantiation period, and an adjusted tractable value for the instantiation period based on the aggregate tractable value and a duration of the new instantiation period.
2. The medium of claim 1, wherein the selection criteria is based on a trailing duration in time from the new instantiation period, the selecting further comprising: selecting a historical instantiation based on the timestamp associated with the historical instantiation period indicating a time within the trailing duration.
3. The medium of claim 2, wherein the trailing duration of time from the new instantiation period extends from the timestamp associated with the new instantiation period, and the timestamp associated with the new instantiation period corresponds to a start time of the new instantiation period.
4. The medium of claim 1, wherein the selection criteria is based on a trailing range of identifier or timestamp values corresponding to one or more historical instantiation periods, the selecting further comprising: selecting a historical instantiation based on an identifier or a timestamp associated with the historical instantiation period indicating a value with the trailing range.
5. The medium of claim 1, wherein: the timestamp associated with the new instantiation period corresponds to a start time of the new instantiation period, and the start time of the new instantiation period is based on a timestamp associated with a state of the decentralized computing platform determined to have finality according to a protocol of the decentralized computing platform.
6. The medium of claim 5, wherein: the state includes a last transaction having a tractable value aggregated in a historical instantiation period prior to the new instantiation period, or the state includes a first transaction having a tractable value not included in an aggregation of tractable values in a historical instantiation period prior to the new instantiation period.
7. The medium of claim 5, wherein the state is: a last state from which transactions having tractable values were identified as corresponding to the historical instantiation periods, a last state from which a transaction having a tractable value was not identified as corresponding to a historical instantiation period, or a first state from which transactions having tractable values are to be identified as corresponding to the new instantiation period.
8. The medium of claim 1, wherein: the timestamp associated with the new instantiation period corresponds to a start time of the new instantiation period, and the start time of the new instantiation period is based on a timestamp associated with a block in a chain of blocks within a directed acyclic graph of cryptographic hash pointers, the block determining to have finality according to a protocol of the decentralized computing platform.
9. The medium of claim 8, wherein the block includes one or more transactions having tractable values aggregated in a historical instantiation period and transactions in one or more next blocks determined to have finality in the chain of blocks are identified as corresponding to the new instantiation period.
10. The medium of claim 9, wherein the block is a next block having finality after a prior block having finality and including transactions having tractable values aggregated in a historical instantiation period, transactions within the next block or one or more subsequent blocks identified as corresponding to the new instantiation period.
11. The medium of claim 1, further comprising determining the adjusted tractable value of the instantiation period based on the aggregate tractable value and the duration of the new instantiation period, wherein: the duration of the new instantiation period is adjusted based on a scheduling value for instantiations of the cryptographic token to determine an adjustment value, and the aggregate tractable value is adjusted based on the adjustment value to determine the adjusted tractable value.
12. The medium of claim 11, wherein the scheduling value for instantiations of the cryptographic token is fixed time value less than 72 hours.
13. The medium of claim 11, wherein: for a duration less than the scheduling value, the determined adjustment value biases the adjusted tractable value to a value greater than the aggregate tractable value, and for a duration greater than the scheduling value, the determined adjusted values biases the adjusted tractable value to a value less than the aggregate tractable value.
14. The medium of claim 1, wherein a measure of central tendency of the adjusted tractable values of the selected historical instantiations is a mean, median, or mode the adjusted tractable values.
15. The medium of claim 1, wherein accessing, with one or more processors, transaction records corresponding to one or more transactions in which amounts of the cryptographic token were transferred to an address inoperable to transfer received cryptographic tokens to other addresses according to a protocol of a decentralized computing platform comprises: accessing, with one or more processors, a data structure associating reported burn transaction identifiers with cryptographic hash addresses of respective records storing transaction information for one or more burn transactions; and accessing the respective records within a directed acyclic graph of cryptographic hash pointers based on the cryptographic hash addresses.
16. The medium of claim 15, wherein: the data structure further associates timestamps with burn transaction identifiers, and burn transactions identifiers corresponding to the new instantiation period are selected based on the respective timestamps.
17. The medium of claim 15, wherein: the data structure further associates a period identifier with burn transaction identifiers, and burn transactions identifiers corresponding to the new instantiation periods are selected based on the respective timestamps.
18. The medium of claim 15, wherein identifying transactions corresponding to the new instantiation period comprises: identifying the transactions corresponding to the new instantiation period based on the burn transaction identifiers.
19. The medium of claim 1, wherein determining to instantiate the cryptographic token for the new instantiation period comprises: submitting the determination to a smart contract of the distributed computing platform.
20. A method, comprising: obtaining, with one or more processors, instantiation records corresponding to one or more historical instantiations of a cryptographic token, the instantiation records indicating for each historical instantiation: an identifier associated with an instantiation period, a timestamp associated with the instantiation period, and an adjusted tractable value for the instantiation period; selecting, based on selection criteria, historical instantiations of the cryptographic token satisfying the selection criteria; determining, based on a measure of central tendency of the adjusted tractable values of the selected historical instantiations, a target tractable value of a new instantiation period; accessing, with one or more processors, transaction records corresponding to one or more transactions in which amounts of the cryptographic token were transferred to an address inoperable to transfer received cryptographic tokens to other addresses according to a protocol of a decentralized computing platform; identifying, from the transaction records, transactions corresponding to the new instantiation period, each identified transaction having associated transaction information indicative of a tractable value based on an amount of the cryptographic token transferred by the transaction to an address inoperable to transfer the received amount of cryptographic tokens; and determining to instantiate the cryptographic token for the new instantiation period in response to identifying a set of transactions corresponding to the new instantiation period having an aggregate tractable value meeting or exceeding the target tractable value of the new instantiation period, wherein an instantiation record stored for the new instantiation period indicates: an identifier associated with the new instantiation period, a timestamp associated with the new instantiation period, and an adjusted tractable value for the instantiation period based on the aggregate tractable value and a duration of the new instantiation period.
</claims>
</document>
