<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T3/00,G06T7/50,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FANUC
</assignee>

<inventors>
SATOU, TAIGA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74099021
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
POSITION POSTURE IDENTIFICATION DEVICE, POSITION POSTURE IDENTIFICATION METHOD AND POSITION POSTURE IDENTIFICATION PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A position posture identification device includes: an actual measurement data acquisition unit which acquires actual measurement data on the shape of a workpiece; a virtual measurement data generation unit which generates, from shape data defined for the workpiece, virtual measurement data; a filter processing unit which performs, based on the measurement property of the three-dimensional measuring machine, affine transformation on the virtual measurement data; a feature point extraction unit which extracts feature point data from the actual measurement data and the virtual measurement data; a storage unit which stores, as model data of the workpiece, the feature point data extracted from the virtual measurement data; and a position posture calculation unit which checks the feature point data of the actual measurement data against data obtained by performing coordinate transformation on the feature point data included in the model data so as to calculate the position posture of the workpiece.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A position posture identification device comprising: an actual measurement data acquisition unit which acquires, from a measuring machine, actual measurement data on a shape of a target article; a virtual measurement data generation unit which generates, from shape data defined for the target article, virtual measurement data that is associated with the actual measurement data; a filter processing unit which performs, based on a measurement property of the measuring machine, filter processing that performs affine transformation on the virtual measurement data; a feature point extraction unit which extracts feature point data from the actual measurement data and the virtual measurement data; a storage unit which stores, as model data of the target article, the feature point data extracted from the virtual measurement data; and a position posture calculation unit which checks the feature point data of the actual measurement data against data obtained by performing coordinate transformation on the feature point data included in the model data so as to calculate a position posture of the target article.
2. The position posture identification device according to claim 1, wherein the filter processing unit receives a direction of the measuring machine with respect to the target article, and performs the filter processing based on a measurement property from vicinity including the direction.
3. The position posture identification device according to claim 2, wherein the filter processing unit receives a plurality of directions of the measuring machine with respect to the target article, and the storage unit stores, as a plurality of items of model data, the feature point data extracted with the feature point extraction unit from the virtual measurement data such that the items of model data are respectively associated with the directions received by the filter processing unit.
4. The position posture identification device according to claim 3, wherein the position posture calculation unit receives an initial value of position posture calculation of the target article, and uses, among the items of model data stored in the storage unit, the item of model data associated with the direction closest to the initial value so as to calculate the position posture of the target article.
5. The position posture identification device according to claim 2, wherein the position posture calculation unit receives an initial value of position posture calculation of the target article, and uses the model data obtained by inputting the direction of the measuring machine corresponding to the initial value to the filter processing unit so as to calculate the position posture of the target article.
6. The position posture identification device according to claim 1, wherein the actual measurement data is point cloud data which includes three-dimensional position information at a plurality of points on a surface of the target article, and the virtual measurement data generation unit generates, as the virtual measurement data, point cloud data obtained by sampling positions on the surface from the shape data.
7. The position posture identification device according to claim 6, wherein the filter processing unit assigns, according to a probability of appearance, weights to individual points included in the virtual measurement data, and the position posture calculation unit calculates, in the checking of the feature point data, an evaluation value for a degree of agreement based on the weights.
8. The position posture identification device according to claim 1, wherein the actual measurement data is a distance image of the target article, and the virtual measurement data generation unit generates, as the virtual measurement data, a distance image obtained by transformation from the shape data so as to correspond to each of one or more directions of the measuring machine.
9. The position posture identification device according to claim 6, wherein the filter processing unit uses a machine learning model in which the virtual measurement data in a known position posture is an input and in which the actual measurement data is an output so as to perform affine transformation on the virtual measurement data.
10. The position posture identification device according to claim 8, wherein the filter processing unit uses a machine learning model in which the virtual measurement data in a known position posture is an input and in which the actual measurement data is an output so as to perform affine transformation on the virtual measurement data.
11. A position posture identification method of making a computer execute: an actual measurement data acquisition step of acquiring, from a measuring machine, actual measurement data on a shape of a target article; a virtual measurement data generation step of generating, from shape data defined for the target article, virtual measurement data that is associated with the actual measurement data; a filter processing step of performing, based on a measurement property of the measuring machine, filter processing that performs affine transformation on the virtual measurement data; a feature point extraction step of extracting feature point data from the actual measurement data and the virtual measurement data; a storage step of storing, as model data of the target article, the feature point data extracted from the virtual measurement data; and a position posture calculation step of checking the feature point data of the actual measurement data against data obtained by performing coordinate transformation on the feature point data included in the model data so as to calculate a position posture of the target article.
12. A non-transitory computer readable medium which records a position posture identification program for instructing a computer to function as the position posture identification device according to claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
