<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01F1/684,G01F23/296,G01F25/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOLAN, MICHAEL L.
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOLAN, MICHAEL L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69054654
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MONITORING FLOW PARAMETERS WITH NATURAL EXPRESSIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A monitoring apparatus is disclosed that includes a.) at least one acoustic pickup, b.) a sound pressure sensor acoustically coupled to the at least one acoustic pickup, and c.) a computing device interfaced to the sound pressure sensor. The at least one acoustic pickup may be submerged in or located in proximity to flowing fluid. The sound sensor is configured to acquire sound intensity waveforms naturally generated by the flowing fluid as a source of data patterns for training the apparatus as well stimuli used to generate responses about flow conditions. The computing device is configured to quantify flow parameters of the flowing fluid from sound utterances and visual appearances intrinsically expressed by the flow using machine learning models.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A monitoring apparatus comprising: a.) at least one acoustic pickup, b.) a sound sensor acoustically coupled to the at least one acoustic pickup, and c.) a computing device interfaced to the sound sensor wherein the at least one acoustic pickup is submerged in or located in proximity to flowing fluid the sound sensor is configured to acquire sound intensity waveforms naturally generated by the flowing fluid as an input data source to algorithms trained by machine learning to quantify flow parameters, and the computing device is configured to process expressions native to the flowing fluid for the purpose of predicting flow parameters by listening to sound utterances and observing visual appearances.
2. The monitoring apparatus of claim 1, wherein the fluid is water.
3. The monitoring apparatus of claim 2, wherein the sound sensor and the at least one acoustic pickup are configured to recognize sound with frequencies starting as low as 0 Hz.
4. The monitoring apparatus of claim 2, wherein parameters of the flowing water comprise one or more of level, width, cross section, direction, turbulence, velocity, volumetric rate, volume, and obstruction.
5. The monitoring apparatus of claim 2, wherein the apparatus is mounted from grade level in a location readily accessible by humans.
6. The monitoring apparatus of claim 2, wherein the computing device is an edge computing device assisted by cloud computing infrastructure.
7. The monitoring system of claim 6 wherein the computing device is configured for at least one of automated calibration, self-test diagnostics, sound utterance recognition, detection of sound patterns that trigger increased scrutiny, video imaging and inclinometer cross checks for parameters quantified by sound, automated determination of flow channel geometry and wetted cross sectional area, and machine learning.
8. The monitoring apparatus of claim 2 wherein the apparatus does not require the production of artificial sound to quantify flow parameters of the flowing water.
9. The monitoring apparatus of claim 2 further comprising a video image sensor, wherein the image sensor is in communication with the computing device, and the image sensor is configured so that sounds of particular interest can trigger synchronized sight for further validation of the flow parameters.
10. The monitoring apparatus of claim 2 wherein the at least one acoustic pickup is acoustically coupled to the sound pressure sensor via a noise isolating sound tube, the sound tube acts as a tether between the sound pressure sensor and the at least one acoustic pickup, and the sound tube conveys acoustic pressure waves from the flowing water to the sound pressure sensor.
11. The monitoring apparatus of claim 2 further comprising a supplemental acoustic pickup with a frequency response as low as 0 Hz, said supplemental acoustic pickup is acoustically coupled to the sound pressure sensor, wherein the at least one acoustic pickup is submerged in the flowing water, the supplemental acoustic pickup is located in air open to the atmospheric nearby the at least one acoustic pickup submerged in water, and the supplemental acoustic pickup is configured to acquire the naturally generated sound patterns of the atmospheric conditions to quantify time varying atmospheric pressure.
12. The monitoring apparatus of claim 11 wherein the sound pattern acquired by the supplemental acoustic pickup is subtracted from the sound pattern acquired by the at least one acoustic pickup submerged in water to yield the sound pattern of the water without the effects of changing atmospheric pressure.
13. The monitoring apparatus of claim 12, wherein the computing device is configured to gather sound pressure patterns from a third party to validate the sound pressure
14. The monitoring apparatus of claim 2 wherein the flowing water is storm water, sewer water, wastewater, process water, a natural watershed, or mixtures of the same, and the flowing water is organized by a pipe, a channel, an embankment, a catchment basin, a holding tank, a manhole invert, or a culvert.
15. An acoustic pickup comprising: an active air chamber configured to respond to sound pressure in a fluidic environment; and a sound tube connected to the active air chamber, said sound tube configured to convey sound pressure to a sound sensor, wherein the acoustic pickup is adapted to acquire the naturally generated sound utterances of a moving fluid to quantify its flow parameters, the sound tube acts as a tether between the sound sensor and the acoustic pickup, and a targeted fluid surrounds at least a portion of the active air chamber.
16. The acoustic pickup of claim 15, wherein the fluid is water.
17. The acoustic pickup of claim 16, wherein the frequency response is as low as 0 Hz.
18. The acoustic pickup of claim 16, wherein the active air chamber is cylindrical.
19. The acoustic pickup of claim 17, further comprising a plumb to stabilize the horizontal and vertical position of the acoustic pickup, wherein the plumb is connected to the sound tube, and an arc allows the pickup lay on the bottom of the flow channel and to avoid snagging objects in the moving water.
20. The acoustic pickup of claim 19, wherein the plumb is positioned substantially vertically and is adapted for adjustment which sets the length of the sound tube arc to enable desired placement of the acoustic pickup in the water.
21. The acoustic pickup of claim 19 further comprising an inclinometer that measures the angle of deflection of the sound tube as another measurement of at least one of velocity, turbulence, direction and obstruction to further crosscheck flow parameters acquired from the sound utterances and visual appearances.
22. An acoustic pickup comprising: a fairing and a sound tube, wherein the fairing has a chamber, the sound tube has a sealed connection to the active air of the chamber, the sound tube is configured to convey sound to a sound pressure sensor, the acoustic pickup is adapted to acquire the naturally generated sound utterances of a moving fluid to quantify its flow parameters, the sound tube acts as a tether between the sound sensor and the acoustic pickup to structurally support the pickup, and a targeted fluid surrounds at least a portion of the permeable fairing.
</claims>
</document>
