<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SADEH-KONIECPOL, NORMAN
HONG, JASON I.
CRANSHAW, JUSTIN
SCHWARTZ, RAZ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60629143
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISCOVERING NEIGHBORHOOD CLUSTERS AND USES THEREFOR
</title>

<abstract>
Computer-based systems and methods for discovering neighborhood clusters in a geographic region, where the clusters have a mix of venues and are determined based on venue check-in data. The mix of venues for the clusters may be based on the social similarity between pairs of venues; or emblematic of certain neighborhood typologies; or emblematic of temporal check-in pattern types; or combinations thereof. The neighborhood clusters that are so discovered through venue-check in data could be used for many commercial and civic purposes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: retrieving, from a venue data store database, venue information for a plurality of venues, the venue information including at least a geographic location of each of the plurality of venues; creating an affinity score between pairs of venues in the plurality of venues, wherein the affinity score is a function of a spatial proximity between two venues in a pair; and identifying a neighborhood cluster comprising a plurality of venues based on the affinity scores between pairs of venues.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: creating an affinity matrix containing an entry for each pair of venues.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein an entry in the affinity matrix for any pair of venues is 0 if one venue in the pair is not one of the m closest venues to the other venue in the pair and is otherwise a function of the spatial proximity between the venues in the pair.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the m closest venues may be determined by factors other than straight-line distance.
5. The method of claim 2 wherein an entry in the affinity matrix for any pair of venues is 0 if one venue in the pair is not within a threshold distance of the other venue in the pair and is otherwise a function of the spatial proximity between the venues in the pair.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein the threshold distance may be determined by factors other than straight-line distance.
7. The method of claim 1: wherein the venue information further includes a venue category; and wherein the affinity scores between pairs of venues is further a function of the venue category.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein the neighborhood cluster is identified using spectral clustering.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein the neighborhood cluster is identified using density-based clustering.
10. The method of claim 9: wherein the venue information further includes a venue category; and wherein the neighborhood cluster comprises a mix of a plurality of venues, the mix of venues chosen based on a statistical inference from a probability distribution based on the venue category for each venue.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the venue category of the venues in the mix of venues is emblematic of a certain neighborhood type, such that the mix of venues in the neighborhood cluster reflects the neighborhood type.
12. The method of claim 1: wherein the venue information further includes a venue category; and wherein the neighborhood cluster is identified by identifying geographic groups of venues emblematic of a certain neighborhood type, based on the venue categories.
13. The method of claim 1 further comprising: visualizing the neighborhood cluster on a map.
14. The method of claim 1 further comprising: using the neighborhood cluster as the basis for targeted marketing.
15. The method of claim 1 further comprising: calculating a neighborhood quality score based on the presence of the neighborhood cluster.
16. The method of claim 1 further comprising: using venue check-in data to make recommendations for venues in the neighborhood cluster or for additional venues similar to those in the neighborhood cluster.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein the recommendation for venues is visualized on a map.
18. The method of claim 1 further comprising: using the neighborhood cluster as the basis for urban planning.
19. The method of claim 1 further comprising: using the neighborhood cluster as a component of real estate or business analytics.
20. The method of claim 1 further comprising: using the neighborhood cluster as the basis for investment decisions.
21. The method of claim 1 further comprising: using the neighborhood cluster as the basis for public surveillance and crime prediction.
22. A computer-implemented method comprising: retrieving, from a venue data store database, venue information for a plurality of venues, the venue information including at least a geographic location of each of the venues, a venue category for each of the venues and temporal check-in data indicative of venues visited by a plurality of venue visitors; identifying a neighborhood cluster of venues based on the geographic locations of the venues and including a venue in the neighborhood cluster based on a number of check-ins for a given period of time for the venue.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein patterns of the venue category information for the plurality of venues are identified, such that a mix of venues selected for inclusion in the neighborhood cluster are emblematic of a certain neighborhood type.
24. A computer-implemented method comprising: retrieving, from a venue data store database, venue check-in data captured by a plurality of location indicators, the check-in data indicative of venues visited by a plurality of venue visitors; calculating a social similarity score between pairs of venues in the plurality of venues, wherein the social similarity score is based on a comparison of the check-in data for each venue; identifying a neighborhood cluster comprising a plurality of venues based on the social similarity scores between pairs of venues.
25. The method of claim 24 further comprising: retrieving, from the venue data store database, a venue category for each of the venues; and wherein the social similarity score between pairs of venues is further a function of the venue category.
26. The method of claim 24 wherein the neighborhood cluster is identified using spectral clustering.
27. The method of claim 24: wherein the venue information further includes a venue category information for each venue; and wherein the neighborhood cluster is further identified based on the venue category for each venue.
28. The method of claim 27 wherein the neighborhood cluster is identified based on patterns of the venue category information for the plurality of venues, such that a mix of venues in the neighborhood cluster is emblematic of a certain neighborhood type.
29. The method of claim 26 wherein the venue information includes check-in times, further comprising: including venues in the neighborhood cluster based on a number of check-ins for a given period of time for the venue
30. The method of claim 24 further comprising: visualizing the neighborhood cluster on a map.
31. The method of claim 24 further comprising: using the neighborhood cluster as the basis for targeted marketing.
32. The method of claim 24 further comprising: calculating a neighborhood quality score based on the presence of the neighborhood cluster.
33. The method of claim 24 further comprising: using venue check-in data to make recommendations for venues in the neighborhood cluster or for additional venues similar to those in the neighborhood cluster.
34. The method of claim 33 wherein the recommendation for venues is visualized on a map.
35. The method of claim 24 further comprising: using the neighborhood cluster as the basis for urban planning.
36. The method of claim 24 further comprising: using the neighborhood cluster as a component of real estate or business analytics.
37. The method of claim 24 further comprising: using the neighborhood cluster as the basis for investment decisions.
38. The method of claim 24 further comprising: using the neighborhood cluster as the basis for public surveillance and crime prediction.
39. A computer-implemented method comprising: retrieving, from a venue data store database, venue check-in data captured by a plurality of location indicators, the check-in data indicative of venues visited by a plurality of venue visitors; retrieving, from the venue data store database, venue location data indicative of a geographic location of each of the plurality of venues; calculating a spatial proximity between each pair of venues; calculating a social similarity score for between each pair of venues, the social similarity score based on a comparison of the check-in data for each venue calculating an affinity score for each pair of venues, the affinity score based on the social similarity score for the pair of venues and the spatial proximity between the venues in the pair; and identifying a neighborhood cluster of venues based on the affinity scores for between pairs of venues.
40. The method of claim 39 further comprising: creating an affinity matrix containing an affinity score for between pairs of venues.
41. The method of claim 40 wherein the affinity score for any pair of venues is 0 if one venue in the pair is not one of the m closest venues to the other venue in the pair and is otherwise a function of the social similarity score between the venues in the pair.
42. The method of claim 41 wherein the m closest venues may be determined by factors other than straight-line distance.
43. The method of claim 40 wherein the affinity score for any pair of venues is 0 if one venue in the pair is not within a threshold distance of the other venue in the pair and is otherwise a function of the social similarity score between the venues in the pair.
44. The method of claim 43 wherein the threshold distance may be determined by factors other than straight-line distance.
45. The method of claim 39 further comprising: creating an undirected graph wherein nodes in the graph represent venues and edges in the graph are weighted by the affinity score for the pair of venues.
46. The method of claim 45 wherein a venue node is only connected to the nodes for its m nearest neighbors or to all nodes within a threshold distance.
47. The method of claim 46 wherein the neighborhood cluster is identified based on the undirected graph.
48. The method of claim 46 wherein the neighborhood cluster is identified using spectral clustering.
49. The method of claim 46 further comprising: retrieving, from the venue data store database, venue category information for each venue; wherein patterns of the venue category information for the plurality of venues are identified, such that a mix of venues selected for inclusion in the neighborhood cluster are emblematic of a certain neighborhood type.
50. The method of claim 39 wherein the social similarity score is based on check-in data for a pair of venues indicating common venue visitors.
51. The method of claim 50 further comprising: creating, for each venue, a check-in intensity vector representing the frequency of check-ins from individual venue visitors; wherein the social similarity score is based on a comparison of the check-in intensity vectors for each venue in the pair of venues.
52. The method of claim 39 wherein the location indicators providing the check-in data are both passive and active indicators.
53. The method of claim 39 wherein the check-in data is algorithmically derived from events including at least a payment event or a venue visitor review event.
54. The method of claim 39 further comprising: visualizing the neighborhood cluster on a map.
55. The method of claim 39 further comprising: using the neighborhood cluster as the basis for targeted marketing.
56. The method of claim 39 further comprising: calculating a neighborhood quality score based on the presence of the neighborhood cluster.
57. The method of claim 39 further comprising: using venue check-in data to make recommendations for venues in the neighborhood cluster or for additional venues similar to those in the neighborhood cluster.
58. The method of claim 57 wherein the recommendation for venues is visualized on a map.
59. The method of claim 39 further comprising: using the neighborhood cluster as the basis for urban planning.
60. The method of claim 39 further comprising: using the neighborhood cluster as a component of real estate or business analytics.
61. The method of claim 39 further comprising: using the neighborhood cluster as the basis for investment decisions.
62. The method of claim 39 further comprising: using the neighborhood cluster as the basis for public surveillance and crime prediction.
63. The method of claim 1 wherein the pairwise affinity score is calculated between pairs of venues where one venue of the pair is one of the m closest venues to the other venue in the pair.
64. The method of claim 1 wherein the pairwise affinity score is calculated between pairs of venues where one venue of the pair is within a threshold distance of the other venue in the pair.
65. The method of claim 39 wherein the pairwise affinity score is calculated between pairs of venues where one venue of the pair is one of the m closest venues to the other venue in the pair.
66. The method of claim 39 wherein the pairwise affinity score is calculated between pairs of venues where one venue of the pair is within a threshold distance of the other venue in the pair.
</claims>
</document>
