<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00,G06F3/0482,G06F3/0488,G06F3/16,G06K9/00,G06T11/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
AHN, YEONGNAM
CHO, TAEG IL
JUNG, JIYUN
LEE, KAEUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71101380
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ROBOT AND METHOD OF CONTROLLING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a method of controlling a robot, the method including receiving user input of a request for fitting service, moving the robot to a position at which a distance from the user satisfies a predetermined reference distance or more, and a predetermined range or more of the body of the user is scannable, scanning the predetermined range or more of the body of the user through the camera at the moved position, and providing the fitting service by creating a virtual avatar character of the user based on a result of scanning.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of controlling a robot, the robot including a main body, a camera, a display, and a driving assembly, the method comprising: receiving a user input at the robot, the user input including a request for a fitting service; moving the robot to a first position located at a predetermined reference distance from the user, wherein in the first position, a predetermined range or more of a body of the user is scannable by the camera of the robot; scanning, at the first position, the predetermined range or more of the body of the user by the camera; and providing the fitting service by: creating a virtual avatar character of the user based on a result of the scanning; and displaying the virtual avatar character on the display.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the driving assembly includes a wheel for moving the main body, and wherein the scanning includes: calculating a distance that the robot moves by measuring a rotational speed of the wheel of the driving assembly; determining a reference body size value in proportion to the calculated distance; determining a body size value of the user; and determining body information of the user based on a difference between the reference body size value and the body size value of the user.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the scanning includes: capturing, by the camera, a first image of the user in a first direction; capturing, by the camera, a plurality of second images of the user at different angles by moving the robot around the user; and determining body information of the user based on the first image and the second images, and wherein the determined body information includes at least one of the following: a height of the user, an arm length of the user, a leg length of the user, and a position of a joint of the user.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein moving the robot to the first position includes: measuring a distance between the user and the robot; when the distance between the user and the robot is less than the predetermined reference distance, moving the robot, by the driving assembly, to be spaced apart from the user by the predetermined reference distance; determining whether the predetermined range or more of the body of the user is scannable through the camera at the predetermined reference distance; and when the robot is located at the predetermined reference distance and less than the predetermined range of the body of the user is determined to be scannable by the camera, controlling the driving assembly to move the robot to a second position, and wherein in the second position, the robot is spaced apart from the user more than the predetermined reference distance.
5. The method according to claim 3, wherein providing the fitting service includes displaying a user interface screen on the display, the user interface screen including an image of a clothing for selection by the user, and wherein the method further includes, in response to selection of the clothing by the user, displaying, on the user interface screen, a synthesized image obtained by synthesizing the virtual avatar character and the selected clothing.
6. The method according to claim 3, wherein the scanning further includes: displaying a user interface screen on the display; and displaying a graphical image indicating a scanning progress of the scanning.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the scanning further includes outputting a message on the user interface screen for guiding a user action.
8. The method according to claim 3, the method further including, in response to completing the scanning: displaying a message informing completion of the scanning; and displaying information about a recommended clothing size based on the body information of the user.
9. The method according to claim 1, the method further including: receiving, by a server, at least one of the following: new product information, information of a number of sales of a plurality of products, or event information; and recommending a predetermined product based on the received information by displaying the predetermined product on the display.
10. The method according to claim 1, the method further including: identifying, by the camera, the user; receiving, from a server, user information of at least one of the following: a previous purchase of the user and fitting information of the user; and displaying, on the display, a recommended predetermined product based on the user information.
11. The method according to claim 5, wherein providing the fitting service further includes: displaying on the user interface screen a recommended size of the selected clothing based on the body information of the user; and displaying, on the user interface screen, a product option item capable of changing an option of the selected clothing, the option including a size or a color of the selected clothing.
12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the display includes: a first display for receiving a user input; and a second display spaced apart from the first display, the second display displaying the virtual avatar character.
13. A robot, comprising: a main body; a driving assembly for moving the main body; a camera for scanning a user and for generating a result of scanning; an input assembly for receiving a request for fitting service from the user; a first display for displaying a virtual avatar character of the user and for providing the fitting service, and a controller configured to provide the fitting service by: controlling the driving assembly to move the robot to a first position located at a predetermined reference distance from the user, wherein in the first position, a predetermined range or more of a body of the user is scannable by the camera of the robot, controlling the camera to scan, at the first position, the predetermined range or more of the body of the user, generating a virtual avatar character of the user based on the result of scanning, and controlling the first display to display the virtual avatar character.
14. The robot according to claim 13, wherein the input assembly comprises a microphone configured to receive the request for fitting service from the user as a voice input.
15. The robot according to claim 13, wherein robot further includes a second display spaced apart from the first display, wherein the second display is a touch display, and wherein the second display is configured to receive a touch input by the user for requesting the fitting service.
16. The robot according to claim 13, wherein the driving assembly includes a wheel for moving the main body, and wherein the controller is further configured to: calculate a distance that the robot moves by measuring a rotational speed of the wheel of the driving assembly, determine a reference body size value in proportion to the calculated distance, determine a body size value of the user, and determine body information of the user based on a difference between the reference body size value and the body size value of the user.
17. The robot according to claim 13, wherein the robot is configured to: capture, by the camera, a first image of the user in a first direction, and capture, by the camera, a plurality of second images of the user at different angles by moving the robot around the user, and determine, by the controller, body information of the user based on the first image and the second images, and wherein the determined body information includes at least one of the following: a height of the user, an arm length of the user, a leg length of the user, and a position of a joint of the user.
18. The robot according to claim 13, wherein the controller controls the driving assembly to move the robot to a first position by: measuring a distance between the user and the robot; when the distance between the user and the robot is less than the predetermined reference distance, moving the robot, by the driving assembly, to be spaced apart from the user by the predetermined reference distance; determining whether the predetermined range or more of the body of the user is scannable through the camera at the predetermined reference distance; and when the robot is located at the predetermined reference distance and less than the predetermined range of the body of the user is determined to be scannable by the camera, controlling the driving assembly to move the robot to a second position, and wherein in the second position, the robot is spaced apart from the user more than the predetermined reference distance.
19. The robot according to claim 13, wherein the controller is further configured to: control the first display to display a user interface screen, the user interface screen including an image of a clothing for selection by the user, and in response to selection of clothing by the user, displaying, on the user interface screen, a synthesized image obtained by synthesizing the virtual avatar character and the selected clothing by the user.
20. The robot according to claim 13, wherein the controller is further configured to: identify the user by controlling the camera to capture an image of the user; receive, from a server, user information of at least one of the following: a previous purchase of the user and fitting information of the user; and control the first display to display a recommend predetermined product based on the user information.
</claims>
</document>
