<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J13/08,G06F3/01,G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SINGAPORE
</assignee>

<inventors>
NG, KIAN-ANN
TEE, CHEE KEONG
Ho, John
Lee, Wang Wei
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66749897
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Sensor-Based Communication Apparatus And Method, And Communication Medium
</title>

<abstract>
In a described embodiment, a sensor-based communication apparatus (100) is disclosed. The communication apparatus (100) comprises a plurality of sensor nodes (112) associated with respective unique pulse signatures (200) and adapted to communicate with respective sensors (113) with each sensor (113) configured to generate a sensory signal (113a) in response to a respective stimulus (113b). Each sensor node (112) is triggered, upon receipt of the corresponding sensory signal (113a), to transmit the associated unique pulse signature (200) independently and asynchronously through a transmission medium (110) shared by the sensor nodes (112), and the unique pulse signatures (200) transmitted by the sensor nodes (112) being a representation (300) of a stimulus event associated with the stimuli detected by the corresponding sensors (113). A method and a communication medium are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A sensor-based communication apparatus comprising: a plurality of sensor nodes associated with respective unique pulse signatures and adapted to communicate with respective sensors with each sensor configured to generate a sensory signal in response to a respective stimulus, wherein each sensor node is triggered, upon receipt of the corresponding sensory signal, to transmit the associated unique pulse signature independently and asynchronously through a transmission medium shared by the sensor nodes, the unique pulse signatures transmitted by the sensor nodes being a representation of a stimulus event associated with the stimuli detected by the corresponding sensors.
2. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 1, wherein each inter-pulse interval of the unique pulse signature of each of the sensor nodes has a unique duration.
3. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 1, wherein the unique pulse signature has eight or ten pulses.
4. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 1, wherein the unique pulse signature of one of the sensor nodes has a first number of pulses and the unique pulse signature of another of the sensor nodes has a second number of pulses different from the first number.
5. (canceled)
6. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 1, wherein the unique pulse signature of one of the sensor nodes has a first signature duration and the unique pulse signature of another of the sensor nodes has a second signature duration different from the first signature duration.
7. 7-9. (canceled)
10. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 1, further comprising tactile sensors of different sensitivities.
11. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 1, further comprising sensors including electro-magnetic, humidity, surface texture, vibration, acceleration, optical and/or temperature sensors.
12. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 1, wherein each sensor node is triggered, upon receiving a current value in the corresponding sensory signal, to transmit a current one of the associated unique pulse signature to indicate the current value by an interval between the current one of the associated unique pulse signature and a previous one of the associated unique pulse signature.
13. 13-14. (canceled)
15. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a receiver configured to receive through the transmission medium an incoming signal relating to the transmitted unique pulse signatures, to correlate the associated unique pulse signature of each sensor node with an intermediate signal relating to the incoming signal, and to provide indication signals indicating respective times of triggering of the sensor nodes based on a result of correlation for representation of the stimulus event.
16. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 15, wherein the receiver includes a plurality of filters each activated, upon detection of an edge in the incoming signal by the receiver, to correlate the intermediate signal with a corresponding one of the unique pulse signatures.
17. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 1, wherein the transmission medium includes a conductive medium; and wherein the sensor nodes are distributed along the conductive medium and electrically coupled to one another through the conductive medium.
18. (canceled)
19. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 17, wherein the sensor nodes are embedded in the conductive medium.
20. (canceled)
21. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 17, wherein the conductive medium is elastic and flexible.
22. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 1, wherein the conductive medium is mesh or planar in form.
23. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 17, wherein the conductive medium includes at least one of a conductive fabric, a conductive bulk conductor, a conductive substrate, a conductive solid, a conductive gel, and a conductive fluid.
24. (canceled)
25. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 1, wherein each sensor node is triggered, upon receipt of the corresponding sensory signal in a first state, to transmit the associated unique pulse signature, and upon receipt of the corresponding sensory signal in a second state, to transmit the associated further unique pulse signature independently through the transmission medium.
26. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 1, wherein each sensor node is configured to transmit the associated further unique pulse signature independently through the transmission medium to indicate an internal state of the respective sensor node.
27. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 1, wherein the unique pulse signatures of each sensor node have different pulse polarities.
28. The sensor-based communication apparatus of claim 1, wherein the representation of the stimulus event is a spatiotemporal representation.
29. (canceled)
30. A sensor-based communication method comprising: receiving a sensory signal generated by a corresponding sensor in response to a respective stimulus, and upon receipt of the sensory signal, triggering respective ones of a plurality of sensor nodes to transmit an associated unique pulse signature independently and asynchronously through a transmission medium shared by the sensor nodes, the unique pulse signatures transmitted by the sensor nodes being a representation of a stimulus event associated with the stimuli detected by the corresponding sensors.
31. 31-51. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
