<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/10,G10L15/26,H04L12/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CALENDAR.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAMPTON, JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71517084
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COORDINATED INTELLIGENT MULTI-PARTY CONFERENCING
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are described for implementing a virtual assistant that manages and participates in events on an electronic calendar. The virtual assistant determines meeting times based on availability of key participants, and at the appropriate time logs the user into conference bridges, requests permission to record audio, records audio of the meeting, and uses a machine learning model to generate meeting transcripts that identify each participant and the associated portions of the audio recording during which the participant is speaking. The virtual assistant may summarize what was discussed at the meeting, and may associate the summary and transcript with the calendar event to provide a permanent record of the meeting. The virtual assistant may also selectively record only those participants who grant permission to be recorded, and may participate in the meeting and answer queries from meeting participants.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a data store configured to store computer-executable instructions; and a processor in communication with the data store, wherein the computer-executable instructions, when executed by the processor, configure the processor to perform operations including: obtaining an event schedule, the event schedule including a plurality of events, each of the plurality of events comprising a scheduled start time and a scheduled duration; determining that a current time corresponds to the scheduled start time of a first event of the plurality of events; determining that the first event corresponds to a conference for which a virtual assistant has been requested, the conference comprising a plurality of participants; establishing at least an audio connection to the conference; receiving, via the audio connection, audio data associated with the conference; determining one or more associations between portions of the audio data and individual participants of the plurality of participants based at least in part on a machine learning model trained on previously obtained audio data; generating, based at least in part on the audio data and the one or more associations, a transcript of the conference, the transcript including information regarding the one or more associations; and updating the first event on the event schedule to include information regarding the transcript.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further include: transmitting an audio message via the audio connection, the audio message indicating that the conference is being recorded; and receiving, from individual participants of the plurality of participants, an indication that the individual participant consents to being recorded.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the transcript includes only portions of the audio data associated with participants who consent to being recorded.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further include determining, based at least in part on the audio data and the machine learning model, at least one of an actual start time of the conference or an actual end time of the conference.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further include generating a summary of the transcript based at least in part on natural language processing of the audio data.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein updating the first event to include information regarding the transcript comprises updating the first event to include the summary.
7. A computer-implemented method, comprising: determining that a current time corresponds to a start time of an event on an electronic calendar, wherein the event is associated with a plurality of participants; establishing at least an audio connection to the event; receiving, via the audio connection, audio data associated with the event; determining one or more associations between portions of the audio data and individual participants of the plurality of participants based at least in part on a machine learning model trained on previously obtained audio data; generating, based at least in part on the audio data and the one or more associations, a transcript of the event, the transcript including information identifying the individual participants and the associated portions of the audio data; and associating the transcript with the event on the electronic calendar.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7 further comprising determining that one of the participants in the event is a key participant.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8 further comprising: determining that a likelihood that the key participant will attend the event does not satisfy a threshold; in response to determining that the likelihood does not satisfy the threshold, generating a reminder to attend the event; and transmitting the reminder to the key participant.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein generating the reminder comprises identifying a topic of interest to the key participant, and wherein the reminder indicates that the event is associated with the topic of interest.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 7 further comprising determining, based at least in part on the audio data, that a quorum is present at the event.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein establishing at least an audio connection to the event comprises establishing a connection to one or more of a teleconference, videoconference, or chat room.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the transcript comprises a plurality of timestamped portions of the audio data, and wherein individual timestamped portions of the plurality of timestamped portions are associated with respective participants.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the machine learning model is trained on previously obtained audio data associated with at least a portion of the plurality of participants.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 7 further comprising: determining, based at least in part on the audio data, that the event has ended; and terminating the audio connection to the event.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 7 further comprising: determining, during the event, that a portion of the audio data corresponds to a query addressed to a virtual assistant; extracting the query from the portion of the audio data; processing the query to obtain search results; and transmitting at least a portion of the search results via the audio connection.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, configure the processor to perform operations including: receiving, via an audio connection, audio data associated with an event on an electronic calendar; determining, based at least in part on a machine learning model trained on previously obtained audio data, one or more associations between portions of the audio data and individual participants in the event; generating, based at least in part on the audio data and the one or more associations, a transcript of the event including information identifying the individual participants and the associated portions of the audio data; and associating the transcript with the event on the electronic calendar.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein associating the transcript with the event on the electronic calendar comprises associating an electronic file comprising the transcript with the event.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further include establishing the audio connection at a scheduled start time of the event.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the event comprises one or more of an audio conference, video conference, or web conference.
</claims>
</document>
