<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2003-11-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MCAFEE
</assignee>

<inventors>
Jordan, Christopher J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51493592
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICE, SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DEFENDING A COMPUTER NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
A device, system, and method for defending a computer network are described. network communications are received by a traffic filter, which dynamically determines whether the communications include an anomaly (i.e., are "anomalous" communications), or whether the communications are normal, and do not include an anomaly. The traffic filter routes normal communications to the correct device within its network for servicing he service requested by the communications. The traffic filter routes any anomalous communications to a virtual space engine, which is configured to fake a requested service (e.g., to entice deployment of a malicious payload). Anomalous communications are analyzed using an analytical engine, which can dynamically develop rules for handling anomalous communications in-line, and the rules developed by the analytical engine can be employed by the traffic filter against future received communications.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-18. (canceled)
19. A non-transitory processor-readable medium comprising code representing instructions to cause a processor to perform a method comprising: receiving a plurality of network communications from a traffic filter, the plurality of network communications including a normal communication and an anomalous communication, the normal communication associated with a service that exists within a network associated with the traffic filter, the anomalous communication having an anomaly; determining which network communication from the plurality of network communications is the anomalous communication; and generating a rule associated with the plurality of network communications, the rule to filter the anomalous communication from the normal communication, the rule at least partially based on an analysis of the plurality of network communications.
20. The processor-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the anomalous communication is associated with a service that does not exist within the network associated with the traffic filter.
21. The processor-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the generating generates a rule using a specific trait of the anomalous communication, the specific trait not including a detected anomaly of the anomalous communication.
22. The processor-readable medium of claim 19, the method further comprising: comparing the normal communication with the anomalous communication.
23. The processor-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the determining determines if any communication from the plurality of network communications includes a malicious payload, the generating to generate a rule based on an anomaly associated with the malicious payload.
24. The processor-readable medium of claim 19, the method further comprising: determining an impact of the generated rule on the network associated with the traffic filter; and adjusting the generated rule impact to form an adjusted rule at least partially based on the determined impact.
25. The processor-readable medium of claim 19, the method further comprising: routing the anomalous communication to a predetermined component within the network associated with the traffic filter, responsive to a determination that the anomalous communication is to be handled by a service that does not exist within the network associated with the traffic filter.
26. A method, comprising: receiving a plurality of network communications from a traffic filter, the plurality of network communications including a normal communication and an anomalous communication, the normal communication associated with a service that exists within a network associated with the traffic filter, the anomalous communication having an anomaly; determining which network communication from the plurality of network communications is the anomalous communication; and generating a rule associated with the plurality of network communications, the rule to filter the anomalous communication from the normal communication, the rule at least partially based on an analysis of the plurality of network communications.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the anomalous communication is associated with a service that does not exist within the network associated with the traffic filter.
28. The method of claim 26, wherein the generating generates a rule using a specific trait of the anomalous communication, the specific trait not including a detected anomaly of the anomalous communication.
29. The method of claim 26, further comprising: comparing the normal communication with the anomalous communication.
30. The method of claim 26, wherein the determining determines if any communication from the plurality of network communications includes a malicious payload, the generating to generate a rule based on an anomaly associated with the malicious payload.
31. The method of claim 26, further comprising: determining an impact of the generated rule on the network associated with the traffic filter; and adjusting the generated rule impact to form an adjusted rule at least partially based on the determined impact.
32. The method of claim 26, further comprising: routing the anomalous communication to a predetermined component within the network associated with the traffic filter, responsive to a determination that the anomalous communication is to be handled by a service that does not exist within the network associated with the traffic filter.
33. An apparatus, comprising: a receiver that receives a plurality of network communications from a traffic filter, the plurality of network communications including a normal communication and an anomalous communication, the normal communication associated with a service that exists within a network associated with the traffic filter, the anomalous communication having an anomaly; and a processor configured to determine which network communication from the plurality of network communications is the anomalous communication and to generate a rule associated with the plurality of network communications, the rule to filter the anomalous communication from the normal communication, the rule at least partially based on an analysis of the plurality of network communications.
34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the anomalous communication is associated with a service that does not exist within the network associated with the traffic filter.
35. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the processor further is configured to generate a rule using a specific trait of the anomalous communication, the specific trait not including a detected anomaly of the anomalous communication.
36. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the processor further is configured to compare the normal communication with the anomalous communication.
37. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the processor further is configured to determine if any communication from the plurality of network communications includes a malicious payload, the generating to generate a rule based on an anomaly associated with the malicious payload.
38. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the processor further is configured to determine an impact of the generated rule on the network associated with the traffic filter and to adjust the generated rule impact to form an adjusted rule at least partially based on the determined impact.
</claims>
</document>
