<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/20,G06Q20/24,G06Q20/40,G06Q40/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SQUARE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
Hunt, Taylor
Liu, Xingjie
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73045800
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENTLY DETERMINING TERMS OF A CONDITIONAL FINANCE OFFER
</title>

<abstract>
Intelligently determining terms of conditional finance offers is described. In an example, a computing device can generate, at a first time, a finance offer for purchase of an item from a merchant, wherein the finance offer is conditional on satisfaction of a term of the finance offer. At a second time, the computing device can determine whether to modify the term of the finance offer. The computing device can determine whether the term or the modified term of the finance offer is satisfied and can finalize the finance offer after the term or the modified term of the finance offer is satisfied, wherein finalizing the finance offer enables a buyer to purchase the item from the merchant using funds associated with the finance offer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: generating, by one or more server computing devices associated with a service provider and based at least in part on information associated with a merchant or a buyer of the merchant, a finance offer for purchase of an item from the merchant, wherein the finance offer is conditional on satisfaction of a down payment term of the finance offer and the finance offer is generated at a first time prior to the purchase; receiving, between the first time and a second time after the first time, and by the one or more server computing devices, transaction data associated with one or more transactions for which one or more merchants utilize a payment processing service offered by the service provider for processing payment, wherein the transaction data is received from one or more computing devices of the one or more merchants; determining, by the one or more server computing devices associated with the service provider and at the second time, to modify the down payment term of the finance offer based at least in part on one or more signals received between the first time and the second time, wherein at least one signal of the one or more signals is determined based at least in part on the transaction data and indicates (i) that the buyer purchased another item from the one or more merchants or (ii) a change to an inventory of the merchant; causing, by the one or more server computing devices, the finance offer and a modified down payment term to be presented via a display of a device operable by the buyer; determining, by the one or more server computing devices associated with the service provider, whether the modified down payment term of the finance offer is satisfied; and finalizing, by the one or more server computing devices associated with the service provider, the finance offer after the modified down payment term of the finance offer is satisfied, wherein finalizing the finance offer enables the buyer to purchase the item from the merchant using funds provided by the service provider in association with the finance offer.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the finance offer is valid for a period of time and the finance offer is finalized only if the modified down payment term of the finance offer is satisfied prior to lapse of the period of time.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: sending, at a third time corresponding to a beginning of the period of time, an authorization request to authorize a payment instrument of the buyer for an amount of the modified down payment; determining, at a fourth time after the third time and within the period of time, that the finance offer has not been finalized and authorization of the payment instrument has expired or is going to expire; and sending, at a fifth time and prior to expiration of the period of time, a new authorization request to authorize the payment instrument for the amount of the modified down payment.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein an amount of time between the third time and the fourth time is determined by a machine-trained data model based at least in part on a characteristic of the merchant, the buyer, or the payment instrument.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein modifying the down payment term of the finance offer comprises varying an amount of the down payment, replacing the down payment term with another term that secures the finance offer, or eliminating the down payment term.
6. A system associated with a service provider, the system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable media storing instructions, that when executed, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: generating, at a first time, a finance offer for purchase of an item from a merchant, wherein the finance offer is conditional on satisfaction of a term of the finance offer; receiving, between the first time and a second time after the first time, transaction data associated with one or more transactions for which one or more merchants utilize a payment processing service offered by the service provider for processing payment, wherein the transaction data is received from one or more computing devices of the one or more merchants; determining, at the second time and based at least in part on a signal received between the first time and the second time, to modify the term of the finance offer, wherein the signal is determined based at least in part on the transaction data and indicates at least one of (i) that a buyer purchased another item from the one or more merchants, (ii) a change to an inventory of the merchant, or (iii) a change in merchant environment condition; presenting the finance offer and a modified term of the finance offer via a display of a device operable by the buyer; determining whether the modified term of the finance offer is satisfied; and finalizing the finance offer after the modified term of the finance offer is satisfied, wherein finalizing the finance offer enables the buyer to purchase the item from the merchant using funds associated with the finance offer.
7. The system of claim 6, the operations further comprising: receiving, from the device operable by the buyer, a request for a loan to enable the buyer to purchase the item from the merchant; and generating the finance offer responsive to receiving the request.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the request is received in association with the purchase of the item at a point-of-sale (POS), prior to the purchase, or after the purchase.
9. The system of claim 6, the operations further comprising: determining a level of risk associated with the buyer; and generating the finance offer based at least in part on the level of risk, wherein the term is based at least in part on the level of risk associated with the buyer.
10. The system of claim 6, wherein the term is based on a cost of the item.
11. The system of claim 6, wherein the term is a down payment term, the finance offer is valid for a period of time, and the finance offer is finalized only if the down payment term, as modified to a modified down payment term, is satisfied prior to lapse of the period of time.
12. The system of claim 11, the operations further comprising: sending, at a third time corresponding to a beginning of the period of time, an authorization request to authorize a payment instrument of the buyer for an amount of the modified down payment term; determining, at a fourth time after the third time and within the period of time, that the finance offer has not been finalized and authorization of the payment instrument has expired or is going to expire; and sending, at a fifth time and prior to expiration of the period of time, a new authorization request to authorize the payment instrument for the amount of the modified down payment term.
13. The system of claim 6, wherein the term is a verification term requiring the buyer to answer a question or verify their identity via another user.
14. (canceled)
15. The system of claim 11, wherein determining to modify the term is based on at least one other signal comprising a time delay between the first time and the second time, a change to a credit score of the buyer, an addition of a bank account to an account of the buyer, a change to a location of the merchant, or a change to a cost of the item.
16. A computer-implemented method comprising: generating, by one or more server computing devices associated with a service provider and at a first time, a finance offer for purchase of an item from a merchant, wherein the finance offer is conditional on satisfaction of a term of the finance offer; receiving, between the first time and a second time after the first time, transaction data associated with one or more transactions for which one or more merchants utilize a payment processing service offered by the service provider for processing payment, wherein the transaction data is received from one or more computing devices of the one or more merchants; determining, by the one or more server computing devices and based at least in part on a signal received between the first time and the second time, to modify the term of the finance offer, wherein the signal is determined based at least in part on the transaction data and indicates at least one of (i) that a buyer purchased another item from the one or more merchants, (ii) a change to an inventory of the merchant, or (iii) a change in merchant environment condition; presenting the finance offer and a modified term of the finance offer via a display of a device operable by the buyer; determining, by the one or more server computing devices, whether the modified term of the finance offer is satisfied; and finalizing, by the one or more server computing devices, the finance offer after the modified term of the finance offer is satisfied, wherein finalizing the finance offer enables [[a]]the buyer to purchase the item from the merchant using funds provided by the service provider in association with the finance offer.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, the operations further comprising: receiving, from the device operable by the buyer, a request for a loan to enable the buyer to purchase the item from the merchant, wherein the request is received in association with the purchase of the item at a point-of-sale (POS), prior to the purchase, or after the purchase; and generating the finance offer responsive to receiving the request.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein: the term is a down payment term that is based on a cost of the item; and the finance offer is valid for a period of time and the finance offer is finalized only if the down payment term, as modified, is satisfied prior to lapse of the period of time.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein: the term is a verification term requiring the buyer to answer a question or verify their identity via another user; and the finance offer is valid for a period of time and the finance offer is finalized only if the verification term, as modified, is satisfied prior to lapse of the period of time.
20. (canceled)
21. The system of claim 6, wherein the second time is at a time of the purchase of the item at a point-of-sale (POS) of the merchant.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the second time is at a time of the purchase of the item at a point-of-sale (POS) of the merchant.
</claims>
</document>
