<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G06F3/0488,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJI XEROX COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
TASHIRO, KIYOSHI
TOGO, ATSUSHI
MATSUO YOSHIHISA
IIMURA, KAZUYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69720858
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NON-TRANSITORY COMPUTER READABLE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a program that causes a processor to function as an information processing apparatus. The information processing apparatus includes a receiving unit configured to receive an input of a natural sentence that describes the content of a process for a process target, a generator configured to generate a series of processes including the process in accordance with the received natural sentence, and a display controller configured to perform control so as to display content information indicating contents of the generated series of processes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a program that causes a processor to function as an information processing apparatus, the information processing apparatus comprising: a receiving unit configured to receive an input of a natural sentence that describes the content of a process for a process target; a generator configured to generate a series of processes including the process in accordance with the received natural sentence; and a display controller configured to perform control so as to display content information indicating contents of the generated series of processes.
2. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 1, wherein the display controller performs the control so as to display the content information in accordance with an operator who instructs execution of the series of processes.
3. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 2, wherein when the generated series of processes include a delivery process of delivering the process target among a plurality of the operators, the display controller performs control so as to display delivery information indicating the delivery process.
4. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 3, wherein when the series of processes include a process to be executed in accordance with a predetermined condition, the display controller performs control so as to display the predetermined condition.
5. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 1, wherein when the input natural sentence is changed, the display controller performs control so as to change and display the content information in accordance with the changed natural sentence.
6. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 5, wherein the information processing apparatus further comprises a complementing unit configured to, when the input natural sentence does not include a specific element, complement the natural sentence with the specific element, and the display controller performs control so as to change and display the content information in accordance with the natural sentence complemented with the specific element by the complementing unit.
7. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 6, wherein the display controller performs control so as to display an input assistance unit configured to prompt the operator to input the specific element to the natural sentence.
8. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 6, wherein the information processing apparatus further comprises a warning unit configured to, when the input natural sentence does not satisfy a predetermined criterion, output warning information indicating a warning.
9. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a program that causes a processor to function as an information processing apparatus, the information processing apparatus comprising: a generator configured to generate a series of processes for a process target in accordance with an operation of arranging a display target; and a display controller configured to perform control so as to display contents of the generated series of processes in a natural sentence.
10. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 9, wherein the display controller performs the control so as to display the contents of the series of processes in the natural sentence in accordance with an instruction of an operator.
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 10, wherein the display controller performs the control so as to display the contents of the series of processes in the natural sentence when the display target is being operated.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 11, wherein the display controller performs control so as to emphasize and display a portion of the natural sentence that is associated with the display target being operated.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 9, wherein when the display target is changed, the display controller performs control so as to change and display the natural sentence in accordance with the changed display target.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 13, wherein the display controller performs control so as to emphasize and display the changed natural sentence.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 14, wherein the display controller performs control so as to display only the changed portion of the natural sentence.
16. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a program that causes a processor to function as an information processing apparatus, the information processing apparatus comprising: a first receiving unit configured to receive an input of a natural sentence that describes the content of a process for a process target; a second receiving unit configured to receive an operation of arranging a display target in accordance with the process; a switching unit configured to switch which one of (i) control by the first receiving unit and (ii) control by the second receiving unit is enabled; and a generator configured to generate a series of processes in accordance with the natural sentence or the operation received by the first receiving unit or the second receiving unit which is enabled by the switching unit.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 16, wherein the switching unit switches which one of the first receiving unit and the second receiving unit is enabled, in accordance with an operation by the operator.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 17, wherein the switching unit switches from a state in which the first receiving unit is enabled to a state in which the second receiving unit is enabled, in accordance with an index indicating a state of the generated series of processes.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 18, wherein when the index is equal to or less than a predetermined value, the switching unit switches from the state in which the first receiving unit is enabled to the state in which the second receiving unit is enabled.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 16, wherein the information processing apparatus further comprises a display controller configured to, when the natural sentence received by the first receiving unit does not satisfy a predetermined criterion, perform control so as to display the switching unit.
21. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 20, wherein when the first receiving unit does not receive the input of the natural sentence within a predetermined time, the display controller performs the control so as to display the switching unit.
</claims>
</document>
