<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T19/00,H04N21/41,H04N21/414,H04W4/021
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAGIC LEAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
LUNDMARK, DAVID C.
RABINOVICH, ANDREW
BROWY, ERIC C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73016789
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTENT PROVISIONING SYSTEM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
The invention provides a content provisioning system. A mobile device has a mobile device processor. The mobile device mobile device has communication interface connected to the mobile device processor and a first resource device communication interface and under the control of the mobile device processor to receive first content transmitted by the first resource device transmitter The mobile device mobile device has a mobile device output device connected to the mobile device processor and under control of the mobile device processor capable of providing an output that can be sensed by a user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A content provisioning system comprising: a mobile device having: a mobile device processor; a mobile device receiver, connected to the mobile device processor and a first resource device communication interface of the first resource device is at first location, and under the control of the mobile device processor to receive first content transmitted by the first resource device communication interface so that the mobile device communication interface creates a first connection with the first resource device, wherein the first content is specific to a first geographic parameter of the first connection; and a mobile device output device connected to the mobile device processor and under control of the mobile device processor capable of providing an output that can be sensed by a user.
2. The content provisioning system of claim 1, further comprising: a first resource device having: a first resource device processor; a first resource device storage medium; and a first resource device data set including first content on the first resource device storage medium, the first resource device communication interface forming part of the first resource device and connected to the first resource device processor and being under the control of the first resource device processor.
3. The content provisioning system of claim 1, further comprising: a second resource device having: a second resource device processor; a second resource device storage medium; a second resource device data set including second content on the second resource device storage medium; and a second resource device communication interface forming part of the second resource device and connected to the second resource device processor and being under the control of the second resource device processor, wherein the second resource device is at second location, wherein the mobile device communication interface creates a second connection with the second resource device, and wherein the second content is specific to a second geographic parameter of the second connection.
4. The content provisioning system of claim 3, wherein the mobile device includes a head-worn viewing component which is couplable to the head of the user and the first and second content provide the user with at least one of additional content, enhanced content and information that pertains to a particular view of the world as seen by the user.
5. The content provisioning system of claim 3, further comprising: a localization island for the user to enter wherein specific features have been pre-configured to be located and interpreted by the mobile device to determine the geographic parameter relative to the world around the user.
6. The content provisioning system of claim 5, wherein the specific features are visually-detectable features.
7. The content provisioning system of claim 5, wherein the specific features are wireless connectivity-related features.
8. The content provisioning system of claim 5, wherein a plurality of sensors connected to the head-worn viewing component that are used by the mobile device to determine the geographic parameter relative to the world around the user.
9. The content provisioning system of claim 5, further comprising: a user interface configured to allow the user to at least one of intake, utilize, view, and bypass certain information of the first or second content.
10. The content provisioning system of claim 1, wherein the connection is a wireless connection.
11. The content provisioning system of claim 1, wherein the mobile device has a sensor that detects a first feature at the first location and the first feature is used to determine the first geographic parameter associated with the first feature, and wherein the first content is specific to a first geographic parameter.
12. The content provisioning system of claim 11, wherein the second resource device is at second location, wherein the mobile device has a sensor that detects a second feature at the second location and the second feature is used to determine a second geographic parameter associated with the second feature, and wherein the first content is updated with second content specific to a second geographic parameter.
13. The content provisioning system of claim 12, wherein the mobile device includes a head-worn viewing component which is couplable to the head of the user and the first and second content provide the user with at least one of additional content, enhanced content and information that pertains to a particular view of the world as seen by the user.
14. The content provisioning system of claim 1, further comprising: a spatial computing layer between the mobile device and a resource layer having a plurality of data sources and programmed to: receive data resources; integrate the data resources to determine an integrated profile; and determine the first content based on the integrated profile.
15. The content provisioning system of claim 14, wherein the spatial computing layer includes: a spatial computing resource device having: a spatial computing resource device processor; a spatial computing resource device storage medium; and a spatial computing resource device data set on the spatial computing resource device storage medium and executable by the processor to: receive the data resources; integrate the data resources to determine an integrated profile; and determine the first content based on the integrated profile.
16. The content provisioning system of claim 14, further comprising: an abstraction and arbitration layer interposed between the mobile device and the resource layer and programmed to: make workload decisions; and distribute tasks based on the workload decisions.
17. The content provisioning system of claim 14, further comprising: a camera device that takes images of a physical world around the mobile device, wherein the images are used to make the workload decisions.
18. The content provisioning system of claim 14, further comprising: a camera device that takes images of a physical world around the mobile device, wherein the images form one of the data resources.
19. The content provisioning system of claim 1, wherein the first resource device is an edge resource device, further comprising: wherein the mobile device communication interface includes one or more mobile device receivers connected to the mobile device processor and to a second resource device communication interface in parallel with the connection with the first resource device to receive second content.
20. The content provisioning system of claim 19, wherein the second resource device is a fog resource device having a second latency that is slower than the first latency.
21. The content provisioning system of claim 20, wherein the mobile device communication interface includes one or more mobile device receivers connected to the mobile device processor and to a third resource device communication interface in parallel with the connection with the second resource device to receive third content transmitted by the third resource device transmitter, wherein the third resource device is a cloud resource device having a third latency that is slower than the second latency.
22. The content provisioning system of claim 20, wherein the connection to the edge resource device is through a cell tower and the connection to the fog resource device is through a Wi-Fi connection device.
23. The content provisioning system of claim 22, wherein the cell tower is connected to the fog resource device.
24. The content provisioning system of claim 22, wherein the Wi-Fi connection device is connected to the fog resource device.
25. The content provisioning system of claim 19, further comprising: at least one camera to capture at least first and second images, wherein the mobile device processor transmits the first image to the edge resource device for faster processing and the second image to the fog resource device for slower processing.
26. The content provisioning system of claim 25, wherein the at least one camera is a room camera that takes the first image of the user.
27. The content provisioning system of claim 19, further comprising: a sensor providing a sensor input into a processor; a pose estimator, executable by a processor, to calculate to a pose of the mobile device, including at least one of a location and an orientation of the mobile device, based on the sensor input; a steerable wireless connector that creates a steerable wireless connection between the mobile device and the edge resource device; and a steering system connected to the pose estimator and having an output that provides an input into the steerable wireless connector to steer the steerable wireless connection to at least improve the connection.
28. The content provisioning system of claim 27, wherein the steerable wireless connector is a phased array antennae.
29. The content provisioning system of claim 27, wherein the steerable wireless connector is a radar hologram type of transmission connector.
30. The content provisioning system of claim 19, further comprising: an arbitrator function executable by a processor to: determine how many edge and fog resources are available through the edge and fog resource devices respectively; send processing tasks to the edge and fog resources according to the determination of the resources that are available; and receive results back from the edge and fog resources.
31. The content provisioning system of claim 30, wherein the arbitrator function is executable by the processor to: combine the results from the edge and fog resources.
32. The content provisioning system of claim 30, further comprising: a runtime controller function executable by the processor to: determine whether a process is a runtime process or not; if the determination is made that the task is a runtime process then, executing the task immediately without making the determination with the arbitrator function; and if the determination is made that the task is not a runtime process then making the determination with the arbitrator function.
33. The content provisioning system of claim 19, further comprising: a plurality of edge resource devices, data exchanging between a plurality of the edge resource devices and the fog resource device, the data including points in space captured by different sensors and sent to the edge resource devices; and a superpoint calculation function, executable by a processor, to determine superpoints, being select ones of the points where the data from two or more of the edge resource devices overlap.
34. The content provisioning system of claim 33, further comprising: a plurality of mobile devices, wherein each superpoint is used in each mobile devices for localization, orientation or pose estimation of the respective mobile device.
35. The content provisioning system of claim 34, further comprising: a context trigger function, executable with at processor, to generate a context trigger for a group of the superpoints and store the context trigger on a computer-readable medium.
36. The content provisioning system of claim 35, further comprising: a rendering engine, executable by the mobile device processor, wherein the context trigger is used as a handle for a rendering of an object based on the first content.
37. The content provisioning system of claim 1, further comprising: a rendering function executable by the mobile device processor to: connect the mobile device to a plurality of resource devices; transmit one or more rendering requests, wherein each resource device receives a respective rendering request; receive, a rendering from each one of the remote devices based on the respective rendering requests; compare the renderings to determine a preferred rendering; and select, with the mobile device processor, the preferred rendering as the first content transmitted by the first resource device transmitter.
38. The content provisioning system of claim 37, wherein the renderings form a system having a polynomial prediction for rendering frames into the future where the mobile device is predicted to be posed or looking.
39. 39-592. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
