<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/29,G06F30/10,G06Q10/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FAR EASTONE TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG, TSUNG-JEN
LIAO, CHE-YU
RAO, HERMAN CHUNGHWA
CHIANG, HUA-PEI
JANG, CHYI-DAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123987
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MANAGEMENT APPARATUS AND MANAGEMENT METHOD THEREOF FOR ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A management apparatus and a management method thereof for electronic equipment are provided. The management apparatus includes a detector, a display and a processor. The detector obtains a detected data related to the electronic equipment. The display presents information. The processor is coupled to the display and the detector. The processor is configured to perform the following steps. The electronic equipment is identified according to the detected data of the electronic equipment. The detected data includes an image of the electronic equipment. Electronic equipment information is obtained according to an identified result of the electronic equipment. The electronic equipment information may include specification information, asset information and/or operation configuration. The electronic equipment information may be displayed on the display. Accordingly, the operation for an on-site engineer would be improved.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A management apparatus for electronic equipment, comprising: a detector, obtaining a detected data related to the electronic equipment; a display, presenting information; and a processor, coupled to the display and the detector, and the processor being configured to: identify the electronic equipment according to the detected data of the electronic equipment, the detected data including an image of the electronic equipment; obtain electronic equipment information according to an identified result of the electronic equipment, the electronic equipment information including at least one of specification information, asset information, operation state and operation configuration; and display the electronic equipment information on the display.
2. The management apparatus for electronic equipment according to claim 1, wherein the detected data further includes one of sound and position information of the management apparatus, while the processor is configured to: identify the electronic equipment conformed to the sound, or compare adjacent electronic equipment recorded on an electronic map according to the position information.
3. The management apparatus for electronic equipment according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: obtain work order information according to the detected data, the work order information being related to construction or maintenance and operation of the electronic equipment; and integrate the work order information with the electronic equipment information, and present an integration result on the display.
4. The management apparatus for electronic equipment according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: identify an equipment defect according to the detected data, the equipment defect being related to a construction fault or an equipment trouble; and obtain corresponding solution information according to the equipment defect.
5. The management apparatus for electronic equipment according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: select a spatial model according to the identified result; construct the spatial model on a background image, the background image being one of a virtual image or a real-time image; and combine the spatial model with the background image to present on the display.
6. The management apparatus for electronic equipment according to claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to: select an initial framework; construct a main body based on the initial framework and reserve a component space in the main body; select at least one object placed in the component space of the main body; re-construct the main body in response to insufficiency of the component space; and preserve the at least one object and corresponding data by classification.
7. The management apparatus for electronic equipment according to claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to: present the spatial model on the display in micro-scale in response to an magnifying operation.
8. The management apparatus for electronic equipment according to claim 1, further comprising: a communication transceiver, coupled to the processor and transceiving data, wherein the processor is configured to: send the detected data by the communication transceiver; and obtain rear-end information corresponding to the detected data by the communication transceiver, the rear-end information being related to information of equipment setting, manual operation or troubleshooting.
9. The management apparatus for electronic equipment according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: construct a spatial model based on the detected data; and analyze and repair the spatial model.
10. The management apparatus for electronic equipment according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: obtain information about different brands or models or a specification comparison sheet for the identified result of the electronic equipment.
11. A management method for electronic equipment, comprising: obtaining a detected data related to electronic equipment; identifying the electronic equipment according to the detected data of the electronic equipment, the detected data including an image of the electronic equipment; obtaining electronic equipment information according to an identified result of the electronic equipment, electronic equipment information including at least one of specification information, asset information, operation state and operation configuration; and displaying the electronic equipment information.
12. The management method for electronic equipment according to claim 11, wherein the detected data further includes one of sound and position information of a management apparatus, and the step of identifying the electronic equipment according to the detected data of the electronic equipment comprises: identifying the electronic equipment conformed to the sound, or comparing adjacent electronic equipment on an electronic map according to the position information.
13. The management method for electronic equipment according to claim 11, after the step of obtaining the relevant detected data of the electronic equipment, further comprising: obtaining work order information according to the detected data, the work order information being related to construction or maintenance and operation of the electronic equipment; and integrating the work order information with the electronic equipment information, and presenting an integration result on a display.
14. The management method for electronic equipment according to claim 11, after the step of obtaining the relevant detected data of the electronic equipment, further comprising: identifying an equipment defect according to the detected data, the equipment defect being related to a construction fault or an equipment trouble; and obtaining corresponding solution information according to the equipment defect.
15. The management method for electronic equipment according to claim 11, after the step of obtaining the electronic equipment information according to the identified result of the electronic equipment, further comprising: selecting a spatial model according to the identified result; constructing the spatial model on a background image, the background image being one of a virtual image or a real-time image; and combining the spatial model with the background image to present on a display.
16. The management method for electronic equipment according to claim 15, further comprising: selecting an initial framework; constructing a main body based on the initial framework and reserving a component space in the main body; selecting at least one object placed in the component space of the main body; re-constructing the main body in response to insufficiency of the component space; and preserving the at least one object and corresponding data by classification.
17. The management method for electronic equipment according to claim 15, wherein the step of presenting on the display comprises: presenting the spatial model on the display in micro-scale in response to an magnifying operation.
18. The management method for electronic equipment according to claim 11, after the step of obtaining the relevant detected data of the electronic equipment, further comprising: sending the detected data; and obtaining rear-end information corresponding to the detected data, the rear-end information being related to information of equipment setting, manual operation or troubleshooting.
19. The management method for electronic equipment according to claim 11, after the step of obtaining the relevant detected data of the electronic equipment, further comprising: constructing a spatial model based on the detected data; and analyzing and repairing the spatial model.
20. The management method for electronic equipment according to claim 11, after the step of identifying the electronic equipment information according to the detected data of the electronic equipment, further comprising: obtaining information about different brands or models or a specification comparison sheet for the identified result of the electronic equipment.
</claims>
</document>
