<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/20,G06T19/00,G09B19/06,G09B5/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROY, SUBHASISH
MUKHOPADYAYA, SUDIPTA
RAM BHUYAN, MUKUNDA
SINGH, INDERPREET
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69162488
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
UTILIZING MACHINE LEARNING MODELS TO AUTOMATICALLY PROVIDE CONNECTED LEARNING SUPPORT AND SERVICES
</title>

<abstract>
A device receives media data from one or more streaming devices, receives educational data from one or more server devices, and receives Internet of Things (IoT) data from one or more IoT devices. The device pre-processes the media data, the educational data, and the IoT data to generate pre-processed data, and generates one or more machine learning models based on the pre-processed data. The device optimizes parameters for the one or more machine learning models, and validates the one or more machine learning models, based on optimizing the parameters for the one or more machine learning models, to generate one or more validated machine learning models. The device determines, based on the one or more validated machine learning models, recommendations for learning services that are synchronized, and causes at least one of the learning services to be implemented based on the recommendations for the learning services.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: one or more memories; and one or more processors, communicatively coupled to the one or more memories, to: receive media data from one or more streaming devices; receive educational data from one or more server devices; receive Internet of Things (IoT) data from one or more IoT devices; pre-process the media data, the educational data, and the IoT data to generate pre-processed data; generate one or more machine learning models based on the pre-processed data; optimize parameters for the one or more machine learning models; validate the one or more machine learning models, based on optimizing the parameters for the one or more machine learning models, to generate one or more validated machine learning models; determine, based on the one or more validated machine learning models, recommendations for learning services that are synchronized; and cause at least one of the learning services to be implemented based on the recommendations for the learning services.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors, when pre-processing the media data, the educational data, and the IoT data, are to: apply one or more pre-processing techniques to the media data, the educational data, and the IoT data to generate the pre-processed data, the one or more pre-processing techniques including one or more of: a data cleansing technique, a data reduction technique, a data transformation technique, or a feature extraction technique.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors, when pre-processing the media data, are to: parse the media data to obtain a streaming topology for the media data; identify frames in the streaming topology; and convert the frames into recommended media data, the recommended media data being included in the pre-processed data.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors, when pre-processing the media data, are to: perform segmentation and feature extraction on the media data to identify frames in the media data; determine relationships between the frames in the media data; and identify recommended media data based on the relationships between the frames, the recommended media data being included in the pre-processed data.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors, when generating the one or more machine learning models based on the pre-processed data, are to: utilize a classification technique, a clustering technique, and a decision tree analysis on the pre-processed data to generate the one or more machine learning models.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more machine learning models include one or more of: a support vector machine model, a multivariate decision tree model, a genetic model, or a linear regression model.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the learning services include one or more of: a learning service that provides a remote classroom, a learning service that provides a presence in learning environment, a learning service that provides a virtual reality avatar-based class environment, a learning service that provides augmented reality applications to supplement learning, a learning service that provides visualization of complex models, objects, and data, or a learning service that provides foreign language immersion.
8. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions comprising: one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a device, cause the one or more processors to: receive media data that includes one or more of video streaming data, voice data, or image data; receive educational data associated with educational courses and subject matter included in the educational courses; receive Internet of Things (IoT) data from IoT devices, the IoT data being associated with the media data and the educational data; apply one or more pre-processing techniques to the media data, the educational data, and the IoT data to generate pre-processed data; generate one or more validated machine learning models based on the pre-processed data; utilize the one or more validated machine learning models to determine recommendations for learning services; and cause at least one of the learning services to be implemented based on the recommendations for the learning services.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to generate the one or more validated machine learning models, cause the one or more processors to: generate one or more machine learning models based on the pre-processed data; optimize parameters for the one or more machine learning models; and validate the one or more machine learning models, based on optimizing the parameters for the one or more machine learning models, to generate the one or more validated machine learning models.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to generate the one or more machine learning models, cause the one or more processors to: utilize one of a classification technique, a clustering technique, or a decision tree analysis on the pre-processed data to generate the one or more machine learning models.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the one or more pre-processing techniques include one or more of: a data cleansing technique, a data reduction technique, a data transformation technique, or a feature extraction technique.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the at least one of the learning services includes a learning service that provides one of: a remote classroom, a presence in learning environment, a virtual reality avatar-based class environment, augmented reality applications to supplement learning, visualization of complex models, objects, and data, or foreign language immersion.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to apply the one or more pre-processing techniques to the media data, cause the one or more processors to: parse the media data to obtain a streaming topology for the media data; identify frames in the streaming topology; and convert the frames into recommended media data, the recommended media data being included in the pre-processed data.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to apply the one or more pre-processing techniques to the media data, cause the one or more processors to: perform segmentation and feature extraction on the media data to identify frames in the media data; determine relationships between the frames in the media data; and identify recommended media data based on the relationships between the frames, the recommended media data being included in the pre-processed data.
15. A method, comprising: receiving, by a device, data that includes one or more of: media data that includes video streaming data, voice data, or image data, educational data associated with educational courses and subject matter included in the educational courses, or Internet of Things (IoT) data provided by IoT devices; pre-processing, by the device, the data to generate pre-processed data; generating, by the device, one or more models based on the pre-processed data; optimizing, by the device, parameters for the one or more models; validating, by the device, the one or more models, based on optimizing the parameters for the one or more models, to generate one or more validated models; utilizing, by the device, the one or more validated models to determine recommendations for learning services; and causing, by the device, at least one of the learning services to be implemented based on the recommendations for the learning services.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the one or more models include: one or more artificial intelligence models, or one or more machine learning models.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein pre-processing the data includes: applying one or more pre-processing techniques to the data to generate the pre-processed data, the one or more pre-processing techniques including one or more of: a data cleansing technique, a data reduction technique, a data transformation technique, or a feature extraction technique.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein pre-processing the data includes: parsing the media data to obtain a streaming topology for the media data; identifying frames in the streaming topology; and converting the frames into recommended media data, the recommended media data being included in the pre-processed data.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein pre-processing the data includes: performing segmentation and feature extraction on the media data to identify frames in the media data; determining relationships between the frames in the media data; and identifying recommended media data based on the relationships between the frames, the recommended media data being included in the pre-processed data.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein generating the one or more models based on the pre-processed data includes: utilizing one of a classification technique, a clustering technique, or a decision tree analysis on the pre-processed data to generate the one or more models.
</claims>
</document>
