<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q40/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUIT
</assignee>

<inventors>
DIBNER-DUNLAP, AARON
FURBISH, KEVIN
RANGANATHAN, NIRMALA
RAHMAN, Sumayah
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67614631
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BIAS PREDICTION AND CATEGORIZATION IN FINANCIAL TOOLS
</title>

<abstract>
A processor may obtain financial data for a user. The processor may process the financial data to generate feature data indicative of at least one feature. The processor may compare the at least one feature to at least one threshold value to determine that the user has a cognitive bias affecting a financial preference of the user and associated with the at least one threshold value. The at least one threshold value may denote a threshold for membership in a cluster of unlabeled users having the cognitive bias. In response to the comparing, the processor may identify a change applicable to a financial account of the user. The change may be associated with the cognitive bias. The processor may automatically cause the change to be implemented by a network-accessible financial service.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of identifying and implementing an account change comprising: obtaining, by a processor, financial data for a user; processing, by the processor, the financial data to generate feature data indicative of at least one feature; comparing, by the processor, the at least one feature to at least one threshold value to determine that the user has a cognitive bias affecting a financial preference of the user and associated with the at least one threshold value, wherein the at least one threshold value denotes a threshold for membership in a cluster of unlabeled users having the cognitive bias; in response to the comparing, identifying, by the processor, a change applicable to a financial account of the user, the change being associated with the cognitive bias; and automatically causing, by the processor, the change to be implemented by a network-accessible financial service.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the user is a household user including a plurality of individuals, and the data includes data generated by at least two of the plurality of individuals.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining, by the processor, the at least one threshold value.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the determining includes: obtaining sample financial data for a plurality of users; processing the sample financial data to generate sample feature data indicative of the at least one feature; clustering the sample feature data into a plurality of clusters; for each cluster, determining a meaning of the cluster based on at least one difference between the sample feature data in the cluster and the sample feature data in at least one other cluster, wherein the meaning of at least one of the clusters indicates that the cluster contains the unlabeled users having the cognitive bias; and for each cluster, determining the at least one threshold value denoting membership in the cluster.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the clustering is performed using a fuzzy clustering algorithm.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein determining the meaning includes: defining at least one confident feature that is known to be associated with the cognitive bias; defining at least one hypothesized feature that is presumed to be associated with the cognitive bias; and correlating at least one general feature of the sample financial data with the at least one confident feature by applying a correlation algorithm.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising verifying, by the processor, that the at least one hypothesized feature is associated with the cognitive bias by applying a correlation algorithm.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising automatically causing, by the processor, a user interface to suggest a user action configured to improve the user's finances in response to the comparing.
9. A system for identifying and implementing an account change comprising: a non-volatile memory; and a processor coupled to the memory, the processor configured to: obtain financial data for a user; process the financial data to generate feature data indicative of at least one feature; compare the at least one feature to at least one threshold value to determine that the user has a cognitive bias affecting a financial preference of the user and associated with the at least one threshold value, wherein the at least one threshold value denotes a threshold for membership in a cluster of unlabeled users having the cognitive bias; in response to the comparing, identify a change applicable to a financial account of the user, the change being associated with the cognitive bias; and automatically cause the change to be implemented by a network-accessible financial service.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the user is a household user including a plurality of individuals, and the data includes data generated by at least two of the plurality of individuals.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to determine the at least one threshold value.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to determine the at least one threshold value by performing processing comprising: obtaining sample financial data for a plurality of users; processing the sample financial data to generate sample feature data indicative of the at least one feature; clustering the sample feature data into a plurality of clusters; for each cluster, determining a meaning of the cluster based on at least one difference between the sample feature data in the cluster and the sample feature data in at least one other cluster, wherein the meaning of at least one of the clusters indicates that the cluster contains the unlabeled users having the cognitive bias; and for each cluster, determining the at least one threshold value denoting membership in the cluster.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the clustering is performed using a fuzzy clustering algorithm.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein determining the meaning includes: defining at least one confident feature that is known to be associated with the cognitive bias; defining at least one hypothesized feature that is presumed to be associated with the cognitive bias; and correlating at least one general feature of the sample financial data with the at least one confident feature by applying a correlation algorithm.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to verify that the at least one hypothesized feature is associated with the cognitive bias by applying a correlation algorithm.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to automatically cause a user interface to suggest a user action configured to improve the user's finances in response to the comparing.
17. A method of generating a model for identifying and implementing an account change comprising: obtaining, by a processor, sample financial data for a plurality of users; processing, by the processor, the sample financial data to generate sample feature data indicative of at least one feature; clustering, by the processor, the sample feature data into a plurality of clusters; for each cluster, determining, by the processor, a meaning of the cluster based on at least one difference between the sample feature data in the cluster and the sample feature data in at least one other cluster, wherein the meaning of at least one of the clusters indicates that the cluster contains unlabeled users having a cognitive bias affecting a financial preference of the unlabeled users; for each cluster, determining, by the processor, at least one threshold value denoting membership in the cluster; generating, by the processor, a model including the plurality of clusters and the at least one threshold value for each of the plurality of clusters; and distributing, by the processor, the model to at least one system configured to identify and implement an account change using the model, the account change being automatically implemented by the network-accessible financial service.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the clustering is performed using a fuzzy clustering algorithm.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein determining the meaning includes: defining at least one confident feature that is known to be associated with the cognitive bias; defining at least one hypothesized feature that is presumed to be associated with the cognitive bias; and correlating at least one general feature of the sample financial data with the at least one confident feature by applying a correlation algorithm.
20. The method of claim 17, further comprising verifying, by the processor, that the at least one hypothesized feature is associated with the cognitive bias by applying a correlation algorithm.
</claims>
</document>
