<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W24/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
JANA, RITTWIK
JANA, SHRABONI
SHARMA, DEVA-DATTA
TOFIGHBAKHSH, MOSTAFA
UNGUREANU, BOGDAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72663560
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WIRELESS NETWORK COVERAGE BASED ON A PREDETERMINED DEVICE CLUSTER MODEL SELECTED ACCORDING TO A CURRENT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR
</title>

<abstract>
Adapting wireless network coverage areas according to beam parameters corresponding to predetermined radio cluster models is disclosed. The disclosed subject matter can enable determining cluster models corresponding to historic use of a wireless network, e.g., based on historical KPIs, etc., from UEs, RAN devices, antennas, and other sources. The cluster models can correspond to beam parameters. The cluster model of the cluster models can be selected based on a current KPI value, e.g., a real-time or near real-time wireless network measurement, e.g., from a UE, RAN device, antenna, etc. Beam parameters corresponding to the selected cluster model can be communicated to a RAN device which can generate a corresponding radio beam. In an aspect, this can provide wireless connectivity to clusters of devices in the area of the radio beam, wherein the devices of the clusters can, in some embodiments, share same or similar wireless network demands.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining a first ranking of a first potential user equipment cluster coverage region of potential user equipment cluster coverage regions based on a first predicted performance of the first potential user equipment cluster coverage region; determining first operation and performance requirements of a first user equipment of a plurality of first user equipment[[s]] in a service region of a wireless network; selecting a first cluster comprising the first user equipment and second ones of the plurality of user equipment, wherein the selecting the first cluster is based on the first operation and performance requirements of the first user equipment; in response to determining a first distribution of the second ones of the plurality of user equipment comprised in the first cluster, selecting the first potential user equipment cluster coverage region based on the first ranking and the first distribution; and adapting a first radio device performance based on the first potential user equipment cluster coverage region.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the first cluster does not comprise the second ones of the plurality of user equipments.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the second ones of the user equipment comprise more than one of the plurality of user equipment.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a second ranking of a second potential user equipment cluster coverage region, wherein the second potential user equipment cluster coverage region is comprised in the potential user equipment cluster coverage regions, and wherein the second potential user equipment cluster coverage region is based on a second predicted performance for the second potential user equipment cluster coverage region; determining second operation and performance requirements for a second user equipment of the plurality of user equipment in the service region of the wireless network; selecting a second cluster comprising the second user equipment and third ones of the plurality of user equipment, wherein the selecting the second cluster is based on the second operation and performance requirements for the second user equipment; in response to determining a second distribution for the third ones of the plurality of user equipment comprised in the second cluster, selecting the second potential user equipment cluster coverage region based on the second ranking and the second distribution; and adapting a second radio device performance based on the second potential user equipment cluster coverage region.
5. The device of claim 4, wherein the adapting the first radio device performance results in a first cluster coverage region comprising a first service location in the service region of the wireless network, wherein the adapting the second radio device performance results in a second cluster coverage region comprising a second service location in the service region of the wireless network, and wherein the first service location is a different service location than the second service location.
6. The device of claim 4, wherein the adapting the first radio device performance results in a first cluster coverage region comprising a first service location in the service region of the wireless network, wherein the adapting the second radio device performance results in a second cluster coverage region comprising a second service location in the service region of the wireless network, and wherein the first service location and the second service location are the same service location.
7. The device of claim 4, wherein the adapting the first radio device performance results in a first cluster coverage region that is a different coverage region than a second cluster coverage region resulting from the adapting the second radio device performance.
8. The device of claim 4, wherein the adapting the first radio device performance results in a first cluster coverage region that is a same coverage region as a second cluster coverage region resulting from the adapting the second radio device performance.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to determining that a second user equipment of the plurality of user equipment satisfies a rule related to a level of similarity between the first operation and performance requirements of the first user equipment and second operation and performance requirements of the second user equipment, adapting the first cluster to further comprise the second user equipment.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the first predicted performance of the first potential user equipment cluster coverage region is based on historical user equipment performance corresponding to the first potential user equipment cluster coverage region.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the adapting a first radio device performance results in altering a shape of a radio-frequency lobe associated with the first radio device.
12. 12-20. (canceled)
21. A method, comprising: determining, by a system comprising a processor, a ranking of a cluster coverage region based on a predicted performance of the cluster coverage region; selecting, by the system, a cluster of user equipments comprising a first user equipment of user equipments based on operation and performance requirements of the first user equipment, wherein the cluster further comprises other user equipments other than the first user equipment of the user equipments; in response to determining, by the system, a distribution of the other user equipments, selecting the cluster coverage region based on the ranking and the distribution; and causing, by the system, a change in a radio device performance based on the cluster coverage region.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising determining, by the system, the cluster coverage region based on historical key performance indicator values.
23. The method of claim 22, further comprising associating, by the system, the cluster coverage region with predetermined radio beam parameters based on the historical key performance indicator values.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein the causing the change in the radio device performance comprises communicating a predetermined radio beam parameter corresponding to the cluster coverage region to a radio access network device resulting in the radio access network device causing a radio beam supporting the first user equipment in the cluster coverage region.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein the causing the change in the radio device performance comprises communicating a predetermined radio beam parameter corresponding to the cluster coverage region to a radio access network device resulting in the radio access network device causing a radio beam supporting the first user equipment in the cluster coverage region and supporting the other user equipments in the coverage region.
26. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: ranking potential user equipment cluster coverage regions based on corresponding predicted performances of the potential user equipment cluster coverage regions; determining a requirement of a first user equipment in a service region of a wireless network; designating a cluster of user equipments comprising the first user equipment, wherein the designating the cluster is based on the requirement of the first user equipment; selecting a first potential user equipment cluster coverage region of the potential user equipment cluster coverage regions based on the ranking of the first potential user equipment cluster coverage region and the a distribution of user equipments in the cluster of user equipments; and adapting a radio device performance based on the first potential user equipment cluster coverage region.
27. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 26, wherein the cluster of user equipments comprises at least a second user equipment.
28. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 26, wherein the adapting the radio device performance causes the radio device to support the first user equipment based on application of a predetermined radio beam parameter corresponding to the first potential user equipment cluster coverage region.
29. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 28, wherein the predetermined radio beam parameter corresponding to the first potential user equipment cluster coverage region is based on a cluster model determined from a historical key performance indicator value for the radio device.
</claims>
</document>
