<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/04,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Lopez, Beth Allison
</assignee>

<inventors>
Lopez, Beth Allison
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046437
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MICROBE SCANNING DEVICE AND METHODS THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
A microbe scanning device and methods are disclosed. The device includes a housing that includes a sensor(s), output device(s) that conveys text/audio/images, and control circuit(s) coupled to the sensor(s) and output device(s). the sensor captures first ASD and second ASD. The first and second ASD each includes an image of an appendage captured using one or more of radio waves, visible light ("VL"), and infrared light ("IR"). The control circuit is configured to determine, using ASD, whether a user is present; determine, using ASD, whether hands are present when the user is present; determine, using ASD, whether microbiol material is present on the hands; generate a notification when the microbial material is present on the hands; transmit, via the output device, the notification; generate a notification when the microbial material is not present on the hands; and transmit the second notification when generated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A microbe scanning device, comprising: a housing comprising: a sensor; an output device configured to convey one or more of text, audio, and images; a control circuit communicatively coupled to the sensor and the output device; wherein the sensor captures first appendage sensor data ("ASD") and second ASD; the first ASD and second ASD each comprising an image of an appendage captured using one or more of radio waves, visible light ("VL"), and infrared light ("IR"); the control circuit is configured to: determine, using first appendage sensor data ("ASD"), whether a user is present; determine, using second ASD, whether hands are present when it is determined that the user is present; determine, using second ASD, whether microbial material is present on the hands; generate a first notification when it is determined that the microbial material is present on the hands; transmit, via the output device, the first notification when generated; generate a second notification when it is determined that the microbial material is not present on the hands; and transmit, via the output device, the second notification when generated; wherein the first ASD comprises biometric indicators; in determining whether the user is present the control circuit is configured to: capture, via the sensor, the first ASD; and determine whether the first ASD comprises a threshold number of biometric indicators for a known user; wherein the biometric indicator comprises DNA and odor/scent.
2. (canceled)
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the biometric indicator comprises a fingerprint, a palm vein, a facial feature, a palm print, a hand geometry, an iris pattern, a retinal pattern.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the output device comprises one or more of a visual display unit, a speaker, and a touch screen.
5. The device of claim 4, wherein in determining whether the user is present the control circuit is configured to: capture, via the sensor, an IR image; determine if the IR image comprises a threshold heat signature; AND determine the user is present when the IR image comprises the threshold heat signature.
6. The device of claim 5, wherein in determining whether hands are present the control circuit is configured to: capture, via the sensor, a VL image; determine if the VL image comprises: a head region, a first hand region positioned proximate to the head region, a second hand region positioned proximate to the head region opposite the first hand region; and determine the presence of hands when the VL image comprises the head region, the first hand region, and second hand region.
7. The device of claim 6, wherein in determining whether the microbial material is present the control circuit is configured to: capture, via the sensor, a hand image of the first hand region and the second hand region using one or more of radio waves, IR, and VL; determine if the hand image comprises a microbial signature; and determine the microbial material is present when the hand image comprises the microbial signature.
8. The device of claim 7, wherein the first notification comprises one or more of audio, text, a visual indicator, and an images; and conveys that the microbial material is present on the hands and requires removal via cleaning.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the second notification comprises one or more of audio, text, a visual indicator, and an images; and conveys that the microbial material is not present on the user hands.
10. The device of claim 9, further comprising: a communications device; wherein the control circuit is communicatively coupled to the communications device; and the control circuit is configured to transmit, via the communications device, one or more of the first notification and the second notification.
11. A method to enable microbe scanning, comprising: determining, via a control circuit, whether a user is present using first appendage sensor data ("ASD"), the first ASD captured via a sensor, the sensor configured to capture first ASD and second ASD, the first ASD and the second ASD each comprising an image of an appendage captured using one or more of visible light ("VL") and infrared light ("IR"); determining, via the control circuit, whether hands are present using second ASD when it is determined that the user is present, the second ASD captured via the sensor; determining, via the control circuit, whether microbial material is present on the hands using the second ASD; generating, via the control circuit, a first notification when it is determined that the microbial material is present on the hands; transmitting, via the control circuit, the first notification using an output device; generating, via the control circuit, a second notification when it is determined that the microbial material is not present on the hands; and transmitting, via the control circuit, the second notification using the output device; wherein determining whether the user is present comprises: capturing, via the control circuit, the first ASD using the sensor; and determining whether the first ASD the first ASD comprises a threshold number of biometric indicators for a known user; wherein the biometric indicator comprises DNA and odor/scent.
12. (canceled)
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the biometric indicator comprises a fingerprint, a palm vein, a facial feature, a palm print, a hand geometry, an iris pattern, a retinal pattern.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the output device comprises one or more of a visual display unit, a speaker, and a touch screen.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein determining, via the control circuit, whether the user is present comprises: capturing, via the control circuit, an IR image using the sensor; determining, via the control circuit, if the IR image comprises a threshold heat signature; determining, via the control circuit, the user is present when the IR image comprises the threshold heat signature.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein determining whether the hands are present comprises: capturing, via the control circuit, a VL image using the sensor; determining, via the control circuit, if the VL image comprises: a head region; a first hand region positioned proximate to the head region; and a second hand region positioned proximate to the head region opposite the first hand region; and determining, via the control circuit, the hands are present when the VL image comprises the head region, the first hand region, and second hand region.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein determining whether the microbial material is present comprises: capturing, via the control circuit, a hand image of the first hand region and the second hand region using the sensor, the sensor capturing the hand image using one or more of radio waves, IR, and VL; determining, via the control circuit, if the hand image comprises a microbial signature; and determining, via the control circuit, the microbial material is present when the hand image comprises the microbial signature.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the first notification comprises one or more of audio, text, a visual indicator, and an images; and conveys that the microbial material is present on the hands and requires removal via cleaning.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the second notification comprises one or more of audio, text, a visual indicator, and an images; and conveys that the microbial material is not present on the hands.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising transmitting, via the control circuit, one or more of the first notification and the second notification using a communications device.
</claims>
</document>
