<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00,G06K9/00,G06Q30/02,G06T19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
JAEGAL, CHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68067783
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VEHICULAR ADVERTISEMENT PROVIDING DEVICE AND VEHICULAR ADVERTISEMENT PROVIDING METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a vehicular advertisement providing device including a processor configured to receive data generated by at least one server, to generate augmented reality (AR) advertisement data that matches the outside of a road in which a vehicle travels based on the data, and to provide a signal for displaying a graphic object based on the advertisement data on at least one display included in the vehicle. The vehicular advertisement providing device is included in an autonomous vehicle. The autonomous vehicle is associated with a robot. The vehicular advertisement providing device is implemented using an artificial intelligence (AI) algorithm.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicular advertisement providing device comprising: a processor configured to receive data generated by at least one server, to generate augmented reality (AR) advertisement data that matches the outside of a road in which a vehicle travels based on the data, and to provide a signal for displaying a graphic object based on the advertisement data on at least one display included in the vehicle.
2. The vehicular advertisement providing device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to provide a signal for displaying AR signage that matches the outside of the road in which the vehicle travels, to the at least one display, and provide a signal for displaying the graphic object to the AR signage.
3. The vehicular advertisement providing device of claim 2, wherein the data generated by the at least one server includes information on a position that matches the AR signage; and wherein the position is one point of the outside of the road in which the vehicle travels.
4. The vehicular advertisement providing device of claim 2, wherein the data generated by the at least one server includes at least one of information on a size of the AR signage, information on a time of displaying the AR signage, information on a position of displaying the AR signage, or information on displayed content of the AR signage.
5. The vehicular advertisement providing device of claim 2, wherein the processor is configured to provide a signal for displaying the AR signage to match an empty space of the outside of the road in which the vehicle travels or a structure, to the at least one display.
6. The vehicular advertisement providing device of claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to acquire information on a user gaze and provides a signal for displaying the AR signage at an intersection between the user gaze and the display in a state in which the user gaze is oriented toward the empty space or the structure.
7. The vehicular advertisement providing device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine at least one of a display region of the graphic object, a size of the graphic object, content of the graphic object, or a user interface method related to an advertisement, based on driving situation information.
8. The vehicular advertisement providing device of claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to receive information on an autonomous driving mode, and upon determining that the vehicle travels in an autonomous driving state, the processor is configured to provide a signal for displaying the graphic object to be relatively large compared with a case in which the vehicle travels in a manual driving state.
9. The vehicular advertisement providing device of claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to receive information on an autonomous driving mode, and upon determining that the vehicle travels in an autonomous driving state, the processor is configured to provide a signal for displaying the graphic object in a different form from a case in which the vehicle travels in a manual driving state.
10. The vehicular advertisement providing device of claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to receive information on an autonomous driving mode, and upon determining that the vehicle travels in an autonomous driving state, the processor is configured to provide a signal for implementing a user interface using a different method from a case in which the vehicle travels in a manual driving state.
11. The vehicular advertisement providing device of claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to receive user sensing data, determine an interest rate of a user with respect to the graphic object based on the user sensing data, and provide a signal for displaying a graphic object associated with the interest rate on the display.
12. The vehicular advertisement providing device of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to provide a signal for control of at least one of conversion to an autonomous driving mode, vehicle steering, acceleration, or deceleration of the vehicle, based on the interest rate.
13. The vehicular advertisement providing device of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to provide a signal for setting a destination associated with the advertisement data, based on the interest rate.
14. The vehicular advertisement providing device of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to provide a signal for outputting content associated with the advertisement data, based on the interest rate.
15. A vehicular advertisement providing method comprising: receiving data generated by at least one server, by at least one processor; generating augmented reality (AR) advertisement data that matches the outside of a road in which a vehicle travels based on the data, by the at least one processor; and providing a signal for displaying a graphic object based on the advertisement data on at least one display included in the vehicle, by the at least one processor.
16. The vehicular advertisement providing method of claim 15, wherein the providing the signal includes: providing a signal for displaying AR signage that matches the outside of the road in which the vehicle travels, to the at least one display, by the at least one processor; and providing a signal for displaying the graphic object to the AR signage, by the at least one processor.
17. The vehicular advertisement providing method of claim 16, wherein the data generated by the at least one server includes information on a position that matches the AR signage; and wherein the position is one point of the outside of the road in which the vehicle travels.
18. The vehicular advertisement providing method of claim 16, wherein the data generated by the at least one server includes at least one of information on a size of the AR signage, information on a time of displaying the AR signage, information on a position of displaying the AR signage, or information on displayed content of the AR signage.
19. The vehicular advertisement providing method of claim 16, wherein the providing the signal includes providing a signal for displaying the AR signage to match an empty space of the outside of the road in which the vehicle travels or a structure, to the at least one display, by the at least one processor.
20. The vehicular advertisement providing method of claim 19, wherein the providing the signal includes: acquiring information on a user gaze, by the at least one processor; and providing a signal for displaying the AR signage at an intersection between the user gaze and the display in a state in which the user gaze is oriented toward the empty space or the structure, by the at least one processor.
</claims>
</document>
