<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,G10L13/04,G10L15/22,G10L15/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HONG, JIYEON
CHOI, SUNGJA
RYU, SEONGHAN
CHO, YONGJIN
LEE, DONGHYEON
SEO, YUBIN
LEE, SEUNGCHUL
KANG, SECHUN
LEE, EUNJI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68654351
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC DEVICE AND METHOD OF CONTROLLING THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
When a confirmation is necessary is identified using the AI algorithm, the method may use machine learning, neural network, or a deep learning algorithm.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device comprising: a communication module comprising communication circuitry; a processor; and a memory storing at least one command which, when executed by the processor, controls the electronic device to: execute an application configured to transmit and receive at least one of text data or voice data with another electronic device using the communication module in response to occurrence of at least one event, identify whether a confirmation is necessary using a digital assistant based on receiving at least one of text data or voice data from the another electronic device and at least one of text data or voice data being generated based on a characteristic of an utterance using the digital assistant, generate a notification to request confirmation using the digital assistant based on confirmation being necessary, and output the notification using the application.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the notification to request the confirmation comprises text data or voice data based on text data or voice data received from the another electronic device.
3. The electronic device of claim 2, wherein the electronic device further comprises a display, and wherein the at least one command, when executed by the processor, controls the electronic device to: display at least one of an object to approve content of text data included in the notification to request the confirmation, an object to reject, and an object to receive a direct input.
4. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the at least one command, when executed by the processor, controls the electronic device to: identify that confirmation is required based onat least some content of text data or voice data received from the another electronic device not being consistent with at least some content of input text data or voice data.
5. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the at least one command, when executed by the processor, controls the electronic device to: identify that confirmation is required based on a proposal included in text data or voice data received from the another electronic device.
6. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the at least one command, when executed by the processor, controls the electronic device to: identify that confirmation is required based on a time that is required for responding to text data or voice data that are same or similar to the text data or voice data received from the another electronic device is greater than or equal to a predetermined time.
7. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the at least one command, when executed by the processor, controls the electronic device to: identify that confirmation is required based on a similarity between at least some of content included in text data or voice data received from the another electronic device and text data or voice data prestored in the electronic device being less than or equal to a predetermined value.
8. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the at least one command, when executed by the processor, controls the electronic device to: transmit, to the another electronic device, sound data or an indicator to provide a notification that the digital assistant generates at least one of the text data or voice data based on a characteristic of the utterance and that the text data or voice data is generated by the digital assistant based on outputting the data using the application.
9. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the at least one command, when executed by the processor, controls the electronic device to: generate summary text data or summary voice data using at least a portion of the text data or voice data received from the another electronic device or the text data or voice data generated by the digital assistant, and output the data using the application.
10. A server comprising: a data acquisition unit comprising data acquisition circuitry configured to acquire at least one of text data or voice data from an external electronic device; a data processor configured to: identify whether a confirmation is required and generate a notification to request confirmation, in response to the acquired text data or voice data and based on at least one of text data or voice data being generated based on a characteristic of an utterance,; and a data outputter comprising data output circuitry configured to transmit a notification requesting confirmation to the external electronic device.
11. A method of controlling an electronic device, the method comprising: executing an application for transmitting and receiving at least one of text data or voice data with another electronic device in response to occurrence of at least one event; identifying whether a confirmation is necessary using the digital assistant based on receiving at least one of text data or voice data from the another electronic device and at least one of text data or voice data is generated based on a characteristic of an utterance using the digital assistant; and generating a notification to request confirmation using the digital assistant based on a confirmation being necessary, and outputting the notification using the application.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the notification to request confirmation comprises text data or voice data based on text data or voice data received from the another electronic device.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: displaying at least one of an object to approve content of text data included in the notification to request confirmation, an object to reject, and an object to receive a direct input based on confirmation being necessary.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying that confirmation is required based on at least some content of text data or voice data received from the another electronic device not being consistent with at least some content of text data or voice data that are input.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying that confirmation is required based on a proposal being included in text data or voice data received from the another electronic device.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying that confirmation is required based on a time required for a user to respond to text data or voice data that are same or similar to the text data or voice data received from the another electronic device being greater than or equal to a predetermined time.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying that confirmation is required based on a similarity between at least some of content included in text data or voice data received from the another electronic device and text data or voice data prestored in the electronic device being less than or equal to a predetermined value.
18. The method of claim 11, further comprising: generating at least one of the text data or voice data by the digital assistant based on a characteristic of the utterance and transmitting, to the another electronic device, sound data or an indicator to provide a notification that the text data or voice data is generated by the digital assistant.
19. The method of claim 11, further comprising: generating summary text data or summary voice data using at least a portion of the text data or voice data received from the another electronic device or the text data or voice data generated by the digital assistant, and outputting the data using the application.
</claims>
</document>
