<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60R1/00,G06K9/00,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HYUNDAI MOBIS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHO, HEUNG RAE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69101801
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WIDE AREA SURROUND VIEW MONITORING APPARATUS FOR VEHICLE AND CONTROL METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
A wide area surround view monitoring apparatus for a vehicle includes: a camera module installed in an ego (self-driving) vehicle, and configured to acquire a surround image, wirelessly transmit the acquired surround image, wirelessly receive a camera image from a neighboring vehicle to measure RSSI, and transmit the RSSI with the surround image of the ego vehicle and the camera image of the neighboring vehicle through a vehicle network; and a controller configured to receive the surround image of the ego vehicle, the camera image of the neighboring vehicle and the RSSI from the camera module, determine and output a possibility of collision with the neighboring vehicle, configure a wide area SVM view by synthesizing the surround image of the ego vehicle with the camera image of the neighboring vehicle, and generate a local wide area image map by calculating a possible driving space of the ego vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A wide area surround view monitoring apparatus for an ego vehicle, comprising: a camera module installed in the ego vehicle, and configured to acquire a surround image, wirelessly transmit the acquired surround image, wirelessly receive a camera image from a neighboring vehicle to measure Received Signal Strength Indication (RSSI), and transmit the RSSI with the surround image of the ego vehicle and the camera image of the neighboring vehicle through a vehicle network; and a controller configured to receive the surround image of the ego vehicle, the camera image of the neighboring vehicle and the RSSI from the camera module through the vehicle network, determine and output a possibility of collision with the neighboring vehicle, configure a wide area Support Vector Machines (SVM) view by synthesizing the surround image of the ego vehicle with the camera image of the neighboring vehicle, and generate a local wide area image map by calculating a possible driving space of the ego vehicle.
2. The wide area surround view monitoring apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to determine a possibility of collision with the neighboring vehicle based on the RSSI and a degree of overlap between the surround image of the ego vehicle and the camera image of the neighboring vehicle, and to output the determination result to an autonomous driving unit.
3. The wide area surround view monitoring apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to widen a target view direction of the camera module for a direction in which the camera image of the neighboring vehicle is not received, and to acquire the surround image of the ego vehicle to configure the wide area SVM view.
4. The wide area surround view monitoring apparatus of claim 1, wherein the camera module is a variable Field of View (FOV) camera module to which a multilayer lens structure including a plurality of lenses is applied and whose FOV is varied as a focal length and refractive indexes of respective lenses of the plurality of lenses are controlled.
5. The wide area surround view monitoring apparatus of claim 4, wherein the controller is configured to transmit control information for widening the FOV to the camera module, for a direction in which the camera image of the neighboring vehicle is not received, and then to acquire the surround image of the ego vehicle to configure the wide area SVM view.
6. The wide area surround view monitoring apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to calculate a possible driving space based on an approach distance to the neighboring vehicle, a recognition state of an approaching object, and a maximum area of an image inputted from the camera module, and to generate the local wide area image map in connection with a navigation system.
7. A control method of a wide area surround view monitoring apparatus for an ego vehicle, comprising the steps of: acquiring, by a camera module, a surround image of the ego vehicle; wirelessly receiving, by the camera module, a camera image from a neighboring vehicle; measuring, by the camera module, a Received Signal Strength Indication (RSSI) of the received camera image; transmitting, by the camera module, the RSSI with the surround image of the ego vehicle and the camera image of the neighboring vehicle through a vehicle network; receiving, by a controller, the RSSI with the surround image of the ego vehicle and the camera image of the neighboring vehicle from the camera module, and determining a possibility of collision with the neighboring vehicle; configuring, by the controller, a wide area Support Vector Machines (SVM) view by synthesizing the surround image of the ego vehicle with the camera image of the neighboring vehicle; and generating, by the controller, a local wide area image map by calculating a possible driving space of the ego vehicle.
8. The control method of claim 7, wherein the step of determining of the possibility of collision with the neighboring vehicle comprises the steps of: determining, by the controller, a degree of overlap between the surround image of the ego vehicle and the camera image of the neighboring vehicle; determining, by the controller, an inter-vehicle distance to the neighboring vehicle based on the RSSI; and determining, by the controller, the possibility of collision with the neighboring vehicle based on the degree of overlap and the inter-vehicle distance.
9. The control method of claim 8, further comprising outputting, by the controller, the possibility of collision with the neighboring vehicle to an autonomous driving unit.
10. The control method of claim 7, wherein the step of configuring of the wide area SVM view comprises the steps of: determining, by the controller, whether there is a direction in which the camera image of the neighboring vehicle is not received; expanding, by the controller, the surround image of the ego vehicle in the direction where the camera image of the neighboring vehicle is not received, when there is the direction in which the camera image of the neighboring vehicle is not received; and configuring, by the controller, the wide area SVM view by synthesizing the surround image of the ego vehicle with the camera image of the neighboring vehicle.
11. The control method of claim 10, wherein in the step of expanding of the surround image of the ego vehicle, the controller is configured to widen a target view direction of the camera module for the direction in which the camera image of the neighboring vehicle is not received, and to acquire the surround image of the ego vehicle.
12. The control method of claim 10, wherein in the step of expanding of the surround image of the ego vehicle, the controller is configured to transmit control information for widening a Field of View (FOV) to the camera module, for the direction in which the camera image of the neighboring vehicle is not received, and then to acquire the surround image of the ego vehicle.
13. The control method of claim 7, wherein the step of generating of the local wide area image map comprises: calculating, by the controller, an approach distance to the neighboring vehicle; recognizing, by the controller, an approaching object; calculating, by the controller, a possible driving space based on the approach distance to the neighboring vehicle, a recognition state of the approaching object and a maximum area of an image inputted from the camera module; and generating, by the controller, the local wide area image map in connection with a navigation system depending on the possible driving space.
14. The control method of claim 13, wherein the step of generating of the local wide area image map further comprises the steps of performing, by the controller, sensing frequency control and camera Field of View (FOV) control for expanding an image of the camera module depending on the possible driving space.
</claims>
</document>
