<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/18,G10L15/22,H04M3/436,H04M3/527
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, KEUNSEOB
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71097906
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC APPARATUS, CONTROLLING METHOD OF ELECTRONIC APPARATUS AND COMPUTER READABLE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic apparatus is provided. The electronic apparatus includes a communicator, and a processor to, in response to a call request received through the communicator, perform a first telephone conversation with a counterpart making the call request through a voice assistant using an artificial intelligence (AI) model which is learned to generate contents of telephone conversations, and provide a user interface for second telephone conversation between a user of the electronic apparatus and the counterpart based on contents of the first telephone conversation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic apparatus comprising: a communicator; at least one memory for storing instructions; and at least one processor configured to execute the stored instructions to at least: in response to a call being received through the communicator, perform a first telephone conversation with a counterpart originating the call through a voice assistant using an artificial intelligence (AI) model which is trained to generate contents of telephone conversations, and based on contents of the first telephone conversation, provide a user interface for a second telephone conversation between a user of the electronic apparatus and the counterpart.
2. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one memory stores a list including one or more telephone numbers, and wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: based on the telephone number of the counterpart being included in the list, provide the user interface for the second telephone conversation, and based on the telephone number of the counterpart not being included in the list, perform the first telephone conversation with the counterpart through the voice assistant.
3. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: based on a purpose of the call obtained based on the contents of the first telephone conversation corresponding to a predetermined purpose, terminate the first telephone conversation performed with the counterpart through the voice assistant, and based on the purpose of the call not corresponding to a predetermined purpose, provide the user interface.
4. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to receive a user command to start or reject the second telephone conversation between the user of the electronic apparatus and the counterpart through the user interface including summary information regarding the first telephone conversation obtained based on contents of the first telephone conversation performed with the counterpart through the voice assistant.
5. The electronic apparatus of claim 4, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to, based on a user command to provide the counterpart with a message being input through the user interface, provide the counterpart with the message through the voice assistant.
6. The electronic apparatus of claim 4, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: obtain the summary information by identifying a word of a predetermined type from a voice received from the counterpart during the first telephone conversation performed with the counterpart through the voice assistant, and add the identified word to a prestored sentence including the type of the identified word.
7. The electronic apparatus of claim 3, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to determine a purpose of the call based on contents of the first telephone conversation performed with the counterpart through the voice assistant, using the AI model which is trained to determine a purpose of the counterpart for the call through contents of telephone conversations with the counterpart.
8. The electronic apparatus of claim 7, wherein the AI model which is trained to determine the purpose of the counterpart for the call through contents of telephone conversations with the counterpart, is trained based on the contents of the first telephone conversation performed with the counterpart through the voice assistant and a purpose of the call which is input by the user after the second telephone conversation between the user of the electronic apparatus and the counterpart is terminated.
9. The electronic apparatus of claim 3, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to determine the purpose of the call based on at least one of: whether the counterpart utters a predetermined word or sentence during the first telephone conversation performed with the counterpart through the voice assistant, whether information on the user uttered by the counterpart is genuine, or context information of the contents of the first telephone conversation.
10. A controlling method of an electronic apparatus, the method comprising: in response to a call being received through the communicator, performing a first telephone conversation with a counterpart originating the call through a voice assistant using an artificial intelligence (AI) model which is trained to generate contents of telephone conversations; and providing a user interface for a second telephone conversation between a user of the electronic apparatus and the counterpart based on contents of the first telephone conversation.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: identifying whether a telephone number of the counterpart is included in a prestored list, wherein the performing of the first telephone conversation with the counterpart originating the call through the voice assistant comprises, based on the telephone number of the counterpart not being included in the prestored list, performing the first telephone conversation with the counterpart originating the call using the voice assistant.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising: based on a purpose of the call obtained based on contents of the first telephone conversation corresponding to a predetermined purpose, terminating the first telephone conversation performed with the counterpart through the voice assistant; wherein the providing of the user interface for telephone conversation between the user and the counterpart comprises, based on the purpose of the call not corresponding to a predetermined purpose, providing the user interface for the second telephone conversation between the user and the counterpart.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising: obtaining summary information on the first telephone conversation performed with the counterpart through the voice assistant based on contents of the first telephone conversation, wherein the providing of the user interface comprises outputting the user interface which includes the obtained summary information and which is for receiving a user command to start or reject the second telephone conversation between the user and the counterpart.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: based on a user command to provide the counterpart with a message being input through the user interface, providing the counterpart with the message through the voice assistant.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the obtaining of the summary information comprises: generating the summary information by identifying a word of a predetermined type from a voice received from the counterpart during the first telephone conversation performed with the counterpart through the voice assistant; and adding the identified word to a prestored sentence including the type of the identified word.
16. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining a purpose of the call based on contents of the first telephone conversation performed with the counterpart through the voice assistant, using the AI model which is trained to determine a purpose of the counterpart for the call through contents of telephone conversations with the counterpart.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: training the AI model, which is trained to determine the purpose of the counterpart for the call through contents of telephone conversations with the counterpart, based on a purpose of the call which is input by the user after the telephone conversation between the user of the electronic apparatus and the counterpart is terminated.
18. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the call is received through the communicator from an external apparatus of the counterpart, and wherein the at least one processor is configured to, in response to an audio stream data corresponding to contents generated by the AI model being received from a server, transmit the received audio stream data to the external apparatus of the counterpart.
19. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the call is received through the communicator from an external apparatus of the counterpart, and wherein the at least one processor is configured to, in response to a stream data corresponding to contents generated by the AI model being received from a server, convert the received stream data to an audio stream data, and transmit the audio stream data to the external apparatus of the counterpart.
20. At least one non-transitory computer readable medium configured to store computer instructions executed by at least one processor of an electronic apparatus to cause the electronic apparatus to perform steps including: in response to a call being received through the communicator, performing a first telephone conversation with a counterpart originating the call through a voice assistant using an artificial intelligence (AI) model which is trained to generate contents of telephone conversations; and providing a user interface for a second telephone conversation between a user of the electronic apparatus and the counterpart based on contents of the first telephone conversation.
</claims>
</document>
