<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
TOFIGHBAKHSH, MOSTAFA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69583249
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EDGE METADATA
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a method includes receiving, by a storage device located at an edge of a network, user device data from a first user device and receiving, by the storage device, metadata associated with an environment of the first user device. The method also includes classifying, by the storage device, the metadata into a category to generate classified metadata and applying, by the storage device, a policy to the classified metadata to generate policy-based classified metadata. The method further includes assigning, by the storage device, one or more tokens to the policy-based classified metadata and assigning, by the storage device, one or more tags to the policy-based classified metadata. The method further includes transmitting, by the storage device, the one or more tags to a second user device in accordance with the one or more tokens.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a storage device located at an edge of a network, user device data from a first user device; receiving, by the storage device, metadata associated with an environment of the first user device; classifying, by the storage device, the metadata into a category to generate classified metadata; applying, by the storage device, a policy to the classified metadata to generate policy-based classified metadata; assigning, by the storage device, one or more tokens to the policy-based classified metadata; assigning, by the storage device, one or more tags to the policy-based classified metadata; and transmitting, by the storage device, the one or more tags to a second user device in accordance with the one or more tokens.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the user device data comprises one of the following: a photo; a video; or a voice memo; the metadata comprises one or more of the following: a location where the user device data was captured; a time when the user device data was captured; and one or more events occurring within a pre-determined distance to the location where the user device data was captured and within a pre-determined time window around the time when the user device data was captured.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein: receiving the metadata comprises receiving the metadata by a machine learning engine of the storage device; and classifying the metadata comprises classifying the metadata into the category to generate the classified metadata by the machine learning engine of the storage device.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein transmitting the one or more tags to the second user device comprises transmitting the one or more tags to the second user device based on instructions from the one or more tokens and the instructions identify when to transmit the one or more tags to the second user device and how to transmit the one or more tags to the second user device.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein: the first user device is different from the second user device; and the policy is selected by a user of the second user device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein: receiving the metadata occurs according to a first time-shift schedule; and transmitting the one or more tags to the second user device occurs according to a second time-shift schedule.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising embedding, by the storage device, the one or more tags in the user device data, wherein the one or more tags comprise one or more of the following: a keyword; an image; or an identifying mark.
8. A system comprising one or more processors and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving, by a storage device located at an edge of a network, user device data from a first user device; receiving, by the storage device, metadata associated with an environment of the first user device; classifying, by the storage device, the metadata into a category to generate classified metadata; applying, by the storage device, a policy to the classified metadata to generate policy-based classified metadata; assigning, by the storage device, one or more tokens to the policy-based classified metadata; assigning, by the storage device, one or more tags to the policy-based classified metadata; and transmitting, by the storage device, the one or more tags to a second user device in accordance with the one or more tokens.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein: the user device data comprises one of the following: a photo; a video; or a voice memo; the metadata comprises one or more of the following: a location where the user device data was captured; a time when the user device data was captured; and one or more events occurring within a pre-determined distance to the location where the user device data was captured and within a pre-determined time window around the time when the user device data was captured.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein a machine learning engine of the storage device: receives the metadata; and classifies the metadata into the category to generate the classified metadata.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more tokens instruct the storage device: to transmit the one or more tags to the second user device; when to transmit the one or more tags to the second user device, and how to transmit the one or more tags to the second user device.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein: the first user device is different from the second user device; and the policy is selected by a user of the second user device.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein: receiving the metadata occurs according to a first time-shift schedule; and transmitting the one or more tags to the second user device occurs according to a second time-shift schedule.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise embedding, by the storage device, the one or more tags in the user device data, wherein the one or more tags comprise one or more of the following: a keyword; an image; or an identifying mark.
15. One or more computer-readable storage media embodying instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: receiving, by a storage device located at an edge of a network, user device data from a first user device; receiving, by the storage device, metadata associated with an environment of the first user device; classifying, by the storage device, the metadata into a category to generate classified metadata; applying, by the storage device, a policy to the classified metadata to generate policy-based classified metadata; assigning, by the storage device, one or more tokens to the policy-based classified metadata; assigning, by the storage device, one or more tags to the policy-based classified metadata; and transmitting, by the storage device, the one or more tags to a second user device in accordance with the one or more tokens.
16. The one or more computer-readable storage media of claim 15, wherein: the user device data comprises one of the following: a photo; a video; or a voice memo; the metadata comprises one or more of the following: a location where the user device data was captured; a time when the user device data was captured; and one or more events occurring within a pre-determined distance to the location where the user device data was captured and within a pre-determined time window around the time when the user device data was captured.
17. The one or more computer-readable storage media of claim 15, wherein a machine learning engine of the storage device: receives the metadata associated with the user device data; and classifies the metadata into the category to generate the classified metadata.
18. The one or more computer-readable storage media of claim 15, wherein the one or more tokens instruct the storage device: to transmit the one or more tags to the second user device; when to transmit the one or more tags to the second user device, and how to transmit the one or more tags to the second user device.
19. The one or more computer-readable storage media of claim 15, wherein: the first user device is different from the second user device; and the policy is selected by a user of the second user device.
20. The one or more computer-readable storage media of claim 15, wherein: receiving the metadata occurs according to a first time-shift schedule; and transmitting the one or more tags to the second user device occurs according to a second time-shift schedule.
</claims>
</document>
