<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/13,H04L9/06,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RELIANCE JIO INFOCOMM
</assignee>

<inventors>
KRISHNASWAMY, DILIP
BHAMRAH, Dipender
BHATNAGAR, Aayush
CHAUHAN, Kanchan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017697
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CONTROL-DATA PLANE PARTITIONING IN VIRTUAL DISTRIBUTED LEDGER NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for control-data plane partitioning in virtual distributed ledger networks. In one embodiment, a processor-implemented method is disclosed, comprising receiving a request for a microservice at a virtual distributed ledger technology node associated with a virtual distributed ledger technology network; identifying operations on user data to be performed related to the request for the microservice; retrieving the user data from a data storage memory external to the virtual distributed ledger technology network; performing the identified operations on the user data; executing the microservice based on performing the identified operations on the user data, to generate user data and control information; storing the generated user data in the data storage memory external to the virtual distributed ledger technology network; and committing the generated control information to a distributed ledger associated with the virtual distributed ledger technology network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for control-data partitioning in a virtual distributed ledger technology platform, comprising: at least one hardware processor; and at least one memory device storing instructions executable by the at least one hardware processor to perform operations comprising: receiving a request for a microservice at a virtual distributed ledger technology node associated with a virtual distributed ledger technology network; identifying operations on user data to be performed related to the request for the microservice; retrieving the user data from a data storage memory external to the virtual distributed ledger technology network; performing the identified operations on the user data; executing the microservice based on performing the identified operations on the user data, to generate user data and control information; storing the generated user data in the data storage memory external to the virtual distributed ledger technology network; and committing the generated control information to a distributed ledger associated with the virtual distributed ledger technology network.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the request for the microservice is a request for compliance processing related to a data privacy regulation.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the generated control information includes a transaction ID, a ledger ID, an identifier of the virtual distributed ledger technology node, and an identifier of the microservice.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the data storage memory external to the virtual distributed ledger technology network is one of: a Hadoop distributed file system; an interplanetary file system file system; and a structure query language database.
5. The system of claim 1, the at least one memory device further storing instructions executable by the at least one hardware processor to perform operations comprising: receiving a request for access to the user data from the data storage memory external to the virtual distributed ledger technology network; executing a data protection compliance microservice after receiving the access request; determining whether the request is approved or rejected based on executing the data protection compliance microservice; and committing the determination of whether the request is approved or rejected to the distributed ledger associated with the virtual distributed ledger technology network.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein determining whether the request is approved or rejected is performed on a system external to the virtual distributed ledger technology network.
7. The system of claim 6, the at least one memory device further storing instructions executable by the at least one hardware processor to perform operations comprising: monitoring rejections of user data access requests that are committed to the distributed ledger associated with the virtual distributed ledger technology network; and identifying a denial-of-service attack on the virtual distributed ledger technology network based on the monitoring.
8. A method for control-data partitioning in a virtual distributed ledger technology platform, comprising: receiving, via at least one hardware processor, a request for a microservice at a virtual distributed ledger technology node associated with a virtual distributed ledger technology network; identifying, via the at least one hardware processor, operations on user data to be performed related to the request for the microservice; retrieving, via the at least one hardware processor, the user data from a data storage memory external to the virtual distributed ledger technology network; performing, via the at least one hardware processor, the identified operations on the user data; executing, via the at least one hardware processor, the microservice based on performing the identified operations on the user data, to generate user data and control information; storing, via the at least one hardware processor, the generated user data in the data storage memory external to the virtual distributed ledger technology network; and committing, via the at least one hardware processor, the generated control information to a distributed ledger associated with the virtual distributed ledger technology network.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the request for the microservice is a request for compliance processing related to a data privacy regulation.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the generated control information includes a transaction ID, a ledger ID, an identifier of the virtual distributed ledger technology node, and an identifier of the microservice.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the data storage memory external to the virtual distributed ledger technology network is one of: a Hadoop distributed file system; an interplanetary file system file system; and a structure query language database.
12. The method of claim 8, the at least one memory device further storing instructions executable by the at least one hardware processor to perform operations comprising: receiving, via the at least one hardware processor, a request for access to the user data from the data storage memory external to the virtual distributed ledger technology network; executing, via the at least one hardware processor, a data protection compliance microservice after receiving the access request; determining, via the at least one hardware processor, whether the request is approved or rejected based on executing the data protection compliance microservice; and committing, via the at least one hardware processor, the determination of whether the request is approved or rejected to the distributed ledger associated with the virtual distributed ledger technology network.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein determining whether the request is approved or rejected is performed on a system external to the virtual distributed ledger technology network.
14. The method of claim 13, the at least one memory device further storing instructions executable by the at least one hardware processor to perform operations comprising: monitoring, via the at least one hardware processor, rejections of user data access requests that are committed to the distributed ledger associated with the virtual distributed ledger technology network; and identifying, via the at least one hardware processor, a denial-of-service attack on the virtual distributed ledger technology network based on the monitoring.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions for control-data partitioning in a virtual distributed ledger technology platform, the instructions executable by at least one hardware processor to perform operations comprising: receiving, via at least one hardware processor, a request for a microservice at a virtual distributed ledger technology node associated with a virtual distributed ledger technology network; identifying, via the at least one hardware processor, operations on user data to be performed related to the request for the microservice; retrieving, via the at least one hardware processor, the user data from a data storage memory external to the virtual distributed ledger technology network; performing, via the at least one hardware processor, the identified operations on the user data; executing, via the at least one hardware processor, the microservice based on performing the identified operations on the user data, to generate user data and control information; storing, via the at least one hardware processor, the generated user data in the data storage memory external to the virtual distributed ledger technology network; and committing, via the at least one hardware processor, the generated control information to a distributed ledger associated with the virtual distributed ledger technology network.
16. The medium of claim 15, wherein the request for the microservice is a request for compliance processing related to a data privacy regulation.
17. The medium of claim 15, wherein the generated control information includes a transaction ID, a ledger ID, an identifier of the virtual distributed ledger technology node, and an identifier of the microservice.
18. The medium of claim 15, the at least one memory device further storing instructions executable by the at least one hardware processor to perform operations comprising: receiving, via the at least one hardware processor, a request for access to the user data from the data storage memory external to the virtual distributed ledger technology network; executing, via the at least one hardware processor, a data protection compliance microservice after receiving the access request; determining, via the at least one hardware processor, whether the request is approved or rejected based on executing the data protection compliance microservice; and committing, via the at least one hardware processor, the determination of whether the request is approved or rejected to the distributed ledger associated with the virtual distributed ledger technology network.
19. The medium of claim 18, wherein determining whether the request is approved or rejected is performed on a system external to the virtual distributed ledger technology network.
20. The medium of claim 19, the at least one memory device further storing instructions executable by the at least one hardware processor to perform operations comprising: monitoring, via the at least one hardware processor, rejections of user data access requests that are committed to the distributed ledger associated with the virtual distributed ledger technology network; and identifying, via the at least one hardware processor, a denial-of-service attack on the virtual distributed ledger technology network based on the monitoring.
</claims>
</document>
