<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61F5/44,A61F5/443,A61F5/445,G06T7/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COLOPLAST
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDERSEN, DAN BOEGSTED
HANSEN, JAIS ASK
HVID, NIELS
SOERENSEN, PETER FLINTHOLM
Daugaard-Jensen, Daniel Gewecke
ANDERSEN, Niels Kristian Mäkinen
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66993152
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TOOLS AND METHODS FOR CUTTING HOLES IN A MEDICAL APPLIANCE
</title>

<abstract>
A method is disclosed performed by an accessory device in connection with an ostomy appliance configured to be placed on a user having a stoma. The method includes capturing one or more images of the user's stoma, processing the images, including: identifying the stoma; and generating indicia representative of a cutting line for the ostomy appliance as a function of the identified stoma, wherein the cutting line defines a hole to be formed on the ostomy appliance. The method further includes providing a visual display including: an appliance representation; and the indicia on the appliance representation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by an accessory device in connection with medical appliance configured to be placed on a user having a stoma, comprising: capturing one or more images of the user's stoma; processing the images, including: identifying the stoma; and generating indicia representative of a cutting line for the medical appliance as a function of the identified stoma, wherein the cutting line defines a hole to be formed on the medical appliance; and providing a visual display including: an appliance representation; and the indicia on the appliance representation.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein: the method further includes storing a graphical representation of the medical appliance; providing the visual display including the appliance representation includes providing a visual display including the graphical representation of the medical appliance; and providing the visual display including the indicia includes providing a visual display including the indicia on the graphical representation of the appliance.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein storing the graphical representation of the medical appliance includes storing a graphical representation of the medical appliance including predefined hole indicia.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein storing the graphical representation of the medical appliance includes storing a graphical presentation of the medical appliance including predefined hole indicia in the form of one or more concentric circles.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein: the method further includes capturing an image of the medical appliance; providing the visual display including the appliance representation includes providing a visual display including at least portions of the captured image of the medical appliance; and providing the visual display including the indicia includes providing a visual display including the indicia on the at least portions of the captured image of the medical appliance.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein capturing the image of the medical appliance includes capturing an image of the medical appliance including predefined hole indicia.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein capturing the image of the medical appliance includes capturing an image of the medical appliance including predefined hole indicia in the form of one or more concentric circles.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein: processing the images includes identifying parameters representative of a perimeter of the stoma; and generating the indicia representative of the cutting line includes generating the indicia as a function of the identified parameters.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein processing the images to identify parameters representative of the perimeter of the stoma includes processing the images to identify parameters including one or more of size and shape of the stoma.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein: the method further includes capturing one or more images of the medical appliance including a cut, wherein the cut is made by a user; the method further includes processing the one or more images of the medical appliance to identify the cut; and providing a visual display includes providing user cut guide indicia, wherein the cut guide indicia can be used as a guide by a user cutting the hole in the medical appliance.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein providing the visual display includes providing visual display of the cut guide indicia superimposed on the appliance representation.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein: capturing images of the medical appliance includes capturing a sequence of images of the medical appliance including a cut, wherein the sequence of images are captured while the cut is being made; and providing a visual display includes providing a visual display including the user cut guide indicia on a visual representation of the sequence of images of the medical appliance including the cut.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the providing a visual display includes providing a visual display of indicia indicating one or more of accuracy of the cut, progress of the cut, and completion of the cut.
14. The method of claim 1, and further including: capturing an image of the medical appliance and a cut hole in the medical appliance; processing image to identifying the cut hole; comparing the cut hole to the cutting line represented by the indicia; and providing a visual display as a function of the comparison.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein providing a visual display as a function of the comparison includes providing a visual display representing accuracy of the cut hole with respect to the cutting line.
16. The method of claim 1, and further including: capturing a sequence of images of the medical appliance including a cut, wherein the sequence of images are captured while the cut is being made; and providing a visual display of a representation of the sequence of images while the cut is being made in the medical appliance.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein: the method further includes processing the sequence of images to identify the cut; and providing the visual display includes providing a display including a superimposed representation of the cut and the indicia representative of the cutting line.
18. The method of claim 1, and further including displaying the indicia on the visual display to guide the user in marking one or more marks on the medical appliance.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein displaying the indicia on the visual display to guide the user in marking one or more marks on the medical appliance includes displaying the indicia on the visual display to guide the user in drawing the one or more marks using a writing instrument.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein displaying the indicia on the visual display to guide the user in drawing the one or more marks includes displaying the indicia on the visual display to guide the user in drawing a closed shape on the medical appliance using the writing instrument.
21. The method of claim 5 wherein capturing an image of the medical appliance comprises capturing an image of an medical appliance including one or more marks on the medical appliance.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the one or more marks were made by a user using the indicia provided by the visual display as a guide.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the one or more marks were made by a user using a writing instrument.
24. The method of claim 1, wherein providing visual display of the indicia includes providing visual display of a continuous indicium.
25. The method of claim 1, wherein providing visual display of the indicia includes providing visual display of discontinuous indicia.
26. The method of claim 1, wherein: the method further includes receiving calibration data representative of the size of the user's stoma; and generating the indicia includes generating the indicia as a function of the calibration data.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein: the method further includes providing a graphical user interface; and receiving the calibration data includes receiving the calibration data through the graphical user interface.
28. The method of claim 26, wherein: receiving the calibration data includes capturing an image of a scale having predetermined dimension indicia with the captured one or more images of the user's stoma; and the method further includes processing the image of the scale to generate the calibration data.
29. The method of claim 1, wherein capturing the one or more images, processing the images and providing the visual display are performed by an accessory device including a camera, image processor and display device.
30. The method of claim 1, and further including transmitting data representative of the indicia to a server device.
31. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the stoma is performed using machine learning.
32. An accessory device including a camera, image processor, display and memory with stored instructions for performing the method of claim 1.
33. Storage media with stored instructions for performing the method of claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
