<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PIXART IMAGING
</assignee>

<inventors>
KO, YI-HSIEN
WU, SUNG-HAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102771
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SMART HOME CONTROL SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a smart home control system including a host, at least one sensor, a plurality of controlled devices and an informing device. The host identifies entering and leaving of family members according to detection results of the at least one sensor, and controls on/off of the controlled devices or informs a specific family member by the informing device to execute agenda according to a member ID of a family member who is identified to enter or leave the house. When identifying that one agendum is unable or forgotten to be executed by the specific family member, the host further rearranges the agendum.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A smart home control system, comprising: a memory configured to record multiple agenda each being recorded using an item code comprising a member bit, a category bit, a temporal bit, a position bit and an assign bit; multiple sensors; and a host, coupled to the memory and the multiple sensors, and configured to give a new item code of a new agendum to be added in the memory when one of the multiple sensors detects the new agendum, give an event code of a leaving event when the leaving event is recognized, compare the event code with recorded multiple item codes to determine a related agendum of the leaving event among the multiple agenda and update the assign bit of the related agendum, and rearrange the related agendum when identifying, according to an external sensor, that the related agendum is not executed.
2. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the host is further configured to compare correlation between the new item code of the new agendum and the recorded multiple item codes of the multiple agenda to determine whether to combine or link the new agendum to one of the multiple agenda.
3. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the event code comprises at least one of an event member bit, an event category bit, an event temporal bit and an event position bit.
4. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 3, wherein one of the multiple sensors is an image sensor, and the host is configured to give the event member bit, the event category bit, the event temporal bit and the event position bit of the event code of the leaving event according to image frames acquired by the image sensor.
5. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 3, wherein one of the multiple sensors is an audio sensor, and the host is configured to give the event member bit, the event category bit, the event temporal bit and the event position bit of the event code of the leaving event according to voice data acquired by the audio sensor.
6. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 3, wherein the host is further configured to give the event member bit, the event category bit, the event temporal bit and the event position bit of the event code of the leaving event according to a daily schedule.
7. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 3, further comprising an electronic calendar, wherein the host is further configured to determine at least one of the event code and the item code according to content of the electronic calendar.
8. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the rearranging is to reassign, reschedule or re-notify the related agendum.
9. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the assign bit is configured to indicate whether each agendum is assigned as a related agendum of one event.
10. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the host is further connected to a network to receive image frames of an image sensor of a mobile/wearable device of an assigned family member associated with the leaving event via the network, and the host is further configured to identify whether the related agendum is executed according to the image frames.
11. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the host is further connected to a network to receive positioning signals of a mobile/wearable device of an assigned family member associated with the leaving event via the network, and the host is further configured to identify whether the related agendum is executed according to a current path of the positioning signals.
12. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the host is further connected to a network to receive a shopping list of an assigned family member associated with the leaving event via the network, and the host is further configured to identify whether the related agendum is executed according to the shopping list.
13. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the host is further connected to a network to receive store service time information via the network, and the host is further configured to identify whether the related agendum is executed according to the store service time information.
14. A smart home control system, comprising: a memory configured to record multiple agenda each being recorded using an item code comprising a member bit, a category bit, a temporal bit, a position bit and an assign bit; multiple sensors; and a host, coupled to the memory and the multiple sensors, and configured to give an event code of a leaving event when the leaving event is recognized according to one of the multiple sensors, compare the event code with recorded multiple item codes to determine a related agendum of the leaving event among the multiple agenda and update the assign bit of the related agendum, and rearrange the related agendum when identifying, according to an external sensor, that the related agendum is not executed.
15. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the rearranging is to reassign, reschedule or re-notify the related agendum.
16. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the assign bit is configured to indicate whether each agendum is assigned as a related agendum of one event.
17. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the host is further connected to a network to receive positioning signals of a mobile/wearable device of an assigned family member associated with the leaving event via the network, and the host is further configured to identify whether the related agendum is executed according to a current path of the positioning signals.
18. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the host is further connected to a network to receive a shopping list of an assigned family member associated with the leaving event via the network, and the host is further configured to identify whether the related agendum is executed according to the shopping list.
19. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the host is further connected to a network to receive store service time information via the network, and the host is further configured to identify whether the related agendum is executed according to the store service time information.
20. The smart home control system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the host is further connected to a network to receive image frames of an image sensor of a mobile/wearable device of an assigned family member associated with the leaving event via the network, and the host is further configured to identify whether the related agendum is executed according to the image frames.
</claims>
</document>
