<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/20,G06Q30/06,G08B21/18,H04W4/024,H04W4/33
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOSHIBA TEC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOTOKI, FUMIKO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72605749
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ROUTE SEARCH APPARATUS
</title>

<abstract>
According to one embodiment, a route search apparatus includes a store search unit and a route generation unit. The store search unit searches for a store matching a purpose by setting the purpose of a user in a commercial facility and a plurality of conditions related to the purpose as input data, and by setting a business type or a business category of each store opening in the commercial facility as reference data. The route generation unit generates a guide route for going around the store within a scheduled stay time by setting the store searched for by the store search unit and the scheduled stay time of the user in the commercial facility as input data, and by setting a layout of the commercial facility and an estimated stay time at the store as reference data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A route search apparatus, comprising: a store search component configured to search for a store matching a purpose by setting the purpose of a user in a commercial facility and a plurality of conditions related to the purpose as input data, and by setting a business type or a business category of each store opening in the commercial facility as reference data; and a route generation component configured to generate a guide route for going around the store within a scheduled stay time by setting the store searched by the store search component and the scheduled stay time of the user in the commercial facility as input data, and by setting a layout of the commercial facility and an estimated stay time at the store as reference data.
2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the route generation component comprises priority order of the purpose as the input data, and generates the guide route for preferentially going around a store having a high priority order.
3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the route generation component comprises a final destination of a route as the reference data, and generates the guide route for going around the store and reaching the final destination within the scheduled stay time.
4. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a collection component configured to collect the purpose in the commercial facility and the plurality of conditions related to the purpose from a terminal used by the user; and an output component configured to output data of the guide route generated by the route generation component to the terminal.
5. The apparatus according to claim 4, further comprising: an inquiry component configured to inquire of the user using the terminal which is a data output destination of the guide route whether or not the purpose is achieved at the timing of exiting a store guided by the guide route or periodically, and to receive a response to the inquiry, wherein as a result of the inquiry, when the response indicating that the purpose is achieved is received, the store search component and the route generation component re-execute a search for a store excluding the store matching the purpose and generation of a guide route for going around the searched store.
6. The apparatus according to claim 4, further comprising: a notification component configured to notify the terminal of an alert when a stay time at a store guided by the guide route exceeds an estimated stay time at the store, with respect to the user using the terminal which is a data output destination of the guide route.
7. The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the terminal is a smart phone.
8. A route search method, comprising: searching for a store matching a purpose by setting the purpose of a user in a commercial facility and a plurality of conditions related to the purpose as input data, and by setting a business type or a business category of each store opening in the commercial facility as reference data; and generating a guide route for going around the store within a scheduled stay time by setting the store searched and the scheduled stay time of the user in the commercial facility as input data, and by setting a layout of the commercial facility and an estimated stay time at the store as reference data.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein guide route generating comprises priority order of the purpose as the input data, further comprising: generating the guide route for preferentially going around a store having a high priority order.
10. The method according to claim 8, wherein guide route generating comprises a final destination of a route as the reference data, further comprising: generating the guide route for going around the store and reaching the final destination within the scheduled stay time.
11. The method according to claim 8, further comprising: collecting the purpose in the commercial facility and the plurality of conditions related to the purpose from a terminal used by the user; and outputting data of the guide route generated to the terminal.
12. The method according to claim 11, further comprising: inquiring of the user using the terminal which is a data output destination of the guide route whether or not the purpose is achieved at the timing of exiting a store guided by the guide route or periodically, and to receive a response to the inquiry; and as a result of the inquiry, when the response indicating that the purpose is achieved is received, re-executing a search for a store excluding the store matching the purpose and generation of a guide route for going around the searched store.
13. The method according to claim 11, further comprising: notifying the terminal of an alert when a stay time at a store guided by the guide route exceeds an estimated stay time at the store, with respect to the user using the terminal which is a data output destination of the guide route.
14. The method according to claim 11, wherein the terminal is a smart phone.
15. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium that stores a computer program to be executed by a computer to perform at least: searching for a store matching a purpose by setting the purpose of a user in a commercial facility and a plurality of conditions related to the purpose as input data, and by setting a business type or a business category of each store opening in the commercial facility as reference data; and generating a guide route for going around the store within a scheduled stay time by setting the store searched and the scheduled stay time of the user in the commercial facility as input data, and by setting a layout of the commercial facility and an estimated stay time at the store as reference data.
16. The non-transitory computer storage medium according to claim 15, wherein guide route generating comprises priority order of the purpose as the input data, the computer further performing: generating the guide route for preferentially going around a store having a high priority order.
17. The non-transitory computer storage medium according to claim 15, wherein guide route generating comprises a final destination of a route as the reference data, the computer further performing: generating the guide route for going around the store and reaching the final destination within the scheduled stay time.
18. The non-transitory computer storage medium according to claim 15, the computer further performing: collecting the purpose in the commercial facility and the plurality of conditions related to the purpose from a terminal used by the user; and outputting data of the guide route generated to the terminal.
19. The non-transitory computer storage medium according to claim 18, the computer further performing: inquiring of the user using the terminal which is a data output destination of the guide route whether or not the purpose is achieved at the timing of exiting a store guided by the guide route or periodically, and to receive a response to the inquiry; and as a result of the inquiry, when the response indicating that the purpose is achieved is received, re-executing a search for a store excluding the store matching the purpose and generation of a guide route for going around the searched store.
20. The non-transitory computer storage medium according to claim 18, the computer further performing: notifying the terminal of an alert when a stay time at a store guided by the guide route exceeds an estimated stay time at the store, with respect to the user using the terminal which is a data output destination of the guide route.
</claims>
</document>
