<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01B63/00,A01C5/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GREAT PLAINS MANUFACTURING
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHOTT, JAMES EDWARD
Arnett, Gregory W.
Ohnsat, Michael
Goodon, Matthew D.
Haggard, Paul Harold
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73047691
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TILLAGE IMPLEMENT WITH VISION SENSORS
</title>

<abstract>
A control system for a tillage implement broadly includes front and rear sensors, a leveling assembly, and a controller. The front sensor is positioned on a front of a central section, wherein the front sensor is configured to obtain height information indicative of a height of the front of the central section above a ground. The rear sensor is positioned on a rear of the central section, wherein the rear sensor is configured to obtain height information indicative of a height of the rear of the central section above the ground. The leveling assembly is configured to adjust a front to rear orientation of the central section. The controller is configured to receive the height information from the front sensor and the height information from the rear sensor, and to provide instructions to the leveling assembly to adjust the front to rear orientation of the central section based on the received height information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A control system for a tillage implement configured to till ground, wherein the tillage implement includes a central section, wherein said control system comprises: a front sensor positioned on a front of the central section, wherein the front sensor is configured to obtain height information indicative of a height of the front of the central section above a ground; a rear sensor positioned on a rear of the central section, wherein the rear sensor is configured to obtain height information indicative of a height of the rear of the central section above the ground; a leveling assembly configured to adjust a front to rear orientation of the central section; and a controller configured to receive the height information from the front sensor and the height information from the rear sensor, and to provide instructions to the leveling assembly to adjust the front to rear orientation of the central section based on the received height information.
2. The control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said front and rear sensors each comprise a time-of-flight camera.
3. The control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said front and rear sensors each comprise at least one of a LiDAR sensor, a radar sensor, an ultrasonic sensor, and a sonar sensor.
4. The control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said leveling assembly comprises a fore-aft leveling linkage.
5. The control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said controller comprises a computing device with one or more processors and memory elements, wherein said controller is configured to compare the height information from the front sensor and the height information from the rear sensor to determine an actual level value of the central section.
6. The control system as claimed in claim 5, wherein said controller is configured to receive a target level value, wherein said controller is configured to compare the actual level value with the target level value, wherein said controller is configured to adjust the front to rear orientation of the central section if the actual level value exceeds the target level value.
7. The control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said tillage implement further includes a left wing section and a right wing section, wherein said tillage implement includes actuators extending from the central section to each wing section to fold the wing sections upward and/or downward.
8. The control system as claimed in claim 7, wherein said actuators are configured to transfer at least a portion of weight of the central section to or from the wing sections to change the operating depth within the ground of ground-engaging tools of the tillage implement.
9. The control system as claimed in claim 7, wherein each wing section includes a sensor configured to obtain height information indicative of a height of the wing section above the ground, wherein said control system is configured to compare the heights of the wing sections with the height of the central section.
10. The control system as claimed in claim 9, wherein said control system is configured to reduce pressure to the actuators when the heights of the wing sections are determined to be less than the height of the central section, wherein said control system is configured to increase pressure to the actuators when the heights of the wing sections are determined to be greater than the height of the central section.
11. The control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said tillage implement further includes an inner left wing section, an inner right wing section, an outer left wing section, and an outer right wing section, wherein said tillage implement includes actuators extending from the inner wing sections to the outer wing sections to fold the outer wing sections upward and/or downward.
12. The control system as claimed in claim 11, wherein each outer wing section includes a sensor configured to obtain height information indicative of a height of the outer wing section above the ground, wherein said control system is configured to compare the heights of the outer wing sections with the height of the central section.
13. The control system as claimed in claim 12, wherein said control system is configured to reduce pressure to the actuators when the heights of the outer wing sections are determined to be greater than the height of the central section, wherein said control system is configured to increase pressure to the actuators when the heights of the outer wing sections are determined to be greater than the height of the central section.
14. The control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said tillage implement includes one or more rearward-facing sensors configured to capture images of the ground as the tillage implement performs tilling operations on the ground, wherein said controller is configured to analyze images obtained from the sensors to determine actual residue coverage of plant material on the soil, wherein said controller is configured to compare the actual residue coverage with a target residue coverage.
15. The control system as claimed in claim 14, wherein if the actual residue coverage is greater than the target residue coverage, the controller is configured to lower a frame of the tillage implement so as to increase an operating depth of ground-engaging tools of the tillage implement, wherein if the actual residue coverage is less than the target residue coverage, the controller is configured to raise a frame of the tillage implement so as to decrease an operating depth of ground-engaging tools of the tillage implement.
16. The control system as claimed in claim 14, wherein if the actual residue coverage is greater than the target residue coverage, the controller is configured to increase a gang angle of ground-engaging tools of the tillage implement, wherein if the actual residue coverage is less than the target residue coverage, the controller is configured to decrease a gang angle of ground-engaging tools of the tillage implement.
17. The control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said control system includes a user interface for receiving target settings for operation of the tillage implement, wherein said target settings include at least one of an operating depth of ground-engaging tools of the tillage implement, residue coverage, and gang angle of ground-engaging tools of the tillage implement.
18. The control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said control system includes a user interface for receiving target settings for operation of the tillage implement, wherein said user interface is configured to generate a map for inputting target settings in association with specific locations and/or areas of a field, wherein said map includes geolocation information received from a GPS system.
19. The control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said control system includes one or more thermal cameras configured to measure a temperature of the ground, wherein said thermal cameras are configured to obtain infrared images to determine at least one of a crop residue level on the ground, a tillage quality of ground after the tillage implement has made a pass over the ground, and a tillage depth after the tillage implement has made a pass over the ground.
20. The control system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said control system includes one or more thermal cameras configured to measure a temperature of the ground, wherein said thermal cameras are positioned on a front of the tillage implement to obtain forward-looking images and/or on a rear of the tillage implement to obtain rearward-looking images.
21. A method of operating a tillage implement configured to till ground, wherein the tillage implement includes a central section, wherein said method comprises the steps of: (a) obtaining, via a front sensor positioned on a front of the central section, height information indicative of a height of the front of the central section above the ground; (b) obtaining, via a rear sensor positioned on a rear of the central section, height information indicative of a height of the rear of the central section above the ground; (c) comparing, via a controller, the height of the front of the central section with the height of the rear of the central section; and (d) providing instructions to a leveling assembly associated with the central section to adjust a front to rear orientation of the central section based on the comparison performed in step (c).
22. The method as claimed in claim 21, comparing, via the controller, the actual level value with the target level value, providing instructions to a leveling assembly associated with the central section to adjust the front to rear orientation of the central section if the actual level value exceeds the target level value.
23. The method as claimed in claim 21, wherein said tillage implement further includes a left wing section, a right wing section, and actuators extending from the central section to each wing section, folding at least one of the wing sections upward and/or downward with the corresponding actuator.
24. The method as claimed in claim 23, said folding step including the step of transferring at least a portion of weight of the central section to or from the wing sections to change the operating depth within the ground of ground-engaging tools of the tillage implement.
25. The method as claimed in claim 23, further comprising the step of: comparing the heights of the wing sections with the height of the central section.
26. The method as claimed in claim 25; reducing pressure to the actuators when the heights of the wing sections are determined to be less than the height of the central section; and increasing pressure to the actuators when the heights of the wing sections are determined to be greater than the height of the central section.
27. The method as claimed in claim 21, wherein said tillage implement further includes an inner left wing section, an inner right wing section, an outer left wing section, an outer right wing section, and actuators extending from the inner wing sections to the outer wing sections; and folding at least one of the outer wing sections upward and/or downward with the corresponding actuator.
28. The method as claimed in claim 27, said folding step including the step of transferring at least a portion of weight of the inner wing sections to or from the outer wing sections to change the operating depth within the ground of ground-engaging tools of the tillage implement.
29. The method as claimed in claim 27, further comprising the step of: comparing the heights of the outer wing sections with the height of the central section.
30. The method as claimed in claim 29; reducing pressure to the actuators when the heights of the outer wing sections are determined to be greater than the height of the central section; and increasing pressure to the actuators when the heights of the outer wing sections are determined to be greater than the height of the central section.
31. The method as claimed in claim 21, wherein said tillage implement includes one or more rearward-facing sensors configured to capture images of the ground as the tillage implement performs tilling operations on the ground; determining actual residue coverage of plant material on the soil based upon images obtained from the sensors; and comparing the actual residue coverage with a target residue coverage.
32. The method as claimed in claim 31; lowering a frame of the tillage implement so as to increase an operating depth of ground-engaging tools of the tillage implement if the actual residue coverage is greater than the target residue coverage; and raising a frame of the tillage implement so as to decrease an operating depth of ground-engaging tools of the tillage implement if the actual residue coverage is less than the target residue coverage.
33. The method as claimed in claim 31; increasing a gang angle of ground-engaging tools of the tillage implement if the actual residue coverage is greater than the target residue coverage; and decreasing a gang angle of ground-engaging tools of the tillage implement if the actual residue coverage is less than the target residue coverage.
34. The method as claimed in claim 21, wherein said control system includes a user interface for receiving target settings for operation of the tillage implement; and generating a map for inputting target settings in association with specific locations and/or areas of a field, wherein said map includes geolocation information received from a GPS system.
35. The method as claimed in claim 21, wherein said control system includes a user interface for receiving target settings for tillage outcomes; having the operator input the target settings via the user interface, wherein the target settings include at least one of target depth, target residue level, target soil levelness, target soil clod size, and target implement level value; having the operator input limits on implement parameters via the user interface, wherein the implement parameters include at least one of implement speed, actual level value, actual depth, and gang angle; and having the operator apply a priority value to each of the target settings, with the control system being configured to prioritize obtaining the highest priority tillage outcome when the control system is unable to maintain all of the tillage outcomes.
</claims>
</document>
