<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W50/00,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LYFT
</assignee>

<inventors>
PRAUN, EMIL
VITELLI, MATT
QURESHI, SAMEER
OMARI, SAMMY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74042937
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Subjective Route Comfort Modeling and Prediction
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a method by a computing system of a vehicle includes determining an environment of the vehicle. The method includes generating, based on the environment, multiple proposed vehicle actions with associated operational data. The method includes determining a comfort level for each proposed vehicle action by processing the environment and operational data using a model for predicting comfort levels of vehicle actions. The model is trained using records of performed vehicle actions. The record for each performed vehicle action includes environment data, operational data, and a perceived passenger comfort level for the performed vehicle action. The method includes selecting a vehicle action from the proposed vehicle actions based on the determined comfort level. The method includes causing the vehicle to perform the selected vehicle action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising, by a computing system of a vehicle: determining an environment of the vehicle; generating, based on the environment, a plurality of proposed vehicle actions with associated operational data; determining a comfort level for each proposed vehicle action by processing the environment and operational data using a model for predicting comfort levels of vehicle actions, wherein the model is trained using records of performed vehicle actions, wherein the record for each performed vehicle action comprises environment data, operational data, and a perceived passenger comfort level for the performed vehicle action; selecting a vehicle action from the plurality of proposed vehicle actions based on the determined comfort level; and causing the vehicle to perform the selected vehicle action.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected vehicle action is selected based further on a ride preference of a passenger of the vehicle.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the ride preference is generated using a model for inferring a ride preference based on an identity of the passenger of the vehicle, wherein the model is trained using the records of performed vehicle actions.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, based on the environment of the vehicle, that a time sensitive vehicle action is required; and wherein the selected vehicle action is selected from the plurality of proposed vehicle actions after bypassing the determination of a comfort level for each of the proposed vehicle actions.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: after the selected vehicle action has been performed by the vehicle, receiving an indication of a perceived comfort level for the selected vehicle action from a passenger of the vehicle.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the records of performed vehicle actions comprise vehicle actions performed by autonomous vehicles, non-autonomous vehicles, or simulated vehicles.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the environment data for a performed vehicle action in the records for the performed vehicle actions comprises: data collected by a sensor associated with a vehicle that performed the vehicle action at a time associated with the vehicle action; a representation of the environment of the vehicle that performed the vehicle action at a time associated with the vehicle action; or communication data transmitted or received by a communication module of the vehicle that performed the vehicle action or by a vehicle management system at a time associated with the vehicle action.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein operational data comprises: a kinematic property of a vehicle; an occupancy of a vehicle; or a communication status of a vehicle.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the model for predicting comfort levels of proposed vehicle actions is retrained by: comparing the determined comfort level for one or more of the vehicle actions to the perceived comfort level of the record of the vehicle action.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting a vehicle action from the plurality of proposed vehicle actions based on the determined comfort level comprises: determining that a first determined comfort level of a first proposed vehicle action is more likely to satisfy an expected comfort level than one or more second determined comfort levels of one or more second proposed vehicle actions.
11. A system comprising: one or more processors of a computing system of a vehicle and one or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media coupled to one or more of the processors, the one or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media comprising instructions operable when executed by one or more of the processors to cause the system to perform operations comprising: determine an environment of the vehicle; generate, based on the environment, a plurality of proposed vehicle actions with associated operational data; determine a comfort level for each proposed vehicle action by processing the environment and operational data using a model for predicting comfort levels of vehicle actions, wherein the model is trained using records of performed vehicle actions, wherein the record for each performed vehicle action comprises environment data, operational data, and a perceived passenger comfort level for the performed vehicle action; select a vehicle action from the plurality of proposed vehicle actions based on the determined comfort level; and cause the vehicle to perform the selected vehicle action.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the selected vehicle action is selected based further on a ride preference of a passenger of the vehicle.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the ride preference is generated using a model for inferring a ride preference based on an identity of the passenger of the vehicle, wherein the model is trained using the records of performed vehicle actions.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions are further operable when executed by one or more of the processors to cause the system to perform operations comprising: determine, based on the environment of the vehicle, that a time sensitive vehicle action is required; and wherein the selected vehicle action is selected from the plurality of proposed vehicle actions after bypassing the determination of a comfort level for each of the proposed vehicle actions.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions are further operable when executed by one or more of the processors to cause the system to perform operations comprising: after the selected vehicle action has been performed by the vehicle, receiving an indication of a perceived comfort level for the selected vehicle action from a passenger of the vehicle.
16. One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to cause one or more processors of a computing system of a vehicle to perform operations comprising: determine an environment of the vehicle; generate, based on the environment, a plurality of proposed vehicle actions with associated operational data; determine a comfort level for each proposed vehicle action by processing the environment and operational data using a model for predicting comfort levels of vehicle actions, wherein the model is trained using records of performed vehicle actions, wherein the record for each performed vehicle action comprises environment data, operational data, and a perceived passenger comfort level for the performed vehicle action; select a vehicle action from the plurality of proposed vehicle actions based on the determined comfort level; and cause the vehicle to perform the selected vehicle action.
17. The media of claim 16, wherein the selected vehicle action is selected based further on a ride preference of a passenger of the vehicle.
18. The media of claim 17, wherein the ride preference is generated using a model for inferring a ride preference based on an identity of the passenger of the vehicle, wherein the model is trained using the records of performed vehicle actions.
19. The media of claim 16, wherein the software is further operable when executed to cause the system to perform operations comprising: determine, based on the environment of the vehicle, that a time sensitive vehicle action is required; and wherein the selected vehicle action is selected from the plurality of proposed vehicle actions after bypassing the determination of a comfort level for each of the proposed vehicle actions.
20. The media of claim 16, wherein the software is further operable when executed to cause the system to perform operations comprising: after the selected vehicle action has been performed by the vehicle, receiving an indication of a perceived comfort level for the selected vehicle action from a passenger of the vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
