<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRASS, MICHAEL
NICKISCH, HANNES
WISSEL, TOBIAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65628795
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTRAVASCULAR NAVIGATION USING DATA-DRIVEN ORIENTATION MAPS
</title>

<abstract>
A system SY for determining a position of an OCT or IVUS catheter CA in a vasculature VA. The system SY includes a map-providing unit MPU, a data-providing unit DPU, and a comparator unit COMP. The map-providing unit is configured to provide a reference map SOM including reference measurement data at each of a plurality of positions P1 . . . k of the OCT or IVUS catheter CA in the vasculature VA. The data-providing unit DPU is configured to provide actual measurement data from an actual position in the vasculature VA. The comparator unit COMP is configured to determine from the plurality of positions P1 . . . k of the OCT or IVUS catheter in the vasculature, a position Pn⊂1 . . . k that corresponds to the actual position in the vasculature, based on a comparison of the actual measurement data and the reference measurement data. The reference measurement data and the actual measurement data are either i) OCT data or ii) IVUS data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. System (SY) for determining a position of an OCT or IVUS catheter (CA) in a vasculature (VA); the system (SY) comprising: a map-providing unit (MPU) configured to provide a reference map (SOM) including reference measurement data at each of a plurality of positions (P1 . . . k) of the OCT or IVUS catheter (CA) in the vasculature (VA); a data-providing unit (DPU) configured to provide actual measurement data from an actual position in the vasculature (VA); a comparator unit (COMP) configured to determine from the plurality of positions (P1 . . . k) of the OCT or IVUS catheter in the vasculature, a position (Pn⊂1 . . . k) that corresponds to the actual position in the vasculature, based on a comparison of the actual measurement data and the reference measurement data; and wherein the reference measurement data and the actual measurement data are either i) OCT data or ii) IVUS data.
2. The system (SY) according to claim 1 further comprising a classification unit (CU); wherein the classification unit (CU) is configured to classify the actual measurement data and the reference measurement data, respectively at the actual position in the vasculature (VA) and at the plurality of positions (P1 . . . k) of the OCT or IVUS catheter (CA) in the vasculature (VA), with a feature set, optionally using a statistical learning algorithm; and wherein the comparator unit (COMP) is configured to determine the position (Pn⊂1 . . . k) that corresponds to the actual position in the vasculature by comparing the feature set of the actual measurement data with the feature set of the reference measurement data.
3. The system (SY) according to claim 2 wherein the feature set includes at least one of the following elements: an intensity distribution of the respective data in a radial direction (R) and/or a rotational direction (θ) with respect to an axis (A-A′) defined by a lumen (LU) of the vasculature (VA), a representation of tissue type in a radial direction (R) and/or a rotational direction (θ) with respect to an axis (A-A′) defined by a lumen (LU) of the vasculature (VA), a representation of plaque type in a radial direction (R) and/or a rotational direction (θ) with respect to an axis (A-A′) defined by a lumen (LU) of the vasculature (VA), an average intensity of the respective data, an entropy of the respective data, a geometrical parameter of the vasculature (VA) such as an average diameter of the vasculature (VA) or a cross-sectional area of the vasculature (VA) or a plaque thickness or a vessel wall thickness.
4. The system (SY) according to claim 3 wherein the feature set includes at least one of the elements: the representation of tissue type in a radial direction (R) and/or a rotational direction (θ) with respect to an axis (A-A′) defined by a lumen (LU) of the vasculature (VA), the representation of plaque type in a radial direction (R) and/or a rotational direction (θ) with respect to an axis (A-A′) defined by a lumen (LU) of the vasculature (VA); and wherein the comparator unit (COMP) is configured to determine the position (Pn⊂1 . . . k) that corresponds to the actual position in the vasculature by comparing at least one of i) a dominant tissue type and/or plaque, ii) a closest tissue type and/or plaque to the lumen (LU), iii) a closest tissue type and/or plaque to the vessel wall (VW), iv) a tissue type and/or plaque having the largest extent in the radial direction (R) and/or in the rotational direction (θ), of the feature set elements.
5. The system (SY) according to claim 1 wherein the actual measurement data and the reference measurement data are both measured in a radial direction (R) with respect to an axis (A-A′) defined by a lumen (LU) of the vasculature (VA) and correspond to a region (RE) of the vasculature (VA) bordered by the lumen (LU) and a vessel wall (VW); wherein the comparator unit (COMP) is configured to determine the position (Pn⊂1 . . . k) that corresponds to the actual position in the vasculature by comparing the feature set of the actual measurement data with the feature set of the reference measurement data within the region (RE).
6. The system (SY) according to any previous claim 1 wherein the actual measurement data and the reference measurement data each correspond to detected OCT or IVUS signals that are measured rotationally (θ) around an axis (A-A′) defined by a lumen (LU) of the vasculature (VA), or wherein the actual measurement data corresponds to detected OCT or IVUS signals that are measured rotationally (θ) around an axis (A-A′) defined by a lumen (LU) of the vasculature (VA) and the reference measurement data is simulated OCT or IVUS data indicative of OCT or IVUS signals measured rotationally (θ) around the axis (A-A′) and which simulated data is derived from MRI image data corresponding to the vasculature (VA).
7. The system (SY) according to claim 6 wherein the actual measurement data and the reference measurement data are both measured in a radial direction (R) with respect to the axis (A-A′) defined by the lumen (LU) of the vasculature (VA) and correspond to a region (RE) of the vasculature bordered by the lumen (LU) and a vessel wall (VW); and wherein the actual measurement data and the reference measurement data corresponding to the bordered region (RE) are both scaled in the radial direction (R) to a common radial range such that the comparator unit determines the position (Pn⊂1 . . . k) that corresponds to the actual position in the vasculature by comparing the actual measurement data and the reference measurement data at corresponding radii within the common radial range.
8. The system (SY) according to claim 1 further comprising an image registration unit (IRU) and an angiogram-providing unit (APU); wherein the angiogram-providing unit (APU) is configured to provide an angiogram based on coronary computed tomography angiogram data corresponding to the vasculature (VA); and wherein the image registration unit (IRU) is configured to register the angiogram with the reference map (SOM).
9. The system (SY) according to claim 1 wherein the reference measurement data has a first angular sampling interval rotationally (θ) around an axis (A-A′) defined by a lumen (LU) of the vasculature (VA), and a first axial sampling interval along the axis (A-A′) defined by the lumen (LU) of the vasculature (VA); and wherein the actual measurement data has a second angular sampling interval rotationally (θ) around the axis (A-A′) defined by the lumen (LU) of the vasculature (VA), and a second axial sampling interval along the axis (A-A′) defined by the lumen (LU) of the vasculature (VA); and wherein the first angular sampling interval and/or the first axial sampling interval is less than the second angular sampling interval and/or the second axial sampling interval, respectively.
10. The system (SY) according to claim 1 wherein the reference measurement data has a first penetration depth in a radial direction (R) with respect to an axis (A-A′) defined by a lumen (LU) of the vasculature (VA); wherein the actual measurement data has a second penetration depth in the radial direction (R); and wherein the second penetration depth is less than first penetration depth.
11. The system (SY) according to claim 1 further comprising a coronary plaque burden computation unit (CPBCU) configured to compute a coronary plaque burden metric based on the actual measurement data or the reference measurement data.
12. The system (SY) according to claim 1 further comprising a display unit (DISP); wherein the display unit (DISP) is configured to display i) at least a portion of the reference map (SOM) including a representation of the reference measurement data at the determined position (Pn⊂1 . . . k) that corresponds to the actual position in the vasculature (VA); and ii) a representation of the actual measurement data at the actual position in the vasculature (VA).
13. The system (SY) according to claim 1 further comprising an OCT or IVUS catheter (CA) configured to provide the reference measurement data to the map-providing unit (MPU) and/or the actual measurement data to the data-providing unit (DPU).
14. Method (MET) of determining a position of an OCT or IVUS catheter (CA) in a vasculature (VA); the method (MET) comprising: providing (PRM) a reference map (SOM) including reference measurement data at each of a plurality of positions (P1 . . . k) of the OCT or IVUS catheter (CA) in the vasculature (VA); providing actual measurement data (PAMD) from an actual position in the vasculature; determining (DET) from the plurality of positions (P1 . . . k) of the OCT or IVUS catheter in the vasculature (VA), a position (Pn⊂1 . . . k) that corresponds to the actual position in the vasculature, based on a comparison of the actual measurement data and the reference measurement data; wherein the reference measurement data and the actual measurement data are either i) OCT data or ii) IVUS data.
15. Computer program product comprising instructions which when executed on a computer cause the computer to carry out the method of claim 14.
</claims>
</document>
