<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B17/318,H04B7/0417,H04B7/08,H04W24/10,H04W28/02,H04W72/08,H04W72/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHIANG, DAVID
YANG JIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72615186
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SELECTING RADIO BEAMS
</title>

<abstract>
A device may obtain, from a user equipment (UE), first information relating to one or more signal strengths measured by the UE. A signal strength of the one or more signal strengths may be associated with a beam of a radio node. The device may identify, based on the first information, a particular signal strength that is associated with a particular beam. The device may select, based on the particular beam, one or more related beams that are associated with the particular beam. The one or more related beams may be associated with the particular beam based on historical data relating to historical signal strengths measured by a plurality of UEs. The device may provide, to the UE, second information that identifies the one or more related beams selected, to permit the UE to communicate using the one or more related beams.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: obtaining, by a device and from a user equipment (UE), first information relating to a particular signal strength associated with a particular beam; selecting, by the device and based on the particular beam, one or more related beams that are associated with the particular beam based on historical data relating to historical signal strengths associated with the particular beam and the one or more related beams; and providing, by the device and to the UE, second information that identifies the one or more related beams selected, to permit the UE to communicate using the one or more related beams.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, based on the historical data, that the particular beam and the one or more related beams are associated with a particular network slice; and wherein selecting the one or more related beams further comprises: selecting the one or more related beams further based on determining that the particular beam and the one or more related beams are associated with the particular network slice.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more related beams are associated with the particular beam based on the historical signal strengths associated with the one or more related beams satisfying a threshold value.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, based on the historical data, an order of priority among the one or more related beams, wherein the historical data, upon which the order of priority is based, includes at least one of: the historical signal strengths associated with the one or more related beams, or quality of service (QoS) data associated with the one or more related beams; and wherein the second information is based on the order of priority.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: monitoring signal strength measurements provided by the UE; determining, based on the monitoring, that a location of the UE changed; selecting, based on determining that the location of the UE changed, one or more other related beams; and providing the UE with updated information relating to the one or more other related beams.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a signal signature based on the particular signal strength of the particular beam; and wherein selecting the one or more related beams further comprises: selecting the one or more related beams further based on the signal signature.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: determining another signal strength of another beam; and wherein determining the signal signature comprises: determining the signal signature further based on the other signal strength of the other beam.
8. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing a set of instructions, the set of instructions comprising: one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a device, cause the device to: obtain, from a user equipment (UE), first information relating to a particular signal strength associated with a particular beam; select, based on the particular beam, one or more related beams that are associated with the particular beam based on historical data relating to historical signal strengths associated with the particular beam and the one or more related beams; and provide, to the UE, second information that identifies the one or more related beams selected, to permit the UE to communicate using the one or more related beams.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the one or more instructions further cause the device to: determine, based on the historical data, that the particular beam and the one or more related beams are associated with a particular quality of service (QoS) flow; and wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the device to select the one or more related beams, cause the device to: select the one or more related beams further based on determining that the particular beam and the one or more related beams are associated with the particular QoS flow.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the one or more related beams are associated with the particular beam based on the historical signal strengths associated with the one or more related beams satisfying a threshold value.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the one or more instructions further cause the device to: determine, based on the historical data, an order of priority among the one or more related beams, wherein the historical data, upon which the order of priority is based, includes at least one of: the historical signal strengths associated with the one or more related beams, or quality of service (QoS) data associated with the one or more related beams; and wherein the second information is based on the order of priority.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the one or more instructions further cause the device to: monitor signal strength measurements provided by the UE; determine, based on the monitoring, that a location of the UE changed; select, based on determining that the location of the UE changed, one or more other related beams; and provide the UE with updated information relating to the one or more other related beams.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the one or more instructions further cause the device to: determine a signal signature based on the particular signal strength of the particular beam; and wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the device to select the one or more related beams, cause the device to: select the one or more related beams further based on the signal signature.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the one or more instructions further cause the device to: determine another signal strength of another beam; and wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the device to determine the signal signature, cause the device to: determine the signal signature further based on the other signal strength of the other beam.
15. A device, comprising: one or more processors configured to: obtain, from a user equipment (UE), first information relating to a particular signal strength associated with a particular beam; select, based on the particular beam, one or more related beams that are associated with the particular beam based on historical data relating to historical signal strengths associated with the particular beam and the one or more related beams, wherein the one or more related beams are associated with the particular beam based on the historical signal strengths associated with the one or more related beams satisfying a threshold value; and provide, to the UE, second information that identifies the one or more related beams selected, to permit the UE to communicate using the one or more related beams.
16. The device of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine, based on the historical data, that the particular beam and the one or more related beams are associated with a particular network slice; and wherein the one or more processors, when selecting the one or more related beams, are configured to: select the one or more related beams further based on determining that the particular beam and the one or more related beams are associated with the particular network slice.
17. The device of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine, based on the historical data, that the particular beam and the one or more related beams are associated with a particular quality of service (QoS) flow; and wherein the one or more processors, when selecting the one or more related beams, are configured to: select the one or more related beams further based on determining that the particular beam and the one or more related beams are associated with the particular QoS flow.
18. The device of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine, based on the historical data, an order of priority among the one or more related beams, wherein the historical data, upon which the order of priority is based, includes at least one of: the historical signal strengths associated with the one or more related beams, or quality of service (QoS) data associated with the one or more related beams; and wherein the second information is based on the order of priority.
19. The device of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: monitor signal strength measurements provided by the UE; determine, based on the monitoring, that a location of the UE changed; select, based on determining that the location of the UE changed, one or more other related beams; and provide the UE with updated information relating to the one or more other related beams.
20. The device of claim 15, wherein the one or more related beams are associated with the particular beam based on the historical signal strengths associated with the one or more related beams satisfying a threshold value.
</claims>
</document>
