<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DURGANI, LAVINA
M, ANAGHA
MUTALIKDESAI, MANDAR
SRIVASTAVA, SHEETAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70727954
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
UNSUPERVISED SENTIMENT ANALYSIS FOR MULTIPLE SUBJECTS OF INTEREST USING DEPENDENCY PARSING AND LINGUISTIC HEURISTICS
</title>

<abstract>
Sentiment analysis is targeted toward a specific subject of interest (or selected subjects) in a passage of natural language text. A dependency tree is generated for the passage, and subtrees are found that have sentiment polarities which contribute to the subject(s) of interest. A targeted sentiment score is computed for the subject(s) of interest based on sentiment expressed in those subtrees. Consecutively occurring nouns in the passage are collapsed into a noun phrase, as are possessives with ensuing nouns. The sentiment expressed in a given subtree can be modified using various linguistic heuristics. For example, sentiment polarity which is modified by a negation word may be inverted, sentiment polarity which is modified by an intensifying word may be increased, or sentiment polarity which is modified by a diluting word may be decreased.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining targeted sentiment comprising: receiving a natural language statement in computer-readable form, by executing first instructions in a computer system; identifying a plurality of entities in the natural language statement, by executing second instructions in the computer system; selecting a set of at least two of the entities as subjects of interest, by executing third instructions in the computer system; generating a dependency tree for the natural language statement, by executing fourth instructions in the computer system; finding multiple subtrees in the dependency tree wherein each subtree contributes to a sentiment polarity of a respective one of the subjects of interest, by executing fifth instructions in the computer system; computing separate sentiment scores for the subjects of interest based on sentiments expressed in the respective subtrees, by executing sixth instructions in the computer system; and combining the separate sentiment scores to yield a targeted sentiment score for the set of entities, by executing seventh instructions in the computer system.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the set includes all of the entities identified in the natural language statement.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein said combining averages the separate sentiment scores.
4. The method of claim 1 further comprising: collapsing consecutively occurring nouns in the natural language statement into a first single noun phrase in the dependency tree; and collapsing a possessive word with an ensuing noun in the natural language statement into a second single noun phrase in the dependency tree.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising modifying sentiment expressed in at least one of the subtrees using a linguistic heuristic.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein the linguistic heuristic includes one of: inverting sentiment polarity in the subtree which is modified by a negation word; increasing sentiment polarity in the subtree which is modified by an intensifying word; and decreasing sentiment polarity in the subtree which is modified by a diluting word.
7. The method of claim 1 further comprising normalizing the targeted sentiment score based on a distribution of sentiment values associated with words in a sentiment lexicon used in determining the sentiment polarities.
8. A computer system comprising: one or more processors which process program instructions; a memory device connected to said one or more processors; and program instructions residing in said memory device for determining targeted sentiment by receiving a natural language statement in computer-readable form, identifying a plurality of entities in the natural language statement, selecting a set of at least two of the entities as subjects of interest, generating a dependency tree for the natural language statement, finding multiple subtrees in the dependency tree wherein each subtree contributes to a sentiment polarity of a respective one of the subjects of interest, computing separate sentiment scores for the subjects of interest based on sentiments expressed in the respective subtrees, and combining the separate sentiment scores to yield a targeted sentiment score for the set of entities.
9. The computer system of claim 8 wherein the set includes all of the entities identified in the natural language statement.
10. The computer system of claim 8 wherein the combining averages the separate sentiment scores.
11. The computer system of claim 8 wherein said program instructions further collapse consecutively occurring nouns in the natural language statement into a first single noun phrase in the dependency tree, and collapse a possessive word with an ensuing noun in the natural language statement into a second single noun phrase in the dependency tree.
12. The computer system of claim 8 wherein said program instructions further modify sentiment expressed in at least one of the subtrees using a linguistic heuristic.
13. The computer system of claim 12 wherein the linguistic heuristic includes one of: inverting sentiment polarity in the subtree which is modified by a negation word; increasing sentiment polarity in the subtree which is modified by an intensifying word; and decreasing sentiment polarity in the subtree which is modified by a diluting word.
14. The computer system of claim 8 wherein said program instructions further normalize the targeted sentiment score based on a distribution of sentiment values associated with words in a sentiment lexicon used in determining the sentiment polarity.
15. A computer program product comprising: a computer readable storage medium; and program instructions residing in said storage medium for determining targeted sentiment by receiving a natural language statement in computer-readable form, identifying a plurality of entities in the natural language statement, selecting a set of at least two of the entities as subjects of interest, generating a dependency tree for the natural language statement, finding multiple subtrees in the dependency tree wherein each subtree contributes to a sentiment polarity of a respective one of the subjects of interest, computing separate sentiment scores for the subjects of interest based on sentiments expressed in the respective subtrees, and combining the separate sentiment scores to yield a targeted sentiment score for the set of entities.
16. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the set includes all of the entities identified in the natural language statement.
17. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the combining averages the separate sentiment scores.
18. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein said program instructions further collapse consecutively occurring nouns in the natural language statement into a first single noun phrase in the dependency tree, and collapse a possessive word with an ensuing noun in the natural language statement into a second single noun phrase in the dependency tree.
19. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein said program instructions further modify sentiment expressed in at least one of the subtrees using a linguistic heuristic.
20. The computer program product of claim 19 wherein the linguistic heuristic includes one of: inverting sentiment polarity in the subtree which is modified by a negation word; increasing sentiment polarity in the subtree which is modified by an intensifying word; and decreasing sentiment polarity in the subtree which is modified by a diluting word.
</claims>
</document>
