<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A23L5/10,H05B6/64,H05B6/66,H05B6/68
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOJI
</assignee>

<inventors>
DARSHAN, LIOR
ELBOIM, RAM
IBRAGIMOV, ZALMAN
SHECHTER, DAVID
ZICKEL, BEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62563215
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CENTRALIZED REMOTE CONTROL OF HEATERS
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a method for monitoring and control of heating food portions in heaters, each installed in communication with a respective client computer in communication with a same server, the method performed by the server comprising: receiving from the client computers, RF signatures, each RF signature being based on measured reflections of RF signals transmitted within a cavity of one of the heaters containing therein a food portion, analyzing the RF signatures, determining for each heater based on the analysis of the RF signatures, at least one heating instruction to operate each heater to heat the food portion therein; and transmitting to each of the client computers, the respective at least one determined heating instruction comprising instructions to generate RF signals and transmit the RF signals to the food portions using heating antennas of the heater.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for monitoring and control of heating food portions in a plurality of heaters, each installed in communication with a respective client computer, wherein the client computers are in communication with a same server, the method comprising: receiving at the server, from the client computers, RF signatures, each RF signature being based on measured reflections of a plurality of RF signals transmitted within a cavity of one of the heaters, the cavity containing therein a food portion to be heated by the respective heater; analyzing, by the server, the RF signatures received from the client computers; determining for each heater, by the server and based on the analysis of the RF signatures, at least one heating instruction to operate each heater to heat the food portion therein; and transmitting, from the server to each of the client computers, the respective at least one heating instruction determined for the respective heater.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the heaters are dielectric heaters.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein each heating instruction comprises an instruction to generate a plurality of RF signals and transmit the plurality of RF signals to the food portions using heating antennas of the dielectric heater.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein each of the plurality of RF signals has a power of at least 100 W.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the analysis comprises comparing the RF signature with RF signatures received by the server from a plurality of client computers, each in communication with a respective heater.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining comprises selecting the at least one heating instruction from a plurality of heating instructions.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing is performed by a member selected from the group consisting of: a classifier trained on RF signatures obtained by a plurality of client computers, each in communication with a respective heater; a regression function modeling RF signatures obtained by a plurality of client computers, each in communication with a respective heater; matching the received RF signature to an entry in a look-up table storing RF signatures obtained by the plurality of client computers; and associating the received RF signature to one of the RF signatures stored in a database according to statistical similarity, wherein the RF signatures stored in the database are obtained by the plurality of client computers.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining comprises determining at least one heating instruction to operate the heater to at least one of: reduce relative total energy consumption of heating the food portion during heating; and improve heating effectiveness of the food portion during heating in comparison to a locally stored standard heating program executed by the client computer without server input.
9. The method of claim 3, wherein the instructions to generate a plurality of RF signals include instructions to generate RF signals that differ from one another in at least one of frequency and phase.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing comprises: applying a classifier to the RF signature to classify the food portion into a heating category from a plurality of heating categories each associated with a corresponding heating instruction; and selecting a heating instruction for the food portion based on the classification.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: controlling by the server the heating of the food portions, by: iterating the receiving and the analyzing, and wherein determining comprises receiving data indicative of results of measurements of reflections of RF signals; adjusting the at least one heating instruction according to results of the analyzing to generate an adjusted heating instruction; and transmitting the adjusted heating instruction to the client computer to operate the heater according to the adjusted heating instruction.
12. The method of claim 6, further comprising: controlling by the server the heating of the food portions, by: iterating the receiving and the analyzing, and wherein determining comprises receiving data indicative of results of measurements of reflections of the RF; adjusting the heating instruction according to results of the analyzing to generate an adjusted heating pattern; and transmitting the adjusted heating pattern to the client computer to operate the heater to generate RF signals according to the adjusted heating pattern.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the heating instructions adjusted according to a heating target.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the controlling is performed in real-time.
15. The method of claim 12, further comprising transmitting instructions to generate RF signals according to the adjusted heating pattern for a predefined period of time, and repeating the controlling upon expiration of the predefined period of time.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the controlling is repeatedly performed during a cooking process of the food portion.
17. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving at the server, from each of the client computers, an indication of whether a desired heating effect is reached; associating with each of the received RF signature data, at least one heating instruction sent from the server to operate the respective heater, and an associated indication of whether the desired heating effect is reached using the at least one heating instruction; and training a classifier that performs the determining of the at least one heating instruction according to the indication of desired heating effects.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising training the classifier using RF signature data as input into the classifier and corresponding applied heating instructions as output of the classifier.
19. The method of claim 1, further comprising: aggregating, at the server, RF signature data and an indication of a current state of the food portion received from at least some of the client computers; and training a classifier to perform the analysis using the RF signature data representing input into the classifier and the current state of the food portion as a categorization representing output by the classifier.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the current state of the food comprises a type of food.
21. The method of claim 1, further comprising: aggregating, at the server, test results of a self-test executed by at least one of the client computers to test the respective heater; grouping the test results according to types of heaters; and analyzing the test results according to the grouped types of heaters to determine service requirements.
22. The method of claim 11, further comprising: aggregating adjusted heating patterns and respective measured reflections of the applied heating instructions, at the server, from the plurality of client computers associated with respective heaters, to update a trained classifier that adjusts at least one heating instruction based on received measured reflections.
23. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a hardware-type of each heater; receiving RF signature data from at least one of each heater; and determining the at least one Heating instruction for each heater according to the hardware-type of the heater and the received RF signature data aggregated from the respective heater.
24. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, at the server, from each of a plurality of client computers, a dish indication, indicative of a dish being heated by a respective heater in communication with a respective client computer, by a respective user using the respective heater; creating a user profile for each user based on a set of dish indications; and associating different user profiles into common profiles according to dish indications that are common across the set of dish indications of the user profiles.
25. The method of claim 24, further comprising: receiving, at the server, an indication that a new dis is heated by a certain user of a certain user profile; identifying the common profile associated with the certain user; accessing the common profile to obtain another at least one dish; and transmitting, for presentation to the client computer, the obtained another at least one dish.
26. The method of claim 24, further comprising: determining at least one cooking parameter for the dish indication; including the at least one cooking parameter determined for the dish indication in the user profile; and wherein associating comprises associating different user profiles with common profiles according to cooking parameters of dish indications that are common between user profiles.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the at least one cooking parameter includes one or more members selected from the group consisting of: a total cooking time of the dish indication, a cooking temperature of the dish indication, a time of day when the dish indication is cooked, a day of the week when the dish indication is cooked, a holiday when the dish indication is cooked, a date when the dish indication is cooked, and a geographic location where the dish indication is cooked.
28. The method of claim 1, wherein the heater includes or is in communication with a non-RF heating element; wherein determining further comprises: determining at least one non-RF heating instruction for application by the non-RF heating element, in association with the determined RF heating instruction.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the non-RF heating instructions includes instructions to use convection heating.
30. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing an initialization by: receiving, at the server, data indicative of the RF signals whose reflections were used to measure the RF signature, the RF signals including data for calculating a phase difference between at least two of the RF signals; calculating the phase difference; and transmitting instructions to adjust the RF signals such that the calculated phase difference approaches a target phase value.
31. The method of claim 1, further comprising, before the act of receiving RF signature data: receiving, at the server, from the client computer, an initialization signature indicative of the presence of a food portion ready to be heated in the heater in communication with the client computer; transmitting, from the server to the client computer, instructions to: measure reflections of a plurality of RF signals transmitted within a cavity of the heater, the cavity containing therein the food portion; send to the server an RF signature based on the reflections measured; and associating the RF signature with the received initialization signature.
32. A computer-implemented method for monitoring and control of heating food portions in a heater installed in communication with a client computer, wherein the client computer is in communication with a server, the method comprising: transmitting, to the server, from the client computer, an RF signature based on measured reflections of a plurality of RF signals transmitted within a cavity of the heater, the cavity containing therein the food portion; receiving, from the server, at least one heating instruction determined by the server based on analysis of the RF signature, to operate the heater to heat the food portion, the at least one heating instruction comprising instructions to generate a plurality of RF signals and transmit the plurality of RF signals to a cavity of the heater; and controlling the heater according to the received at least one heating instruction.
33. The method of claim 32, further comprising: detecting, by the client computer, a failure to receive an instruction message from the server defining the heating instruction for an upcoming period of time; and continuing, by the client computer, to control the heater to heat according to the previously received heating instruction.
34. The method of claim 33, further comprising: monitoring, by the client computer, for reception of the instruction message for a predefined time requirement; and upon expiration of the predefined time requirement, applying a heating instruction according to instructions locally stored on a storage medium of the client computer of the heater.
35. A server for monitoring and control of heating food portions in a plurality of heaters, each installed in communication with a respective client computer, each food portion contained within a cavity of the respective heater, the server comprising: a communication interface for communicating using a network with the plurality of client computers; a program store storing code; and a processor coupled to the communication interface and the program store for implementing the stored code, the code comprising: instructions to: receive RF signatures from each of the client computers, each RF signature being based on measured reflections of a plurality of RF signals transmitted within each respective cavity; analyze each RF signature; determine, based on the analysis of the RF signatures, at least one heating instruction to operate the respective heater to heat the respective food portion; and transmit each determined at least one heating instruction to the respective client computer, wherein the determined at least one heating instruction comprises instructions to generate a plurality of RF signals and transmit the plurality of RF signals to a cavity of the respective heater.
36. The server of claim 35, wherein the determined at least one heating instruction comprises instructions to generate a plurality of RF signals and transmit the plurality of RF signals to a cavity of the respective heater.
37. A computer-implemented method for monitoring and control of heating food portions in a heater installed in communication with a client computer, wherein the client computer is in communication with a server, the method comprising: receiving at the server, from the client computer, an RF signature based on measured reflections of a plurality of RF signals transmitted within a cavity of the heater, the cavity containing therein the food portion; analyzing, by the server, the RF signature received from the client computer; determining by the server, based on the analysis of the RF signatures, at least one heating instruction to operate the heater to heat the food portion; and transmitting, from the server to the client computer, the determined at least one heating instruction.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein the determined at least one heating instruction comprising instructions to generate a plurality of RF signals and transmit the plurality of RF signals to the food portions using heating antennas of the heater.
39. A method according to claim 37, wherein the heater is one of a plurality heaters, each installed in communication with a respective client computer, and all the client computers are in communication with the server.
</claims>
</document>
