<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/93,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IRON MOUNTAIN
</assignee>

<inventors>
Chaudhry, Anwar
Zeng, Zhihong
Gandhi, Utpal N.
Williams, Adam Darius
Chandrasekhar, Rajesh
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73551286
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CLOUD CONTENT-BASED DOCUMENT CLUSTERING AND CLASSIFICATION INTEGRATION
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method, includes accessing, by a processor, a set of asset documents. The method also includes performing, by the processor, feature extraction on text of each document of the set of asset documents using a feature extraction module to generate a set of features, where each feature of the set of features represents a document of the set of asset documents. The method also includes generating, by the processor, a set of lower-dimensional features from the set of features using a singular value decomposition module. The method also includes generating, by the processor, a set of clusters from the set of lower-dimensional features using a clustering module. The method also includes training, by the processor, a machine-learning model of a classification microservice using the set of clusters generated from the clustering module.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: accessing, by a processor, a set of asset documents; performing, by the processor, feature extraction on text of each document of the set of asset documents using a feature extraction module to generate a set of features, wherein each feature of the set of features represents a document of the set of asset documents; generating, by the processor, a set of lower-dimensional features from the set of features using a singular value decomposition module; generating, by the processor, a set of clusters from the set of lower-dimensional features using a clustering module; and training, by the processor, a machine-learning model of a classification microservice using the set of clusters generated from the clustering module.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein performing the feature extraction, generating the set of lower-dimensional features, generating the set of clusters, and training the machine-learning model are each performed by cloud-based microservices coordinated by a scalable Kubernetes system.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: accessing, by the processor, an additional document added to the set of asset documents; applying, by the processor, the additional document to the machine-learning model of the classification microservice; and assigning, by the processor, a document class to the additional document.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of clusters represents a set of document classes, and wherein the classification microservice is configured to assign a document class of the set of document classes to additional documents added to the set of asset documents.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the feature extraction module comprises a bidirectional encoder representation of transformers (BERT) based feature extraction tool or a bag-of-words feature extraction tool, and wherein the clustering module is configured to perform a density-based spatial clustering operation.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the density-based spatial clustering operation assigns each document of the set of asset documents as a core sample document within a cluster of the set of clusters, as a border sample document within the cluster of the set of clusters, or as an outlier document.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: performing, by the processor, a grid search to adjust adjustable parameters of the feature extraction module, the singular value decomposition module, the clustering module, or a combination thereof.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, by the processor, a machine-encoded text representation of each document of the set of asset documents using an optical character recognition module, wherein the feature extraction is performed on the machine-encoded text representation of each document of the set of asset documents.
9. A computing system, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more memory devices including instructions that are executable by the one or more processors for causing the one or more processors to: access a set of asset documents; perform feature extraction on text of each document of the set of asset documents using a feature extraction module to generate a set of features, wherein each feature of the set of features represents a document of the set of asset documents; generate a set of lower-dimensional features from the set of features using a singular value decomposition module; generate a set of clusters from the set of lower-dimensional features using a clustering module; and train a machine-learning model of a classification microservice using the set of clusters generated from the clustering module.
10. The computing system of claim 9, wherein the instructions are further executable by the one or more processors for causing the one or more processors to: access an additional document added to the set of asset documents; apply the additional document to the machine-learning model of the classification microservice; and assign a document class to the additional document.
11. The computing system of claim 9, wherein the set of clusters represent a set of document classes, and wherein the classification microservice is configured to assign a document class of the set of document classes to additional documents added to the set of asset documents.
12. The computing system of claim 9, wherein the instructions are further executable by the one or more processors for causing the one or more processors to: generate a machine-encoded text representation of each document of the set of asset documents using an optical character recognition module, wherein the feature extraction is performed on the machine-encoded text representation of each document of the set of asset documents.
13. The computing system of claim 9, wherein the feature extraction module comprises a bidirectional encoder representation of transformers (BERT) based feature extraction tool or a bag-of-words feature extraction tool.
14. The computing system of claim 9, wherein the clustering module is configured to perform a density-based spatial clustering operation.
15. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the density-based spatial clustering operation assigns each document of the set of asset documents as a core sample document within a cluster of the set of clusters, as a border sample document within the cluster of the set of clusters, or as an outlier document.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising computer-executable instructions to cause a computer to: access a set of asset documents; perform feature extraction on text of each document of the set of asset documents using a feature extraction module to generate a set of features, wherein each feature of the set of features represents a document of the set of asset documents; generate a set of lower-dimensional features from the set of features using a singular value decomposition module; generate a set of clusters from the set of lower-dimensional features using a clustering module; and train a machine-learning model of a classification microservice using the set of clusters generated from the clustering module.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, comprising further computer-executable instructions to cause the computer to: access an additional document added to the set of asset documents; apply the additional document to the machine-learning model of the classification microservice; and assign a document class to the additional document.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, comprising further computer-executable instructions to cause the computer to: generate a machine-encoded text representation of each document of the set of asset documents using an optical character recognition module, wherein the feature extraction is performed on the machine-encoded text representation of each document of the set of asset documents.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the set of clusters represent a set of document classes, and wherein the classification microservice is configured to assign a document class of the set of document classes to additional documents added to the set of asset documents.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, comprising further computer-executable instructions to cause the computer to: perform a grid search to adjust adjustable parameters of the feature extraction module, the singular value decomposition module, the clustering module, or a combination thereof.
</claims>
</document>
