<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B34/10,A61B90/00,A61C7/00,A61C9/00,G02B27/00,G02B27/01,G06F3/01,G06K9/00,G06T19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIGN TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARRIS, PHILLIP THOMAS
GRECHISHNIKOV, LEONID VYACHESLAVOVICH
OZEROV, SERGEI
LAPSHIN, ANTON
LI, YINGJIE
SLYNKO, YURY
MALASHKIN, EVGENIY
NEKRASOV, ANDREY SERGEEVICH
CARRIER, MAURICE K.
POKOTILOV, PAVEL
ORLOVA, ANNA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60943153
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
KIOSK FOR VIEWING OF DENTAL TREATMENT OUTCOMES
</title>

<abstract>
A kiosk comprises an AR display, an image capture device that generates image data of a face of a viewer of the AR display, and a processing device. The processing device receives the image data of the face; processes the image data to identify a position of a dental arch in the image data; determines a treatment outcome for the dental arch; generates a post-treatment image of the dental arch that shows the treatment outcome; generates updated image data comprising a superimposition of the post-treatment image of the dental arch over the received image data depicting the face of the viewer; and outputs the updated image data to the AR display, wherein the post-treatment image of the dental arch is superimposed over the dental arch in the received image data such that the post-treatment image is visible in the AR display rather than a true depiction of the dental arch.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A kiosk comprising: an augmented reality (AR) display; an image capture device, the image capture device to generate image data of a face of a viewer of the AR display; and a processing device, the processing device to: receive the image data of the face of the viewer of the AR display; process the image data to identify a position of a dental arch in the image data; determine a treatment outcome for the dental arch; generate a post-treatment image of the dental arch that shows the treatment outcome; generate updated image data comprising a superimposition of the post-treatment image of the dental arch over the received image data depicting the face of the viewer, wherein the post-treatment image of the dental arch is positioned over the received image data using the identified position of the dental arch; and output the updated image data to the AR display, wherein the post-treatment image of the dental arch is superimposed over the dental arch in the received image data such that the post-treatment image is visible in the AR display rather than a true depiction of the dental arch, wherein a remainder of the face from the received image data that is not covered by the post-treatment image of the dental arch is visible in the AR display.
2. The kiosk of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further to process the image data to determine the position of the dental arch relative to a position of the AR display.
3. The kiosk of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further to: determine a position of a mouth of the viewer in the received image data and a position of the dental arch in the mouth; track the position of the dental arch, a shape of the mouth, and exposed portions of the dental arch; and update the post-treatment image of the dental arch in response to an update to at least one of the position of the dental arch, the shape of the mouth or the exposed portions of the dental arch.
4. The kiosk of claim 3, wherein tracking the position of the dental arch comprises: determining an offset vector from the AR display to the position of the dental arch; identifying a change in the position of the AR display; and updating the position of the dental arch in response to the change in the position of the AR display.
5. The kiosk of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further to: capture a live video feed of the face; and superimpose the treatment outcome over a view of the dental arch in each frame of the live video feed.
6. The kiosk of claim 1, wherein determining the treatment outcome for the dental arch comprises: generating a virtual three-dimensional model of the dental arch that shows the dental arch after application of orthodontic treatment; determining a perspective of the AR display relative to the position of the dental arch; determining a portion of the virtual three-dimensional model that would be visible from the perspective of the AR display; and generating a two dimensional perspective of the portion of the virtual three-dimensional model that would be visible from the perspective of the AR display.
7. The kiosk of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further to: determine a position of a mouth in the received image data and the position of the dental arch in the mouth, wherein the dental arch comprises markers placed on one or more teeth of the dental arch, and wherein identifying the dental arch in the mouth comprises identifying locations of the markers in the image data.
8. The kiosk of claim 1, wherein the kiosk acts as a smart mirror that outputs an augmented smile of the viewer.
9. The kiosk of claim 1, wherein determining the treatment outcome comprises selecting a generic idealized dental arch.
10. The kiosk of claim 1, wherein the treatment outcome comprises an idealized treatment outcome.
11. The kiosk of claim 1, further comprising: outputting to the AR display contact information of one or more dental practitioners to perform orthodontic treatment to achieve the treatment outcome.
12. The kiosk of claim 1, wherein the treatment outcome comprises a preferred dental outcome preferred by a dental practitioner or by the viewer.
13. The kiosk of claim 1, wherein the post-treatment image of the dental arch comprises a visual overlay comprising an indication of the treatment outcome at the determined position of the dental arch.
14. The kiosk of claim 1, wherein the AR display is further to display the updated image data.
15. The kiosk of claim 1, wherein the updated image data is output to the AR display while the viewer views their face in the AR display.
16. The kiosk of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further to output an interface for planning treatment outcomes to the AR display.
17. The kiosk of claim 1, wherein the updated image data comprises a three-dimensional rendering of the dental arch.
18. A method comprising: generating image data of a face of a viewer of an augmented reality (AR) display; receiving the image data of the face of the viewer of the AR display; processing the image data to identify a position of a dental arch in the image data; determining a treatment outcome for the dental arch; generating a post-treatment image of the dental arch that shows the treatment outcome; generating updated image data comprising a superimposition of the post-treatment image of the dental arch over the received image data depicting the face of the viewer, wherein the post-treatment image of the dental arch is positioned over the received image data using the identified position of the dental arch; and outputting the updated image data to the AR display, wherein the post-treatment image of the dental arch is superimposed over the dental arch in the received image data such that the post-treatment image is visible in the AR display rather than a true depiction of the dental arch, wherein a remainder of the face from the received image data that is not covered by the post-treatment image of the dental arch is visible in the AR display.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: determining a position of a mouth of the viewer in the received image data and a position of the dental arch in the mouth; tracking the position of the dental arch, a shape of the mouth, and exposed portions of the dental arch; and updating the post-treatment image of the dental arch in response to an update to at least one of the position of the dental arch, the shape of the mouth or the exposed portions of the dental arch.
20. The method of claim 18, further comprising: processing the image data to determine the position of the dental arch relative to a position of the AR display.
</claims>
</document>
