<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04,H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
JOHNSON, ERIC
ZHANG JIANZHONG
CHANDRASEKHAR, VIKRAM
PARK, YONGSEOK
FORD, RUSSELL
Jin, Shan
Madadi, Pranav
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73551616
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ROOT CAUSE ANALYSIS AND AUTOMATION USING MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
A method for discovering and diagnosing network anomalies. The method includes receiving key performance indicator (KPI) data and alarm data. The method includes extracting features based on samples obtained by discretizing the KPI data and the alarm data. The method includes generating a set of rules based on the features. The method includes identifying a sample as a normal sample or an anomaly sample. In response to identifying the sample as the anomaly sample, the method includes identifying a first rule that corresponds to the sample, wherein the first rule indicates symptoms and root causes of an anomaly included in the sample. The method further includes applying the root causes to derive a root cause explanation of the anomaly and performing a corrective action to resolve the anomaly based on the first rule.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for discovering and diagnosing network anomalies, the apparatus comprising: a communication interface configured to receive key performance indicator (KPI) data and alarm data; and a processor operably connected to the communication interface, the processor is configured to: extract features based on samples obtained by discretizing the KPI data and the alarm data, generate a set of rules based on the features, wherein a portion of the samples that satisfy the rules correspond to anomalies, identify a sample as a normal sample or an anomaly sample, in response to identifying the sample as the anomaly sample, identify one or more rules that are satisfied by the sample, derive KPIs that are linked to symptoms and root causes for the one or more rules that are satisfied by the sample identified as the anomaly sample, derive a root cause explanation for an anomaly included in the sample identified as the anomaly sample based on KPIs that are linked to the symptoms and root causes of the anomaly; and perform a corrective action to resolve the anomaly based on the one or more rules.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive, via the communication interface, an indication of an alarm from an eNB; in response to receiving the indication, identify a set of the KPI data from the eNB that is received between a start of the alarm until the alarm is cleared; determine whether a key quality indicator (KQI) anomaly is associated with the alarm; and when the KQI is associated with the alarm, identify the set of the KPI data and the alarm as a root cause for the KQI anomaly.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein to generate the set of rules, the processor is configured to: identify a set of the KPI data that occurs between a predefined time before an alarm starts and the alarm is cleared; and generate a new rule that identifies the anomaly based on the alarm data associated with the alarm and the set of the KPI data.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the apparatus further comprises a memory configured to store historical KPI data and historical alarm data; and to generate the set of rules, the processor is further configured to: generate a new rule from a set of the historical KPI data and an alarm of the historical alarm data, derive confidence and hit ratio for the new rule wherein the confidence is based on a fraction of samples satisfying the new rule that are identified as anomaly samples and the hit ratio is based on a fraction of the anomaly samples that satisfy the new rule, compare the confidence and the hit ratio of the new rule to a confidence threshold and a hit ratio threshold, respectively, and store the new rule when the confidence associated with the new rule exceeds the confidence threshold and the hit ratio associated with the new rule exceeds the hit ratio threshold.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: to discretize the KPI data the processor is configured to: select a set of features based on the KPI data, derive additional features based on synthetic KPI features derived from the set of features based on the KPI data, and discretize the set of features comprising the KPI data and the synthetic KPI features; and the processor is further configured to: combine the discretized KPI data with the alarm data, and generate a KPI hierarchical tree based on a portion of the set of rules, wherein the portion of the set of rules in the KPI hierarchical tree provide a root cause explanation for a first anomaly.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the processor is further configured to: identify geographic locations that share traffic patterns as a function of time; set a window size of a first geographic area, of the geographic locations based on a rate of change to the traffic patterns of the first geographic area; and identify a threshold for the KPI discretization of the first geographic area based on the window size.
7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein to generate the KPI hierarchy tree the processor is further configured to: assign scores to the KPI data that are associated with a KQI anomaly, based on a hit ratio associated with the KPI data, respectively, wherein a first KPI that is associated with a first hit ratio is assigned a first score and a second KPI is associated with a second hit ratio is assigned a second score, the first score and the first hit ratio are higher than the second score and the second hit ratio; iteratively link the KPI data, in descending order, based on the assigned scores to generate one or more chained rules; identify a confidence score associated with a portion of the set of rules that correspond to the KPI data that is associated with a KQI anomaly; discard one or more of the of the portion of the set of rules, based on whether the confidence score of a respective rule is below a threshold and whether a confidence score of a chained rule, of the one or more chained rules, is below a threshold; and for each chained rule that is not discarded, identify a root cause explanation, wherein the first KPI indicates a symptom for the first anomaly and the second KPI indicates a reason for the first anomaly.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a display, wherein the processor is further configured to display, on the display at least one: the one or more rules that corresponds to the anomaly, one or more of the KPI data that is linked to the symptoms and root causes of the to the anomaly, the root cause explanation for the anomaly, and the corrective action to resolve the anomaly.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein to identify the one or more rules, the processor is configured to: identify a portion of the set of rules, with confidence scores above a threshold, that are associated with the anomaly; separate the portion of the set of rules into a basic rule group and a non-basic rule group; include a directed edge between rule pairs within the non-basic rule group, when a confidence scores of the rule pairs are above a threshold, wherein the directed edge indicates a relationship between the rule pair a rule within the basic rule group; and identify a first set of the KPI data that is linked to a first rule of the one or more rules within the basic rule group as including no incoming edges as a root cause and a second set of the KPI data that is linked to any remaining rules of the one or more rules as the symptoms.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: organize historical data input multiple groups based on time stamps; identify parameters associated with the multiple groups; and predict a future anomaly based on the parameters.
11. A method for discovering and diagnosing network anomalies, the method comprising: receiving key performance indicator (KPI) data and alarm data; extracting features based on samples obtained by discretizing the KPI data and the alarm data; generating a set of rules based on the features, wherein a portion of the samples that satisfy the rules correspond to anomalies; identifying a sample as a normal sample or an anomaly sample; in response to identifying the sample as the anomaly sample, identifying one or more rules that are satisfied by the sample; deriving KPIs that are linked to symptoms and root causes for the one or more rules that are satisfied by the sample identified as the anomaly sample; deriving a root cause explanation for an anomaly included in the sample identified as the anomaly sample based on KPIs that are linked to the symptoms and root causes of the anomaly; and performing a corrective action to resolve the anomaly based on the one or more rules.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving an indication of an alarm from an eNB; in response to receiving the indication, identifying a set of the KPI data from the eNB that is received between a start of the alarm until the alarm is cleared; determining whether a key quality indicator (KQI) anomaly is associated with the alarm; and when the KQI is associated with the alarm, identifying the set of the KPI data and the alarm as a root cause for the KQI anomaly.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying a set of the KPI data that occurs between a predefined time before an alarm starts and the alarm is cleared; and generating a new rule that identifies the anomaly based on the alarm data associated with the alarm and the set of the KPI data.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: storing historical KPI data and historical alarm data; generating a new rule from a set of the historical KPI data and an alarm of the historical alarm data; deriving confidence and hit ratio for the new rule wherein the confidence is based on a fraction of samples satisfying the new rule that are identified as anomaly samples and the hit ratio is based on a fraction of the anomaly samples that satisfy the new rule; comparing the confidence and the hit ratio of the new rule to a confidence threshold and a hit ratio threshold, respectively; and storing the new rule when the confidence associated with the new rule exceeds the confidence threshold and the hit ratio associated with the new rule exceeds the hit ratio threshold.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein: discretizing the KPI data comprises: selecting a set of features based on the KPI data, deriving additional features based on synthetic KPI features derived from the set of features based on the KPI data, and discretizing the set of features comprising the KPI data and the synthetic KPI features; and the method further comprises: combining the discretized KPI data with the alarm data; and generating a KPI hierarchical tree based on a portion of the set of rules, wherein the portion of the set of rules in the KPI hierarchical tree provide a root cause explanation for a first anomaly.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: identifying geographic locations that share traffic patterns as a function of time; setting a window size of a first geographic area, of the geographic locations based on a rate of change to the traffic patterns of the first geographic area; and identifying a threshold for the KPI discretization of the first geographic area based on the window size.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein generating the KPI hierarchy tree comprises: assigning scores to the KPI data that are associated with a KQI anomaly, based on a hit ratio associated with the KPI data, respectively, wherein a first KPI that is associated with a first hit ratio is assigned a first score and a second KPI is associated with a second hit ratio is assigned a second score, the first score and the first hit ratio are higher than the second score and the second hit ratio; iteratively linking the KPI data, in descending order, based on the assigned scores to generate one or more chained rules; identify a confidence score associated with a portion of the set of rules that correspond to the KPI data that is associated with a KQI anomaly; discarding one or more of the of the portion of the set of rules, based on whether the confidence score of a respective rule is below a threshold and whether a confidence score of a chained rule, of the one or more chained rules, is below a threshold; and for each chained rule that is not discarded, identifying a root cause explanation, wherein the first KPI indicates a symptom for the first anomaly and the second KPI indicates a reason for the first anomaly.
18. The method of claim 11, further comprising displaying, on a display at least one: the one or more rules that corresponds to the anomaly, one or more of the KPI data that is linked to the symptoms and root causes of the to the anomaly, the root cause explanation for the anomaly, and the corrective action to resolve the anomaly.
19. The method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying a portion of the set of rules, with confidence scores above a threshold, that are associated with the anomaly; separating the portion of the set of rules into a basic rule group and a non-basic rule group; including a directed edge between rule pairs within the non-basic rule group, when a confidence scores of the rule pairs are above a threshold, wherein the directed edge indicates a relationship between the rule pair a rule within the basic rule group; and identifying a first set of the KPI data that is linked to a first rule of the one or more rules within the basic rule group as including no incoming edges as a root cause and a second set of the KPI data that is linked to any remaining rules of the one or more rules as the symptoms.
20. The method of claim 11, further comprising: organize historical data input multiple groups based on time stamps; identify parameters associated with the multiple groups; and predict a future anomaly based on the parameters.
</claims>
</document>
