<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F12/12,G06F21/74,G06F3/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Arm Technology (China) Co. LTD
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAI, Chi-Chang
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74190363
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ALLOCATION POLICY FOR SHARED RESOURCE ACCESSIBLE IN BOTH SECURE AND LESS SECURE DOMAINS
</title>

<abstract>
Processing circuitry may support a secure domain and a less secure domain, where secure information associated with a secure software process is prevented from being accessed by a less secure software process in the less secure domain. Shared resource is accessible to both secure and less secure software processes. In response to detection of an anomaly condition, allocation policy for the shared resource is switched from a shared allocation policy to a secure-biased allocation policy. The secure-biased allocation policy has a stronger bias of resource allocation to secure software processes than the shared allocation policy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: processing circuitry having a plurality of domains of operation including a secure domain and a less secure domain; access control circuitry to prevent secure information associated with a secure software process processed in the secure domain from being accessed by a less secure software process processed in the less secure domain; shared resource accessible to both secure software processes processed in the secure domain and less secure software processes processed in the less secure domain; and resource allocation control circuitry to control allocation of the shared resource according to an allocation policy; in which: in response to detection of an anomaly condition, the resource allocation control circuitry is configured to switch the allocation policy from a shared allocation policy to a secure-biased allocation policy; and compared to the shared allocation policy, the secure-biased allocation policy has a stronger bias of resource allocation to secure software processes in preference to resource allocation to less secure software processes.
2. The apparatus according to claim 1, in which the anomaly condition comprises a condition indicative of starvation of shared resource for the secure software processes due to demand for shared resource by the less secure software processes.
3. The apparatus according to claim 1, in which the shared resource comprises a cache; and the anomaly condition is dependent on a cache replacement rate exceeding a threshold, where the cache replacement rate is indicative of a frequency with which information stored in the cache is evicted to make way for other information.
4. The apparatus according to claim 1, in which the anomaly condition is dependent on a latency metric exceeding a threshold, where the latency metric is indicative of latency of servicing requests for access to the shared resource.
5. The apparatus according to claim 1, in which when anomaly-triggered switching of allocation policy is enabled, the resource allocation control circuitry is configured to switch the allocation policy from the shared allocation policy to the secure-biased allocation policy in response to detection of the anomaly condition; and when anomaly-triggered switching of allocation policy is disabled, the resource allocation control circuitry is configured to use the shared allocation policy regardless of whether the anomaly condition occurs.
6. The apparatus according to claim 5, in which the resource allocation control circuitry is configured to enable the anomaly-triggered switching of allocation policy in response to a predetermined transition of domain and/or operating mode of the processing circuitry.
7. The apparatus according to claim 6, in which the predetermined transition comprises a transition from the secure domain to the less secure domain.
8. The apparatus according to claim 6, in which within a given domain, the processing circuitry is configured to perform data processing in one of a plurality of operating modes; and the predetermined transition comprises a transition from a first mode/domain combination to a second mode/domain combination.
9. The apparatus according to claim 8, in which the plurality of operating modes comprise a handler mode for exception processing and a thread mode for background processing; the first mode/domain combination comprises processing in the secure domain and the handler mode; and the second mode/domain combination comprises processing in the less secure domain and one of the handler mode and the thread mode.
10. The apparatus according to claim 6, in which in response to another transition of the domain and/or operating mode of the processing circuitry, or elapse of a predetermined period since the predetermined transition of domain and/or operating mode, the resource allocation control circuitry is configured to disable the anomaly-triggered switching of allocation policy.
11. The apparatus according to claim 1, in which the resource allocation control circuitry is configured to detect the anomaly condition based on a comparison between an anomaly metric and a threshold; and the threshold is variable depending on at least one of: a current domain or current operating mode of the processing circuitry; and a history of previous transitions of domain and/or operating mode of the processing circuitry.
12. The apparatus according to claim 1, in which in response to detection that the anomaly condition no longer arises, the resource allocation control circuitry is configured to switch the allocation policy from the secure-biased allocation policy to the shared allocation policy.
13. The apparatus according to claim 1, in which, in the shared allocation policy, control of allocation of resource is independent of whether resource is requested by a secure software process or a less secure software process.
14. The apparatus according to claim 1, in which, in the secure-biased allocation policy, the resource allocation control circuitry is configured to reserve a portion of the shared resource for secure software processes, or restrict a maximum fraction of the shared resource that is allowed to be allocated to less secure software processes.
15. The apparatus according to claim 1, in which in the secure-biased allocation policy, the resource allocation control circuitry is configured to prevent resource being reallocated from a secure software process to a less secure software process.
16. The apparatus according to claim 1, in which the shared resource comprises a cache, and in the secure-biased allocation policy, the resource allocation control circuitry is configured to prevent information being allocated to the cache in response to a request issued by a less secure software process processed in the less secure domain.
17. The apparatus according to claim 1, in which the shared resource comprises a cache, and in the secure-biased allocation policy, information allocated to the cache by a secure software process is protected against eviction for a longer period than information allocated to the cache by a less secure software process.
18. The apparatus according to claim 1, in which the shared resource comprises one of: cache storage capacity; storage capacity in a buffer; and bandwidth on a bus.
19. An apparatus comprising: means for processing, having a plurality of domains of operation including a secure domain and a less secure domain; means for preventing secure information associated with a secure software process processed in the secure domain from being accessed by a less secure software process processed in the less secure domain; means for providing shared resource, accessible to both secure software processes processed in the secure domain and less secure software processes processed in the less secure domain; and means for controlling allocation of the shared resource according to an allocation policy; in which: in response to detection of an anomaly condition, the means for controlling is configured to switch the allocation policy from a shared allocation policy to a secure-biased allocation policy; and compared to the shared allocation policy, the secure-biased allocation policy has a stronger bias of resource allocation to secure software processes in preference to resource allocation to less secure software processes.
20. A data processing method for an apparatus comprising processing circuitry having a plurality of domains of operation including a secure domain and a less secure domain, where secure information associated with a secure software process processed in the secure domain is prevented from being accessed by a less secure software process processed in the less secure domain; the method comprising: performing processing using shared resource, where the shared resource is accessible to both secure software processes processed in the secure domain and less secure software processes processed in the less secure domain; and controlling allocation of the shared resource according to an allocation policy; in which: in response to detection of an anomaly condition, the allocation policy is switched from a shared allocation policy to a secure-biased allocation policy; and compared to the shared allocation policy, the secure-biased allocation policy has a stronger bias of resource allocation to secure software processes in preference to resource allocation to less secure software processes.
</claims>
</document>
