<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60Q1/46,B60Q3/70,B60Q5/00,B60Q9/00,B60T7/22,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAIDU USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHU, FAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72513935
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED WARNING SYSTEM TO DETECT A FRONT VEHICLE SLIPS BACKWARDS
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a system perceives an environment surrounding an ADV including a vehicle in front of the ADV. The system determines whether the vehicle in front is slipping backwards based on the perception. The system determines whether the vehicle in front is situated on a road with a slope based on map information. The system determines whether a tail light or a brake light of the vehicle in front is turned on based on the perception. If it is determined that the vehicle in front is situated on a sloped road, is slipping backwards, and the tail light or the brake light is not turned on, the system calculates a time to impact or a distance to impact based on the distance and speed of the vehicle in front.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for operating an autonomous driving vehicle (ADV), the method comprising: perceiving a driving environment surrounding an ADV based on sensor data obtained from a plurality of sensors, including identifying a vehicle in front of the ADV; determining whether the vehicle in front is moving backwardly based on the perception; determining whether a tail light or a brake light of the vehicle in front is turned on based on the perception; and in response to determining that the vehicle is moving backwardly and the tail light or the brake light of the vehicle is not turned on, generating a warning signal to warn a driver of the vehicle in front of the ADV.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the vehicle in the front of the ADV is moving backwardly comprises: determining a distance to the vehicle in front at two different points in time; and determining whether the distance to the vehicle in front is decreasing for the two different points in time.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining whether the vehicle in front is situated on a road with a slope based on map information, wherein the warning signal is generated in response to determining that the vehicle is on a sloped road.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: calculating a time to impact based on the distance and speed of the vehicle in front; and determining whether the time to impact is less than a predetermined time threshold, wherein the warning signal is generated if the impact time is less than the predetermined time threshold.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the warning signal includes a short horn sound signal, a continuous horn sound signal, or a flash of a headlamp of the ADV to warn passengers of the vehicle in front of the ADV.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the continuous horn sound signal is increasing in volume as a distance to impact decreases.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the warning signal includes a visual and/or audio cue, or a shake of a steering wheel of the ADV to warn passengers of the ADV.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining whether it is safe to release a brake of the ADV; and releasing the brake of the ADV prior to the impact, if it is determined to be safe to release the brake of the ADV.
9. A non-transitory machine-readable medium having instructions stored therein, which when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: perceiving a driving environment surrounding an ADV based on sensor data obtained from a plurality of sensors, including identifying a vehicle in front of the ADV; determining whether the vehicle in front is moving backwardly based on the perception; determining whether a tail light or a brake light of the vehicle in front is turned on based on the perception; and in response to determining that the vehicle is moving backwardly and the tail light or the brake light of the vehicle is not turned on, generating a warning signal to warn a driver of the vehicle in front of the ADV.
10. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein determining whether the vehicle in the front of the ADV is moving backwardly comprises: determining a distance to the vehicle in front at two different points in time; and determining whether the distance to the vehicle in front is decreasing for the two different points in time.
11. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise determining whether the vehicle in front is situated on a road with a slope based on map information, wherein the warning signal is generated in response to determining that the vehicle is on a sloped road.
12. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: calculating a time to impact based on the distance and speed of the vehicle in front; and determining whether the time to impact is less than a predetermined time threshold, wherein the warning signal is generated if the impact time is less than the predetermined time threshold.
13. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the warning signal includes a short horn sound signal, a continuous horn sound signal, or a flash of a headlamp of the ADV to warn passengers of the vehicle in front of the ADV.
14. The machine-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the continuous horn sound signal is increasing in volume as a distance to impact decreases.
15. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the warning signal includes a visual and/or audio cue, or a shake of a steering wheel of the ADV to warn passengers of the ADV.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: determining whether it is safe to release a brake of the ADV; and releasing the brake of the ADV prior to the impact, if it is determined to be safe to release the brake of the ADV.
17. A data processing system, comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor to store instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations including perceiving a driving environment surrounding an ADV based on sensor data obtained from a plurality of sensors, including identifying a vehicle in front of the ADV; determining whether the vehicle in front is moving backwardly based on the perception; determining whether a tail light or a brake light of the vehicle in front is turned on based on the perception; and in response to determining that the vehicle is moving backwardly and the tail light or the brake light of the vehicle is not turned on, generating a warning signal to warn a driver of the vehicle in front of the ADV.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein determining whether the vehicle in the front of the ADV is moving backwardly comprises: determining a distance to the vehicle in front at two different points in time; and determining whether the distance to the vehicle in front is decreasing for the two different points in time.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise determining whether the vehicle in front is situated on a road with a slope based on map information, wherein the warning signal is generated in response to determining that the vehicle is on a sloped road.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: calculating a time to impact based on the distance and speed of the vehicle in front; and determining whether the time to impact is less than a predetermined time threshold, wherein the warning signal is generated if the impact time is less than the predetermined time threshold.
</claims>
</document>
