<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60R16/037,B60W40/08,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GM GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY OPERATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KRAJEWSKI PAUL E.
BAI FAN
TSIMHONI, OMER
YU, BO
BORDO, ROBERT A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69886686
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS THAT IDENTIFY VEHICLE OCCUPANT
</title>

<abstract>
A method and apparatus that identify an occupant of a vehicle are provided. The method includes: receiving information from a mobile device of a person approaching a vehicle, inputting feature information, corresponding to the received information and vehicle sensor information, into at least one support vector machine model and storing at least one score output by the at least one support vector machine model, identifying the person approaching the vehicle based on the at least one score, determining a seating location of the identified person approaching the vehicle based on the feature information, and adjusting settings of the vehicle based on a profile of the identified person approaching the vehicle and the seating location.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method that identifies an occupant of a vehicle, the method comprising: receiving information from a mobile device of a person approaching a vehicle; inputting feature information, corresponding to the received information and vehicle sensor information, into at least one support vector machine model and storing at least one score output by the at least one support vector machine model; identifying the person approaching the vehicle based on the at least one score; determining a seating location of the identified person approaching the vehicle based on the feature information; and adjusting settings of the vehicle based on a profile of the identified person approaching the vehicle and the seating location.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving information from the mobile device of the person approaching the vehicle comprises receiving one or more from among Wi-Fi ranging information, Bluetooth radio signal strength and angle of arrival information, pedometer information, accelerometer information, pose information, and gyroscopic information.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the vehicle sensor information comprises one or more from among key fob presence information, key fob position information, door status information, seat sensor information, and camera-based occupancy information.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the inputting the received feature information comprises inputting the received feature information into a plurality of support vector machine models and storing a plurality of scores output by the plurality of support vector machine models.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the identifying the person approaching the vehicle based on the at least one score comprises identifying the person based on the plurality of scores.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the storing the plurality of scores output by the plurality of support vector machine models comprises storing the plurality of scores in a matrix, wherein each of the plurality scores in the matrix is associated with a support vector machine model, profile information and a mobile device.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one support vector machine model comprises information associating a mobile device to profile information of a person.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the support vector machine model comprises at least one of a regression support vector machine model and a classification support vector machine model.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting adjustments to the settings of the vehicle made by the identified person; and updating the profile of the identified person with the adjustments to the settings of the vehicle.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising training the at least one support vector machine model corresponding to the identified person based on the feature information.
11. An apparatus that identifies an occupant of a vehicle, the apparatus comprising: at least one memory comprising computer executable instructions; and at least one processor configured to read and execute the computer executable instructions, the computer executable instructions causing the at least one processor to: receive information from a mobile device of a person approaching a vehicle; input feature information, corresponding to the received information and vehicle sensor information, into at least one support vector machine model and store at least one score output by the at least one support vector machine model; identify the person approaching the vehicle based on the at least one score; determine a seating location of the identified person approaching the vehicle based on the feature information; and adjust settings of the vehicle based on a profile of the identified person approaching the vehicle and the seating location.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the computer executable instructions cause the at least one processor to receive information including one or more from among Wi-Fi ranging information, Bluetooth radio signal strength and angle of arrival information, pedometer information, accelerometer information, pose information, and gyroscopic information.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the vehicle sensor information comprises one or more from among key fob presence information, key fob position information, door status information, seat sensor information, and camera-based occupancy information.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the computer executable instructions cause the at least one processor to input the received feature information into a plurality of support vector machine models and store a plurality of scores output by the plurality of support vector machine models.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the computer executable instructions cause the at least one processor to identify the person approaching the vehicle based on the plurality of scores.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the computer executable instructions cause the at least one processor to store the plurality of scores in a matrix, and wherein each of the plurality scores in the matrix is associated with a support vector machine model, profile information and a mobile device.
17. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the at least one support vector machine model comprises information correlating to a mobile device to profile information of a person.
18. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the support vector machine model comprises at least one of a regression support vector machine model and a classification support vector machine model.
19. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the computer executable instructions cause the at least one processor to: detect adjustments to the settings of the vehicle made by the identified person; and update the profile of the identified person with the adjustments to the settings of the vehicle.
20. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the computer executable instructions cause the at least one processor to train the at least one support vector machine model corresponding to the identified person based on the feature information.
</claims>
</document>
