<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/18,G06N3/08,G06N3/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
YAN, ZHENYU
HE, JUN
PANI, ABHISHEK
DAI, WUYANG
Zhang, Lei
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72749274
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
UTILIZING A GENETIC ALGORITHM IN APPLYING OBJECTIVE FUNCTIONS TO DETERMINE DISTRIBUTION TIMES FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to systems, methods, and non-transitory computer readable media for generating a target distribution schedule for providing electronic communications based on predicted behavior rates by utilizing a genetic algorithm and one or more objective functions. For example, the disclosed systems can generate predicted behavior rates by training and utilizing one or more behavior prediction models. Based on the predicted behavior rates, the disclosed systems can further utilize a genetic algorithm to apply objective functions to generate one or more candidate distribution schedules. In accordance with the genetic algorithm, the disclosed systems can select a target distribution schedule for a particular user/client device. The disclosed systems can thus provide one or more electronic communications to individual users based on respective target distribution schedules.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. In a digital medium environment for distributing electronic communications across computer networks, a computer-implemented method of determining electronic message send times for individual recipient devices, the computer-implemented method comprising: determining, for a user over a target time horizon and based on previously distributed electronic communications, a predicted open rate, a predicted click rate, and a predicted fatigue rate; a step for generating a distribution schedule utilizing a genetic algorithm, the predicted open rate, the predicted click rate, and the predicted fatigue rate; and providing an electronic communication to the user based on the distribution schedule.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising receiving input from an administrator device to set the target time horizon and an objective function utilized by the genetic algorithm.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein an objective function utilized by the genetic algorithm comprises at least one of: a rate maximization objective function, an open rate decay objective function, or a threshold interaction probability objective function.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the predicted open rate, the predicted click rate, and the predicted fatigue rate comprises utilizing an open behavior model, a click behavior model, and a fatigue behavior model, wherein the open behavior model, the click behavior model, and the fatigue behavior model are each trained based on historical user behavior in relation to the previously distributed electronic communications.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the distribution schedule comprises a plurality of individual distribution times for providing the electronic communication and further comprises, for each of the plurality of individual distribution times, an indication of whether to provide the electronic communication.
6. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause a computer device to: determine, for a user over a target time horizon and based on previously distributed electronic communications, a predicted open rate, a predicted click rate, and a predicted fatigue rate; utilize a genetic algorithm to generate, based on the predicted open rate, the predicted click rate, and the predicted fatigue rate, a distribution schedule for providing electronic communications to the user by: determining, utilizing an objective function in relation to the predicted open rate, the predicted click rate, and the predicted fatigue rate, a set of candidate distribution schedules; generating a modified set of candidate distribution schedules by adding at least one of a crossover distribution schedule or a mutation distribution schedule to the set of candidate distribution schedules; and selecting a target distribution schedule from the modified set of candidate distribution schedules based on the objective function; and provide an electronic communication to the user based on the target distribution schedule.
7. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 6, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer device to generate the crossover distribution schedule by combining two candidate distribution schedules from the set of candidate distribution schedules.
8. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 6, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer device to generate the mutation distribution schedule by modifying a candidate distribution schedule from the set of candidate distribution schedules.
9. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 6, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer device to utilize a fitness function comprising the objective function to select the set of candidate distribution schedules from among a plurality of candidate distribution schedules in accordance with one or more distribution parameters.
10. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 6, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer device to select the target distribution schedule by repeatedly applying the genetic algorithm to generate modified sets of candidate distribution schedules until one or more stop criteria are satisfied.
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 6, wherein the objective function comprises one of a rate maximization objective function, an open rate decay objective function, or a threshold interaction probability objective function.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer device to receive an input from an administrator device to select the objective function from among the rate maximization objective function, the open rate decay objective function, or the threshold interaction probability objective function.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein: the rate maximization objective function weights the predicted open rate and the predicted click rate to improve the weighted predicted open rate and the weighted predicted click rate over the target time horizon in accordance the predicted fatigue rate; the open rate decay objective function applies an open rate decay to the weighted predicted open rate of the rate maximization objective function; and the threshold interaction probability objective function increases a probability that the user will either open or click a distributed electronic communication a threshold number of times within the target time horizon.
14. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to utilize a genetic algorithm to generate a distribution schedule for providing electronic communications to a user by iteratively: utilizing an objective function to determine a set of candidate distribution schedules based on a predicted open rate, a predicted click rate, and a predicted fatigue rate for the user over a target time horizon; generating a crossover distribution schedule by combining candidate distribution schedules from the set of candidate distribution schedules; generating a mutation distribution schedule by modifying a candidate distribution schedule from the set of candidate distribution schedules; and utilizing the objective function to determine a new set of candidate distribution schedules from the set of candidate distribution schedules, the crossover distribution schedule, and the mutation distribution schedule.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the objective function comprises one or more of a rate maximization objective function, an open rate decay objective function, or a threshold interaction probability objective function.
16. The system of claim 15, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to receive an input from an administrator device to select the objective function from among the rate maximization objective function, the open rate decay objective function, or the threshold interaction probability objective function.
17. The system of claim 14, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to utilize a fitness function to evaluate the objective function to select the set of candidate distribution schedules from among a plurality of candidate distribution schedules in accordance with one or more distribution parameters.
18. The system of claim 17, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to receive an input from an administrator device to set the one or more distribution parameters.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein generating the crossover distribution schedule comprises: randomly selecting a first candidate distribution schedule and a second candidate distribution schedule from among the set of candidate distribution schedules; selecting a subset of distribution times from the first candidate distribution schedule; and combining the subset of distribution times with the second candidate distribution schedule.
20. The system of claim 14, wherein generating the mutation distribution schedule comprises: randomly selecting a candidate distribution schedule from among the set of candidate distribution schedules; and implementing a complement operation with respect to one or more individual distribution times within the candidate distribution schedule.
</claims>
</document>
