<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/3212,G06F1/3296,G06F11/30,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROTEM, EFRAIM
SOE, SOETHIHA
WANG ZHONGSHENG
HERMERDING II, JAMES
NGE, CHEE LIM
DOMEIKA, MAXIMILLAN
Binns, Christopher Joseph
Elhefnawy, Wessam
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73744557
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND APPARATUS TO IMPROVE COMPUTING DEVICE POWER MANAGEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, apparatus, systems, and articles of manufacture are disclosed to improve computing device power management. An example apparatus includes a usage classifier to classify usage of a computing system, a low battery probability determiner to determine a probability of the computing system operating with a low battery capacity based on the classification, a policy reward determiner to determine an adjustment of a policy based on at least one of the classification or the probability, and determine a battery capacity of the computing system in response to the adjustment, and a policy adjustor to adjust the policy in response to the battery capacity satisfying a threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for device power management, the apparatus comprising: a usage classifier to classify usage of a computing system; a low battery probability determiner to determine a probability of the computing system operating with a low battery capacity based on the classification; a policy reward determiner to: determine an adjustment of a policy based on at least one of the classification or the probability; and determine a battery capacity of the computing system in response to the adjustment; and a policy adjustor to adjust the policy in response to the battery capacity satisfying a threshold.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, further including an interface to determine a telemetry parameter based on telemetry data obtained from the computing system, the telemetry parameter based on at least one of a location, a process, a power transition event, or a power source associated with the computing system.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the policy is a first policy, and the policy adjustor is to adjust the first policy to a second policy in response to the probability satisfying a low battery probability threshold, the first policy to improve performance of the computing system, the second policy to improve energy efficiency of the computing system.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the policy is a first policy, and the policy adjustor is to adjust the first policy to a second policy in response to the probability not satisfying a low battery probability threshold, the first policy to improve energy efficiency of the computing system, the second policy to improve performance of the computing system.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the policy is representative of improving performance of the computing system, and the policy adjustor is to adjust the policy by at least one of increasing a first frequency associated with a hardware resource, increasing a second frequency associated with a software resource, or increasing power delivery to an antenna.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the adjustment includes at least one of adjusting a first frequency associated with a hardware resource, a second frequency associated with a software resource, or power delivery to an antenna.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the adjustment is a first adjustment representative of a first state of a hardware resource, and, in response to the battery capacity not satisfying the threshold, the policy adjustor is to determine a second adjustment representative of a second state of the hardware resource, the first state to cause a first energy expenditure greater than a second energy expenditure by the second state.
8. A non-transitory computer readable storage device comprising instructions that, when executed, cause a machine to at least: classify usage of a computing system; determine a probability of the computing system operating with a low battery capacity based on the classification; determine an adjustment of a policy based on at least one of the classification or the probability; and determine a battery capacity of the computing system in response to the adjustment; and adjust the policy in response to the battery capacity satisfying a threshold.
9. The non-transitory computer readable storage device of claim 8, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the machine to determine a telemetry parameter based on telemetry data obtained from the computing system, the telemetry parameter based on at least one of a location, a process, a power transition event, or a power source associated with the computing system.
10. The non-transitory computer readable storage device of claim 8, wherein the policy is a first policy, and the instructions, when executed, cause the machine to adjust the first policy to a second policy in response to the probability satisfying a low battery probability threshold, the first policy to improve performance of the computing system, the second policy to improve energy efficiency of the computing system.
11. The non-transitory computer readable storage device of claim 8, wherein the policy is a first policy, and the instructions, when executed, cause the machine to adjust the first policy to a second policy in response to the probability not satisfying a low battery probability threshold, the first policy to improve energy efficiency of the computing system, the second policy to improve performance of the computing system.
12. The non-transitory computer readable storage device of claim 8, wherein the policy is representative of improving performance of the computing system, and the instructions, when executed, cause the machine to adjust the policy by at least one of increasing a first frequency associated with a hardware resource, increasing a second frequency associated with a software resource, or increasing power delivery to an antenna.
13. The non-transitory computer readable storage device of claim 8, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the machine to determine the adjustment to include at least one of adjusting a first frequency associated with a hardware resource, a second frequency associated with a software resource, or power delivery to an antenna.
14. The non-transitory computer readable storage device of claim 8, wherein the adjustment is a first adjustment representative of a first state of a hardware resource, and the instructions, when executed, cause the machine to, in response to the battery capacity not satisfying the threshold, determine a second adjustment representative of a second state of the hardware resource, the first state to cause a first energy expenditure greater than a second energy expenditure by the second state.
15. An apparatus for device power management, the apparatus comprising: means for classifying usage of a computing system; means for determining a probability of the computing system operating with a low battery capacity based on the classification; means for identifying an adjustment of a policy based on at least one of the classification or the probability; and means for predicting a battery capacity of the computing system in response to the adjustment; and means for adjusting the policy in response to the battery capacity satisfying a threshold.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the means for determining is first means for determining, and further including second means for determining a telemetry parameter based on telemetry data obtained from the computing system, the telemetry parameter based on at least one of a location, a process, a power transition event, or a power source associated with the computing system.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the policy is a first policy, and the means for adjusting is to adjust the first policy to a second policy in response to the probability satisfying a low battery probability threshold, the first policy to improve performance of the computing system, the second policy to improve energy efficiency of the computing system.
18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the policy is a first policy, and the means for adjusting is to adjust the first policy to a second policy in response to the probability not satisfying a low battery probability threshold, the first policy to improve energy efficiency of the computing system, the second policy to improve performance of the computing system.
19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the policy is representative of improving performance of the computing system, and the means for adjusting is to adjust the policy by at least one of increasing a first frequency associated with a hardware resource, increasing a second frequency associated with a software resource, or increasing power delivery to an antenna.
20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the adjustment includes at least one of adjusting a first frequency associated with a hardware resource, a second frequency associated with a software resource, or power delivery to an antenna.
21. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the adjustment is a first adjustment representative of a first state of a hardware resource, and, in response to the battery capacity not satisfying the threshold, the means for adjusting is to determine a second adjustment representative of a second state of the hardware resource, the first state to cause a first energy expenditure greater than a second energy expenditure by the second state.
22. A method for device power management, the method comprising: classifying usage of a computing system; determining a probability of the computing system operating with a low battery capacity based on the classification; determining an adjustment of a policy based on at least one of the classification or the probability; and determining a battery capacity of the computing system in response to the adjustment; and adjusting the policy in response to the battery capacity satisfying a threshold.
23. The method of claim 22, further including determining a telemetry parameter based on telemetry data obtained from the computing system, the telemetry parameter based on at least one of a location, a process, a power transition event, or a power source associated with the computing system.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein the policy is a first policy, and adjusting the policy includes adjusting the first policy to a second policy in response to the probability satisfying a low battery probability threshold, the first policy to improve performance of the computing system, the second policy to improve energy efficiency of the computing system.
25. The method of claim 22, wherein the policy is a first policy, and adjusting the policy includes adjusting the first policy to a second policy in response to the probability not satisfying a low battery probability threshold, the first policy to improve energy efficiency of the computing system, the second policy to improve performance of the computing system.
26. The method of claim 22, wherein the policy is representative of improving performance of the computing system, and adjusting the policy includes at least one of increasing a first frequency associated with a hardware resource, increasing a second frequency associated with a software resource, or increasing power delivery to an antenna.
27. The method of claim 22, wherein the adjustment includes at least one of adjusting a first frequency associated with a hardware resource, a second frequency associated with a software resource, or power delivery to an antenna.
28. The method of claim 22, wherein the adjustment is a first adjustment representative of a first state of a hardware resource, and further including, in response to the battery capacity not satisfying the threshold, determining a second adjustment representative of a second state of the hardware resource, the first state to cause a first energy expenditure greater than a second energy expenditure by the second state.
</claims>
</document>
