<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/60,G16H20/60,G16H50/20,G16H80/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOVINDJEE, ANITA
LIU SU
LIU, KAI
RAVI, MANJUNATH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71405214
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PERSONAL CUSTOMIZED GUIDANCE FOR TREATING PATIENTS
</title>

<abstract>
Approaches presented herein enable treating a medical condition via individual customized cognitive guidance. More specifically, a current interactive and customized diagnosis object (ICDO) comprising a treatment schedule for a patient is generated by combining a set of previous ICDOs from the patient, wherein each ICDO has a structure which defines elements that are used to diagnose a symptom and match the patient with a treatment. A status of the patient is monitored in real time via an internet of things network to detect an actual event of the patient differing from the treatment schedule. In real time, the treatment schedule is modified responsive to the differing event by adjusting the current ICDO by exchanging one element of the treatment plan for a new element according to a learned set of rules to compensate for the differing event. This modified treatment schedule is provided to the patient in real time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for treating a medical condition via individual customized cognitive guidance, the method comprising: generating a current interactive and customized diagnosis object (ICDO) comprising a treatment schedule for a patient by combining a set of previous ICDOs from the patient, wherein each ICDO has a structure which defines elements that are used to diagnose a symptom of the patient and match the patient with a treatment; monitoring a status of the patient in real time via an internet of things network associated with the patient to detect an actual event of the patient differing from the treatment schedule; modifying, in real time, the treatment schedule responsive to the differing event by adjusting the current ICDO of the patient according to a learned set of rules to compensate for the differing event, the adjusting comprising exchanging one element of the treatment plan for a new element; and providing the modified treatment schedule to the patient in real time.
2. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: creating automatically an initial ICDO for the patient; monitoring a real-time status of the patient via the internet of things network associated with the patient; generating automatically, responsive to the monitoring, a set of ICDOs updating the initial ICDO for the patient; and generating the set of rules customized to the patient from a set of symptom patterns and a set of treatment patterns learned from adjustments by a professional to the set of ICDOs during a machine learning phase.
3. The method of claim 2, the machine learning phase comprising: providing a configuration user interface for controlling and managing a real-time intervention service from a human user; and receiving a manual update to an ICDO of the set of ICDOs from a human who is monitoring symptoms of the patient and progress of the patient over time.
4. The method of claim 1, the learned set of rules comprising instructions to create a new treatment plan responsive to a progress of the patient not meeting a predetermined threshold.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the actual event is an actual eating event and the treatment schedule is a scheduled eating plan and wherein the method further comprises: rating a severity level of the actual eating event of the user by comparing the actual eating event to a set of eating events in the scheduled eating plan for the patient; and updating the scheduled eating plan for the patient based on the severity level of the actual eating event.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: tracking patient activity, nutrition, and eating behavior over time; creating a diagnosis scheme to determine symptom severity, divided by behavior at each meal; defining a framework and related algorithms for supporting a real-time scheme filter; tracking historical symptom and treatment plan records against learned professional diagnoses; and developing a cognitive symptom and treatment pattern repository over time.
7. The method of claim 1, each ICDO comprising a physical description of the patient, activity of the patient, a scheduled eating plan for the patient, and a set of actual eating events of the patient.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the scheduled eating plan for the patient comprises a list of a plurality of foods and portions the patient should eat at predetermined times during a day, and wherein the set of actual eating events of the patient comprises a list of a plurality of foods and portions the patient actually ate, an eating quantity rating, an eating schedule value, and an eating severity level value.
9. A computer system for treating a medical condition via individual customized cognitive guidance, the computer system comprising: a memory medium comprising program instructions; a bus coupled to the memory medium; and a processor, for executing the program instructions, coupled to a cognitive and customized assistant engine via the bus that when executing the program instructions causes the system to: generate a current interactive and customized diagnosis object (ICDO) comprising a treatment schedule for a patient by combining a set of previous ICDOs from the patient, wherein each ICDO has a structure which defines elements that are used to diagnose a symptom of the patient and match the patient with a treatment; monitor a status of the patient in real time via an internet of things network associated with the patient to detect an actual event of the patient differing from the treatment schedule; modify, in real time, the treatment schedule responsive to the differing event by adjusting the current ICDO of the patient according to a learned set of rules to compensate for the differing event, the adjusting comprising exchanging one element of the treatment plan for a new element; and provide the modified treatment schedule to the patient in real time.
10. The computer system of claim 9, the instructions further causing the system to: create automatically an initial ICDO for the patient; monitor a real-time status of the patient via the internet of things network associated with the patient; generate automatically, responsive to the monitoring, a set of ICDOs updating the initial ICDO for the patient; and generate the set of rules customized to the patient from a set of symptom patterns and a set of treatment patterns learned from adjustments by a professional to the set of ICDOs during a machine learning phase.
11. The computer system of claim 9, the learned set of rules comprising instructions to create a new treatment plan responsive to a progress of the patient not meeting a predetermined threshold.
12. The computer system of claim 9, the actual event being an actual eating event and the treatment schedule being a scheduled eating plan, and the instructions further causing the system to: rate a severity level of the actual eating event of the user by comparing the actual eating event to a set of eating events in the scheduled eating plan for the patient; and update the scheduled eating plan for the patient based on the severity level of the actual eating event.
13. The computer system of claim 9, the instructions further causing the system to: track patient activity, nutrition, and eating behavior over time; create a diagnosis scheme to determine symptom severity, divided by behavior at each meal; define a framework and related algorithms for supporting a real-time scheme filter; track historical symptom and treatment plan records against learned professional diagnoses; and develop a cognitive symptom and treatment pattern repository over time.
14. The computer system of claim 9, wherein each ICDO comprises a physical description of the patient, activity of the patient, a scheduled eating plan for the patient, and a set of actual eating events of the patient, and wherein the scheduled eating plan for the patient comprises a list of a plurality of foods and portions the patient should eat at predetermined times during a day, and wherein the set of actual eating events of the patient comprises a list of a plurality of foods and portions the patient actually ate, an eating quantity rating, an eating schedule value, and an eating severity level value.
15. A computer program product for treating a medical condition via individual customized cognitive guidance, the computer program product comprising a computer readable hardware storage device, and program instructions stored on the computer readable hardware storage device, to: generate a current interactive and customized diagnosis object (ICDO) comprising a treatment schedule for a patient by combining a set of previous ICDOs from the patient, wherein each ICDO has a structure which defines elements that are used to diagnose a symptom of the patient and match the patient with a treatment; monitor a status of the patient in real time via an internet of things network associated with the patient to detect an actual event of the patient differing from the treatment schedule; modify, in real time, the treatment schedule responsive to the differing event by adjusting the current ICDO of the patient according to a learned set of rules to compensate for the differing event, the adjusting comprising exchanging one element of the treatment plan for a new element; and provide the modified treatment schedule to the patient in real time.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, the computer readable storage device further comprising instructions to: create automatically an initial ICDO for the patient; monitor a real-time status of the patient via the internet of things network associated with the patient; generate automatically, responsive to the monitoring, a set of ICDOs updating the initial ICDO for the patient; and generate the set of rules customized to the patient from a set of symptom patterns and a set of treatment patterns learned from adjustments by a professional to the set of ICDOs during a machine learning phase.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, the learned set of rules comprising instructions to create a new treatment plan responsive to a progress of the patient not meeting a predetermined threshold.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, the actual event being an actual eating event and the treatment schedule being a scheduled eating plan, and the computer readable storage device further comprising instructions to: rate a severity level of the actual eating event of the user by comparing the actual eating event to a set of eating events in the scheduled eating plan for the patient; and update the scheduled eating plan for the patient based on the severity level of the actual eating event.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, the computer readable storage device further comprising instructions to: track patient activity, nutrition, and eating behavior over time; create a diagnosis scheme to determine symptom severity, divided by behavior at each meal; define a framework and related algorithms for supporting a real-time scheme filter; track historical symptom and treatment plan records against learned professional diagnoses; and develop a cognitive symptom and treatment pattern repository over time.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein each ICDO comprises a physical description of the patient, activity of the patient, a scheduled eating plan for the patient, and a set of actual eating events of the patient, and wherein the scheduled eating plan for the patient comprises a list of a plurality of foods and portions the patient should eat at predetermined times during a day, and wherein the set of actual eating events of the patient comprises a list of a plurality of foods and portions the patient actually ate, an eating quantity rating, an eating schedule value, and an eating severity level value.
</claims>
</document>
