<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N10/00,H03K3/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
NEVEN, HARTMUT
SMELYANSKIY, VADIM
Niu, Yuezhen
Boixo Castrillo, Sergio
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61244697
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
UNIVERSAL CONTROL FOR IMPLEMENTING QUANTUM GATES
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus for implementing a unitary quantum gate on one or more qubits. In one aspect, a method includes the actions designing a control pulse for the unitary quantum gate, comprising: defining a universal quantum control cost function, wherein the control cost function comprises a qubit leakage penalty term representing i) coherent qubit leakage, and incoherent qubit leakage across all frequency components during a time dependent Hamiltonian evolution that realizes the unitary quantum gate; adjusting parameters of the time dependent Hamiltonian evolution to vary a control cost according to the control cost function such that leakage errors are reduced; generating the control pulse using the adjusted parameters; and applying the control pulse to the one or more qubits to implement the unitary quantum gate.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for implementing a unitary quantum gate on one or more qubits, the method comprising: designing a control pulse for the unitary quantum gate, comprising: defining a universal quantum control cost function, wherein the control cost function comprises a qubit leakage penalty term representing i) coherent qubit leakage, and ii) incoherent qubit leakage across all frequency components during a time dependent Hamiltonian evolution that realizes the unitary quantum gate; adjusting parameters of the time dependent Hamiltonian evolution to vary a control cost according to the control cost function such that leakage errors are reduced; generating the control pulse using the adjusted parameters; and applying the control pulse to the one or more qubits to implement the unitary quantum gate.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the universal control cost function further comprises a control constraint penalty term.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the universal control cost function further comprises a total runtime penalty term.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein adjusting parameters of the time dependent Hamiltonian evolution comprises adjusting parameters of the time dependent Hamiltonian evolution to vary the control cost according to the control cost function such that total quantum gate runtime is reduced.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the universal control cost function further comprises a gate fidelity penalty term.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein adjusting parameters of the time dependent Hamiltonian evolution comprises adjusting parameters of the time dependent Hamiltonian evolution to vary the control cost according to the control cost function such that quantum gate fidelity is increased.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein defining the universal quantum control cost function comprises: generating a block-off-diagonal component of an effective Hamiltonian with direct coupling leakage errors suppressed to any given order; determining a coherent qubit leakage penalty sub-term using the generated block off-diagonal component of the effective Hamiltonian; determining an incoherent qubit leakage penalty sub-term using the generated block off-diagonal component of the effective Hamiltonian; and defining the qubit leakage penalty term as the sum of the coherent qubit leakage penalty sub-term and the incoherent qubit leakage penalty sub-term of both on-resonant and off-resonant frequency components.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein generating the block-off-diagonal component of an effective Hamiltonian comprises generalizing the time-dependent Schrieffer-Wolff transformation to suppress direct coupling qubit leakage to any given order, comprising: separating a Hamiltonian characterizing the one or more qubits into multiple components, the components comprising a first component representing time-dependent coupling between different qubit energy subspaces, wherein the Hamiltonian is expressed in terms of multiple basis states; defining an effective Hamiltonian by performing a Schrieffer-Wolff transformation to rotate the Hamiltonian basis states, the effective Hamiltonian comprising an anti-Hermitian rotation operator; and determining a given order solution of the rotation operator to generate a block-off-diagonal component of the effective Hamiltonian with direct coupling leakage errors suppressed to the given order, optionally wherein the given order is second order.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the multiple components further comprise a second component representing a time-independent part of the Hamiltonian and a third component representing time-dependent coupling within each qubit energy subspace
10. The method of claim 8, wherein each qubit energy subspace is separated from others by a sufficiently large energy gap.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the determined given order solution of the rotation operator comprises a perturbative solution.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein determining a coherent qubit leakage penalty sub-term using the generated block off-diagonal component of the effective Hamiltonian comprises: determining a sum of the amplitudes of all qubit states outside the computational energy subspace due to the block-off-diagonal component of the effective Hamiltonian.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the coherent qubit leakage penalty sub-term is bounded above by a Frobenius norm of the block off-diagonal component of the effective Hamiltonian.
14. The method of claim 7, wherein determining an incoherent qubit leakage penalty sub-term using the generated block off-diagonal component of the effective Hamiltonian comprises: generalizing the applicability of the adiabatic theorem from pure states to energy subspaces, enabling time-dependent Hamiltonian evolution to occur within and between different energy subspaces; and determining the incoherent qubit leakage penalty sub-term using the generalized adiabatic theorem.
15. The method of claim 7, wherein the coherent qubit leakage penalty sub-term dominates in an off-resonant frequency regime and the incoherent qubit leakage penalty sub-term dominates in an on-resonant frequency regime.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein incoherent leakage comprises leakage resulting from violation of adiabaticity during a time dependent Hamiltonian evolution.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein coherent leakage comprises leakage resulting from direct coupling between a qubit's computational energy states and higher energy states.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein both coherent leakage and incoherent leakage comprise on-resonant frequency and off-resonant frequency leakage.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein adjusting parameters of the time dependent Hamiltonian evolution to vary a control cost according to the control cost function such that leakage errors are reduced comprises applying optimization techniques.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more qubits comprise superconducting qubits.
21. An apparatus for implementing a single qubit unitary quantum gate, the apparatus comprising: one or more classical processors; a quantum device in data communication with the one or more classical processors, wherein the quantum device comprises: one or more qubits; one or more control pulse drivelines; one or more couplers, each coupler coupling a corresponding qubit to a control pulse driveline; a control pulse generator configured to generate control pulses on the one or more drivelines; wherein the apparatus is configured to perform the method of claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
