<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OWNLOCAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
NOVEK, JASON
MCFADDEN, ANDREW
ARMBRUST, LLOYD
GONZALEZ, JORGE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65038024
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS OF GENERATING DIGITAL CAMPAIGNS
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes receiving data indicative of content to be published by a publisher and generating output text data based on comparing text data output by different text recognition operations on the received data. Another method includes extracting one or more text items and one or more images from the received data, determining that the content is associated with a first entity, and generating a directory webpage that includes the one or more text items and the one or more images. The directory webpage is associated with the first entity and is hosted in a subdomain of a domain associated with the publisher. A particular text item of the one or more text items, a particular image of the one or more images, or both, is associated with offer information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-readable storage device storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: obtaining advertisement data indicative of content to be published by a print publisher; initiating a text recognition operation on the obtained advertisement data, the first text recognition operation outputting first text data; initiating metadata extraction operation on the obtained advertisement data, the metadata extraction operation identifying one or more websites, one or more phone numbers, one or more physical locations, and one or more social media accounts associated with the advertisement data; extracting one or more images from the obtained advertisement data; generating dynamic digital advertisement comprising one or more extracted images, one or more extracted metadata, and one or more portions of the extracted text; categorizing the digital advertisement into advertisement categories; and adding the digital advertisement to a directory webpage that is comprised of one or more other digital advertisements.
2. The computer-readable storage device of claim 1, wherein the directory webpage is hosted on a domain associated with the print publisher.
3. An apparatus comprising: a processor; and a memory storing instructions executable by the processor to perform operations comprising: obtaining advertisement data indicative of content to be published by a print publisher; initiating a text recognition operation on the obtained advertisement data, the first text recognition operation outputting first text data; initiating metadata extraction operation on the obtained advertisement data, the metadata extraction operation identifying one or more websites, one or more phone numbers, one or more physical locations, and one or more social media accounts associated with the advertisement data; extracting one or more images from the obtained advertisement data; generating dynamic digital advertisement comprising one or more extracted images, one or more extracted metadata, and one or more portions of the extracted text; categorizing the digital advertisement into advertisement categories; and adding the digital advertisement to a directory webpage that is comprised of one or more other digital advertisements.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein advertisement data comprises a print advertisement and associated data.
5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein advertisement content is to be published in a newspaper associated with a publisher, and wherein the domain associated with the publisher comprises a website associated with the newspaper.
6. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the one or more metadata items is comprised of an entity name, a street address, a date or date range, a telephone number, an e-mail address, event information, or any combination thereof.
7. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the one or more images is comprised of a logo, a photograph, a drawing, or any combination thereof.
8. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the offer information is associated with an offering of a good or a service.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the offering has an expiration date or a validity time period.
10. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the offer information comprises coupon information.
11. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the data indicative of the content comprises a multi-layer document file that includes a hidden layer and wherein the operations further comprise extracting at least one of the one or more text items or the one or more images from the hidden layer.
12. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the data indicative of the content comprises metadata associated with the content.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the metadata includes run date information associated with the content, a content identifier (ID) associated with the content, or both.
14. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the operations further comprise generating, for a particular extracted image, a first version of the particular extracted image and a second version of the particular extracted image, wherein the first version has a first image resolution that differs from a second image resolution of the second version.
15. A method comprising: obtaining advertisement data indicative of content to be published by a print publisher; initiating a text recognition operation on the obtained advertisement data, the first text recognition operation outputting first text data; initiating metadata extraction operation on the obtained advertisement data, the metadata extraction operation identifying one or more websites, one or more phone numbers, one or more physical locations, and one or more social media accounts associated with the advertisement data; extracting one or more images from the obtained advertisement data; generating dynamic digital advertisement comprising one or more extracted images, one or more extracted metadata, and one or more portions of the extracted text; categorizing the digital advertisement into advertisement categories; and adding the digital advertisement to a directory webpage that is comprised of one or more other digital advertisements.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the text recognition operation is comprised of an optical character recognition (OCR) operation.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the data corresponds to a multi-layer document file.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the multi-layer document file comprises a hidden layer comprising a first text data and a second text data associated with a second layer of the multi-layer document file.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein the first text data and the second text data include common text, and the common text is included in the output text data.
20. The method of claim 15, further comprising, when the first text data includes text that is not included in the second text data, determining whether to include the text in the output text data based on confidence data associated with the text.
</claims>
</document>
