<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/955,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDI TAGHI ABAD, FARDIN
FARIVAR, REZA
TAYLOR, KENNETH
GOODSITT, JEREMY EDWARD
TRUONG, ANH
WALTERS, AUSTIN GRANT
WATSON, MARK LOUIS
PHAM, VINCENT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66098597
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Detecting fraudulent user access to online web services via user flow
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques to detect unauthorized access and/or use of a user's account provided by an online web service are provided. A user's activity on the online web service can be monitored to determine a model of the user flow through the online web service. The model of user flow can be unique to the user or can be a model assigned to a cluster of users having similar behaviors or mannerisms when navigating the online web service. The model can vary based on the type of device used by the user to access the online web service. Once a model is determined, subsequent activity on the online web service by the user can be monitored and compared to the model of user flow. Unauthorized access and/or use of the user's online account can be detected if the subsequent activity fails to fit the model of the user flow.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a storage device; and logic, at least a portion of the logic implemented in circuitry coupled to the storage device, the logic to: receive, at a website, selections of links by a first user of the website; store data indicative of each selected link and a time between each link selection over a plurality of distinct sessions on the website by the first user; determine a first model of a flow of the first user through the website based on the stored data indicative of the selected links and the time between each link selection; compare the first model of the flow of the first user through the website to subsequent first user activity on the website including a sequence of link selections; determine the subsequent first user activity on the website is unauthorized when the subsequent first user activity deviates from the first model of the flow of the first user through the website; and revoke access to the first user to the website based on the determination the subsequent first user activity on the website is unauthorized, wherein the subsequent first user activity is determined unauthorized when a first value representing a first likelihood the subsequent first user activity fits a second, different model of a flow of a second, different user of the website is higher than a second value representing a second likelihood the subsequent first user activity fits the first model of the flow of the first user through the website.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, the first model of the flow of the first user to comprise a first customized unique model.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, the second, different model of the flow of the second, different user to comprise a second, different customized unique model.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, the logic to receive an indication of a type of computing device used by the first user to access the website.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the first model of the flow of the first user through the website is based on the type of computing device used by the first user to access the website.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the type of computing device is one of a mobile computing device, a tablet computing device, and a desktop computing device.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, the first model of the flow of the first user through the website determined based on a specific order of the selections of the links.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, the logic to receive an indication of each form filled in by the first user over the plurality of distinct sessions on the website, to store each indication of each form, and to determine the first model of flow by the first user through the website based on the stored indication for each form.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, the first model of the flow of the first user through the website to comprise a stored value representing a likelihood a particular sequence of links is selected by the first user.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, the determination the subsequent first user activity on the website is unauthorized to comprise comparing a value representing a likelihood of the first user requesting the sequence of link selections to a threshold.
11. A method, comprising: receiving, at a website, selections of links by a first user of the website; storing data indicative of each selected link and a time between each link selection over a plurality of distinct sessions on the website by the first user; determining a first model of a flow of the first user through the website based on the stored data indicative of the selected links and the time between each link selection; comparing the first model of the flow of the first user through the website to subsequent first user activity on the website including a sequence of link selections; and determining the subsequent first user activity on the website is unauthorized when comparison of the subsequent first user activity to the first model of the flow of the first user through the website indicates the first user is not responsible for the subsequent first user activity, wherein the subsequent first user activity is determined unauthorized when a first value representing a first likelihood the subsequent first user activity fits a second, different model of a flow of a second, different user of the website is higher than a second value representing a second likelihood the subsequent first user activity fits the first model of the flow of the first user through the website.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising determining the first model of the flow of the first user through the website based on an order of the selections of the links.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving, at the website, requests for data manipulation operations performed by the first user on the website; storing data indicative of the requested data manipulation operations; and determining the model of the flow of the first user through the website based on the stored data indicative of the requested data manipulation operations performed by the first user.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving, at the website, an indication of a data field filled in by the first user on the web site; storing the indication of the data field filled in by the first user; and determining the model of the flow of the first user through the website based on the stored indication of the field filled in by the first user.
15. The method of claim 11, the first model of the flow of the first user to comprise a first customized model and the second, different model of the flow of the second, different user to comprise a second, different customized model.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising updating the model of the flow of the first user through the website based on the subsequent first user activity when the subsequent first user activity is determined to not be unauthorized.
17. At least one non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising a set of instructions that, in response to being executed on a computing device, cause the computing device to: monitor a flow of a first user through a website over a plurality of distinct sessions on the website by the first user; determine a first model of the flow of the first user through the website based on the monitored flow of the first user through the website; compare the first model of the flow of the first user through the website to subsequent first user activity on the website; and determine the subsequent first user activity on the website is unauthorized when the subsequent first user activity deviates from the first model of the flow of the first user through the website, wherein the subsequent first user activity is determined unauthorized when a first value representing a first likelihood the subsequent first user activity fits a second, different model of a flow of a second, different user of the website is higher than a second value representing a second likelihood the subsequent first user activity fits the first model of the flow of the first user through the website.
18. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, the flow of the first user to comprise a sequence of links selected by the user on the website.
19. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, the flow of the first user to comprise a sequence of types of data fields filled in by the user on the website.
20. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, the first model of the flow of the first user to comprise a first unique model and the second, different model of the flow of the second, different user to comprise a second, different unique model.
</claims>
</document>
