<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/021,A61B5/024,A61B5/145,A61K31/155,A61K31/4045,A61K31/4418,A61K31/485,G16H10/60,G16H20/10,G16H20/70,G16H40/67,G16H50/20,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Closed Loop Medicine Ltd.
</assignee>

<inventors>
RICHARDS, ANDREW JOHN MCGLASHAN
COX, DAVID
O'Regan, David
Yadi, Hakim Adam
Sartain, Felicity Kate
Goldsmith, Paul
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70918716
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and Systems for Providing Personalised Medicine to a Patient
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to methods and systems suitable for use in identifying and providing personalised medicine to a patient. In some aspects, systems and method generate a co-therapy regimen for a patient suffering from a disease or condition. An identification of a co-therapy suitable to treat the disease or condition is received. A desired patient endpoint and a patient position are received, wherein the patient position is defined relative to the desired patient endpoint. A dataset relating to the patient is stored. The dataset comprises one or more patient data based on patient-related measurements. The dataset, the patient position and the desired patient endpoint are processed to generate a regimen for the co-therapy. The regimen is stored in a database.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for generating a co-therapy regimen for a patient suffering from a disease or condition, the system comprising at least one data processing device having at least one processor, wherein the system is configured to: a) receive an identification of a co-therapy suitable to treat the disease or condition; b) receive a desired patient endpoint and a patient position, wherein the patient position is defined relative to the desired patient endpoint; c) store a dataset relating to the patient, the dataset comprising one or more patient data based on patient-related measurements; d) process the dataset, the patient position and the desired patient endpoint to generate a regimen for the co-therapy; and e) store the regimen in a database.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one data processing device is further configured to, after step e): f) receive additional patient-related information; g) update the dataset relating to the patient based on the additional patient-related information; h) process the updated dataset, the patient position and the desired patient endpoint to generate an updated regimen for the co-therapy; and i) store the updated regimen in the database.
3. The system of claim 1, where the at least one data processing device is further configured to, after step e); f) receive additional patient-related information; g) calculate whether an elapsed time associated with the additional patient-related information exceeds a threshold value; in the affirmative: h) update the dataset relating to the patient based on the additional patient-related information; i) process the updated dataset, the patient position and the desired patient endpoint to generate an updated regimen for the co-therapy; and, j) store the updated regimen in the database; in the negative: k) update the dataset relating to the patient based on the additional patient-related information.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to: receive sensor data gathered by at least one sensor; and determine at least one of the one or more patient data based at least in part on the received sensor data.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the at least one sensor is an environmental sensor and/or a physiological sensor.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the environmental sensor is any combination of a light sensor, a temperature sensor, an acoustic sensor, an accelerometer, an air pressure sensor, an airborne particulate sensor, a global positioning sensor, a humidity sensor, an electric field sensor, a magnetic field sensor, a moisture sensor, an air quality sensor, a sensor capable of detecting proximity to a WiFi transmitter and/or a cellular network base station, and a Geiger counter.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the physiological sensor is a biological or end-point based biomarker sensor.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a human interface device, and wherein the system is configured to output the regimen using the human interface device.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to process the dataset, the patient position and the desired patient endpoint using a rule-based system to generate the regimen for the co-therapy.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to process the dataset, the patient position and the desired patient endpoint using a machine learning algorithm to generate the regimen for the co-therapy.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the co-therapy comprises: (i) two or more pharmacological therapies; (ii) one or more pharmacological therapy and one or more non-pharmacological therapy; or, (iii) two non-pharmacological therapies.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the disease or condition is selected from the group consisting of pre-diabetes; diabetes; cardiovascular disease; neurodegeneration diseases; atrial fibrillation; attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD); autoimmune diseases; chronic graft-versus-host disease; hepatitis; chronic kidney disease; arthritis and chronic osteoarticular diseases; cancer; obesity; asthma; sinusitis; cystic fibrosis; tuberculosis; chronic obstructive airways disease, bronchitis; bronchiolitis; pulmonary fibrosis; pain, including chronic pain syndromes; depression; eating disorders; polycystic ovary syndrome; epilepsy; fibromyalgia; viral diseases; Huntington's disease; hypotension; hypertension; allergic rhinitis; multiple sclerosis; fatigue states, including chronic fatigue syndrome; insomnia; narcolepsy; osteoporosis; periodontal disease; postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome; sickle cell anaemia and other haemoglobin disorders; sleep apnoea; thyroid disease; reflux, including gastroesophageal reflux; vomiting; irritable bowel syndrome (IBS); inflammatory bowel disease (IBD); peptic ulcer; acute urticarial; atopic dermatitis; contact dermatitis; seborrheic dermatitis; headache, including migraine, cluster headache, and tension-type headache; addiction; thromboembolic disease; hair loss; hormone replacement therapy; psychiatric disorders; endocrine dysfunctions, including growth hormone deficiency, hypothyroidism; haematological disorders, including clotting factor deficiencies or low levels of white or red blood cells; neurodevelopmental delay (NDD) disorders, including Autistic Spectrum Disorder (ASD), Smith Magenis Syndrome and ADHD; parasomnias, including REM and NREM parasomnias and nightmare disorders; sleep movement disorders; chorea and tic disorders.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein: a) the disease or condition is insomnia and the co-therapy comprises melatonin and cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia (CBTi); b) the disease or condition is diabetes and the co-therapy comprises metformin and cognitive behavioural therapy; c) the disease or condition is hypertension and the co-therapy comprises amlodipine and cognitive behavioural therapy; or, d) the disease or condition is opiate dependency and the co-therapy comprises: (i) morphine and an α2 agonist; (ii) morphine and cognitive behavioural therapy; or, (iii) morphine, an α2 agonist and cognitive behavioural therapy.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the desired patient endpoint is amelioration of the disease or condition, amelioration of the symptoms associated with the disease or condition, amelioration of the side-effects of a pharmacological therapy, and/or amelioration of the side-effects of a non-pharmacological therapy.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more patient-related measurements includes: a) one or more physiological measurements; b) one or more patient-centred outcomes; c) one or more environmental measurements; and/or, d) one or more behavioural factor measurements.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more patient-centred outcomes includes one or more patient-reported outcomes.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the system is further configured to map the one or more patient-reported outcomes onto a predefined scale to create mapped patient-reported outcomes, and wherein the one or more patient data stored in the dataset are based at least in part on the mapped patient-reported outcomes.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to apply a weighting factor to each of the patient-related measurements in order to generate the patient data.
19. A method of generating a co-therapy regimen for a patient suffering from a disease or condition, the method comprising the steps of: a) establishing a desired patient endpoint; b) identifying the patient position relative to the desired patient endpoint; c) generating or modifying a dataset relating to the patient, based on one or more patient-related measurements; and, d) processing the dataset, the patient position and the desired patient endpoint to generate the co-therapy regimen.
20. A method of treating a patient suffering from a disease or condition, the method comprising the steps of: a) selecting a co-therapy suitable to treat the disease or condition; b) establishing a desired patient endpoint; c) identifying the patient position relative to the desired patient endpoint; d) generating or modifying a dataset relating to the patient, based on one or more patient-related measurements; e) processing the dataset, the patient position and the desired patient endpoint to produce a regimen for the co-therapy; and, f) administering the co-therapy to the patient according to the regimen.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the method comprises a plurality of treatment cycles, wherein the treatment cycle comprises steps (c) to (f).
22. The method of claim 19, wherein, in the processing step, the dataset, the patient position and the desired patient endpoint are processed using a rule-based system to produce the regimen for the co-therapy.
23. The method of claim 19, wherein, in the processing step, the dataset, the patient position and the desired patient endpoint are processed using a machine learning algorithm to produce the regimen for the co-therapy.
24. The method of claim 19, wherein the co-therapy comprises: (i) two or more pharmacological therapies; (ii) one or more pharmacological therapies and one or more non-pharmacological therapies; or (iii) two non-pharmacological therapies.
25. The method of claim 19, wherein the disease or condition is selected from the group consisting of pre-diabetes; diabetes; cardiovascular disease; neurodegeneration diseases; atrial fibrillation; attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD); autoimmune diseases; chronic graft-versus-host disease; hepatitis; chronic kidney disease; arthritis and chronic osteoarticular diseases; cancer; obesity; asthma; sinusitis; cystic fibrosis; tuberculosis; chronic obstructive airways disease, bronchitis; bronchiolitis; pulmonary fibrosis; pain, including chronic pain syndromes; depression; eating disorders; polycystic ovary syndrome; epilepsy; fibromyalgia; viral diseases; Huntington's disease; hypotension; hypertension; allergic rhinitis; multiple sclerosis; fatigue states, including chronic fatigue syndrome; insomnia; narcolepsy; osteoporosis; periodontal disease; postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome; sickle cell anaemia and other haemoglobin disorders; sleep apnoea; thyroid disease; reflux, including gastroesophageal reflux; vomiting; irritable bowel syndrome (IBS); inflammatory bowel disease (IBD); peptic ulcer; acute urticarial; atopic dermatitis; contact dermatitis; seborrheic dermatitis; headache, including migraine, cluster headache, and tension-type headache; addiction; thromboembolic disease; hair loss; hormone replacement therapy; psychiatric disorders; endocrine dysfunctions, including growth hormone deficiency, hypothyroidism; haematological disorders, including clotting factor deficiencies or low levels of white or red blood cells; neurodevelopmental delay (NDD) disorders, including Autistic Spectrum Disorder (ASD), Smith Magenis Syndrome and ADHD; parasomnias, including REM and NREM parasomnias and nightmare disorders; sleep movement disorders; chorea and tic disorders.
26. The method of claim 19, wherein: a) the disease or condition is insomnia and the co-therapy comprises melatonin and cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia (CBTi); b) the disease or condition is diabetes and the co-therapy comprises metformin and cognitive behavioural therapy; c) the disease or condition is diabetes or obesity and the co-therapy comprises a GLP1-agonist and cognitive behavioural therapy; d) the disease or condition is diabetes or obesity and the co-therapy comprises a GLP1-agonist and metformin; e) the disease or condition is diabetes or obesity and the co-therapy comprises a GLP1-agonist, metformin and cognitive behavioural therapy; f) the disease or condition is hypertension and the co-therapy comprises amlodipine and cognitive behavioural therapy; or, g) the disease or condition is opiate dependency and the co-therapy comprises: (i) morphine and an α2 agonist; (ii) morphine and cognitive behavioural therapy; or, (iii) morphine, an α2 agonist and cognitive behavioural therapy.
27. The method of claim 19, wherein the desired patient endpoint is amelioration of the disease or condition, amelioration of the symptoms associated with the disease or condition, amelioration of the side-effects of a pharmacological therapy, and/or amelioration of the side-effects of a non-pharmacological therapy.
28. The method of claim 19, wherein the one or more patient-related measurements includes: a) one or more physiological measurements; b) one or more patient-centred outcomes; c) one or more environmental measurements; and/or, d) one or more behavioural factor measurements.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the one or more patient-centred outcomes includes one or more patient-reported outcomes.
30. The method of claim 29, further comprising: mapping the one or more patient-reported outcomes onto a predefined scale to create mapped patient-reported outcomes, and wherein the step of generating or modifying a dataset, based on one or more patient-related measurements comprises generating or modifying the dataset based on the mapped patient-reported outcomes.
31. The method of claim 19, wherein the step of generating or modifying a dataset relating to the patient, based on one or more patient-related measurements, comprises applying a weighting factor to each of the one or more patient-related measurements.
</claims>
</document>
