<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06T13/20,G06T19/00,G06T19/20,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SNAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAO CHEN
GAO, YANG
XUE, ZEHAO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66589885
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUGMENTED EXPRESSION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments described herein relate to an augmented expression system to generate and cause display of a specially configured interface to present an augmented reality perspective. The augmented expression system receives image and video data of a user and tracks facial landmarks of the user based on the image and video data, in real-time to generate and present a 3-dimensional (3D) bitmoji of the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: causing display of a presentation of image data at a client device, the image data depicting a set of facial landmarks of a user; detecting a facial tracking input that comprises a movement of a facial landmark from among the set of facial landmarks of the user; identifying an expression based on the movement of the facial landmark from among the set of facial landmarks; selecting a graphical element from among a plurality of graphical elements based on the expression, the graphical element associated to the expression based on a user preference; applying the graphical element to a position upon the image data at the client device; and generating a message that includes a presentation of the image data that includes the graphical element at the position within the image data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: identifying a user profile of the user based on the set of facial landmarks; and selecting the graphical element based on the expression and the user profile.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the message includes an ephemeral message that comprises a display duration.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: receiving a user input that assigns the graphical element to the expression definition at the client device.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the causing display of the presentation of the image data at the client device includes: receiving an input that selects the image data from among a collection of image data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the applying the graphical element to the position upon the image data at the client device includes: overlaying the graphical element at the position upon the image based on the set of facial landmarks.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of facial landmarks comprise a set of attributes, and wherein the selecting the graphical element from among the plurality of graphical elements is based on the expression and the set of attributes of the set of facial landmarks.
8. A system comprising: a memory; and at least one hardware processor coupled to the memory and comprising instructions that causes the system to perform operations comprising: causing display of a presentation of image data at a client device, the image data depicting a set of facial landmarks of a user; detecting a facial tracking input that comprises a movement of a facial landmark from among the set of facial landmarks of the user; identifying an expression based on the movement of the facial landmark from among the set of facial landmarks; selecting a graphical element from among a plurality of graphical elements based on the expression, the graphical element associated to the expression based on a user preference; applying the graphical element to a position upon the image data at the client device; and generating a message that includes a presentation of the image data that includes the graphical element at the position within the image data.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: identifying a user profile of the user based on the set of facial landmarks; and selecting the graphical element based on the expression and the user profile.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the message includes an ephemeral message that comprises a display duration.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving a user input that assigns the graphical element to the expression definition at the client device.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the causing display of the presentation of the image data at the client device includes: receiving an input that selects the image data from among a collection of image data.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the applying the graphical element to the position upon the image data at the client device includes: overlaying the graphical element at the position upon the image based on the set of facial landmarks.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the set of facial landmarks comprise a set of attributes, and wherein the selecting the graphical element from among the plurality of graphical elements is based on the expression and the set of attributes of the set of facial landmarks.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a machine, cause the machine to perform operations comprising: causing display of a presentation of image data at a client device, the image data depicting a set of facial landmarks of a user; detecting a facial tracking input that comprises a movement of a facial landmark from among the set of facial landmarks of the user; identifying an expression based on the movement of the facial landmark from among the set of facial landmarks; selecting a graphical element from among a plurality of graphical elements based on the expression, the graphical element associated to the expression based on a user preference; applying the graphical element to a position upon the image data at the client device; and generating a message that includes a presentation of the image data that includes the graphical element at the position within the image data.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: identifying a user profile of the user based on the set of facial landmarks; and selecting the graphical element based on the expression and the user profile.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the message includes an ephemeral message that comprises a display duration.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving a user input that assigns the graphical element to the expression definition at the client device.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the causing display of the presentation of the image data at the client device includes: receiving an input that selects the image data from among a collection of image data.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the applying the graphical element to the position upon the image data at the client device includes: overlaying the graphical element at the position upon the image based on the set of facial landmarks.
</claims>
</document>
