<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G06T7/00,G16H30/40,G16H40/67,G16H50/20,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Swerdlow, Mark
</assignee>

<inventors>
Swerdlow, Mark
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017924
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SCREENING A PATIENT'S FOOT
</title>

<abstract>
A foot screening system configured to aid in screening a plantar surface of a foot of a user for sores, ulcers, and other signs of diseases. The foot screening system including a foot platform including a foot contacting surface configured to serve as a foot stabilizing device during a screening of a plantar surface of a foot of a user, a camera stabilizer platform configured to support a mobile computing device at a desired angle and distance from the foot platform, and a user interface configured to aid a user in capturing one or more images of the plantar surface of the foot of the user, flagging the one or more images for additional review, and uploading the one or more images to a network for access by a healthcare provider.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of screening a segment of a lower extremity of a user for skin disturbances, wounds, ulcers, and other signs of disease, the method comprising: positioning at least a portion of the segment of a lower extremity of the user on a lower extremity support platform; activating a foot screening assist program on a user interface of a mobile computing device; positioning the mobile computing device on a camera stabilizer platform; providing an initiation command to the mobile computing device to initiate a capture of one or more digital images of at least a portion of the segment of the lower extremity of the user; retrieving the mobile computing device from the camera stabilizer platform; and storing the one or more digital images in a database that may be accessed for comparison of the one or more digital images to previous images of the segment of the lower extremity of the patient or for further review by a clinician.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the initiation command is a voice command, and wherein providing the voice command includes causing the foot screening assist program to accept a first voice command to initiate a first image capture sequence, and causing the foot screening assist program to accept a second voice command to initiate a second image capture sequence.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the foot screening assist program is configured to provide a user interface on a visual display of the mobile computing device and to cause the user interface to display the one or more digital images of the segment of the lower extremity, including a plantar surface of a foot of the user, for review, augmentation or annotation of the images by the user, and wherein the method further comprises adding user observational data, annotation data, additional images or additional data to the one or more digital images via the user interface.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising causing the foot screening assist program to provide instruction for capturing the one or more images of the segment of the lower extremity of the user.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the capture of the one or more images generates a plurality of captured images, and wherein the method further comprises causing the foot screening assist program to compare two or more of the plurality of captured images.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the capture of the one or more images generates a plurality of captured images and wherein the plurality of captured images includes non-visible data falling outside of the visible light spectrum, and wherein the method further comprises utilizing the non-visible data in evaluating the plurality of captured images to identify a potential wound on the segment of the lower extremity of the user before an emergence of the wound becomes visually detectable.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the capture of the one or more images generates a plurality of captured images, and wherein the method further comprises utilizing a neural network to aid in a classification of the plurality of captured images.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the capture of the one or more images generates a plurality of captured images and wherein the lower extremity support platform includes a standardization indicator, and wherein the method further comprises causing utilization of the standardization indicator in processing the plurality of captured images.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises causing the foot screening assist program to provide a recommended spacing between the lower extremity support platform and the camera stabilizer platform.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the lower extremity support platform and the camera stabilizer platform are operably coupled to one another via one or more extension rods, and wherein the method further comprises causing the foot screening assist program to provide spacing recommendations for the lower extremity support platform and the camera stabilizer platform at one or more distances based on one or more of a set of optical characteristics of the mobile computing device and a set of physical parameters of the camera stabilizer platform.
11. A foot screening system configured to aid in a screening of a distal portion of a lower extremity, including a plantar surface of a foot of a user for skin disturbances, wounds, ulcers, and other signs of disease, with a distal portion of the lower extremity of the user being supported on a lower extremity stabilization structure during the screening, the foot screening system comprising: a camera stabilizer platform configured to support a mobile computing device at a desired angle and distance from the lower extremity stabilization structure; and a screening assist program configured to operate on a mobile computing device having a user interface, the screening assist program being configured for: activating the screening assist program on the user interface after which the mobile computing device is positioned on the camera stabilizer platform; accepting an initiation command consisting of at least one of a voice command, an auditory signal, a Bluetooth remote signal, or a Wi-Fi signal to remotely initiate a capture of one or more digital images of the lower extremity of the user by the mobile computing device; and storing the one or more digital images in a database accessible for visual comparison of the one or more digital images to previous images of the lower extremity of the user.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the camera stabilizer platform configured to enable angular adjustment of a mobile computing device support surface relative to a horizontal frame of reference.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the lower extremity stabilization structure comprises a foot platform operably coupled to the camera stabilizer platform by one or more extension rods, and wherein the screening assist program is further configured to provide spacing recommendations for the lower extremity stabilization structure and the camera stabilizer platform at one or more distances based on one or more of a set of optical characteristics of the mobile computing device and a set of physical parameters of the camera stabilizer platform.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the foot platform includes a foot contacting structure on a top surface of the foot platform adapted to support a foot of the user a distance above the top surface of the foot platform.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the foot platform includes a material cutout in a side of the platform configured to house at least a portion of the camera stabilizer platform in a collapsed, storage position.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the foot platform includes a standardization indicator, and wherein the screening assist program is configured to utilize the standardization indicator in processing the plurality of captured images.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein the lower extremity stabilization structure comprises a wheelchair, and wherein the screening assist program is further configured to provide spacing recommendations for the camera stabilizer platform relative to the wheelchair at one or more distances based on one or more of a set of optical characteristics of the mobile computing device and a set of physical parameters of the camera stabilizer platform.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the initiation command is a voice command, and wherein the screening assist program is configured to accept a first voice command to initiate a first image capture sequence, and a second voice command to initiate a second image capture sequence.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the screening assist program is further configured to display the one or more digital images on the user interface for review, augmentation or annotation of the images by the user, and input and store user observational data, annotation data, additional images or additional data as associated with the one or more digital images.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the capture of the one or more images is configured to generate a plurality of captured images at least one of which includes non-visible data falling outside of the visible light spectrum, and wherein the non-visible data is utilized in evaluating the plurality of captured images to identify a potential wound on the plantar surface of the foot of the user before an emergence of the wound becomes visually detectable.
21. A method of screening a plantar surface of a foot of a user for skin disturbances, wounds, ulcers, and other signs of disease, the method comprising: positioning a distal portion of a lower extremity of the user on a foot platform; providing a remote initiation command consisting of at least one of a voice command, an auditory signal, a Bluetooth remote signal, or a Wi-Fi signal to an imaging source positioned at at least one of on or in a camera stabilization platform operably coupled to the foot platform to initiate a capture of one or more digital images of a plantar surface of a foot of the user; and storing the one or more digital images in a database that may be accessed for comparison of the one or more digital images to previous images of the plantar surface of the foot of the patient or for further review by a clinician.
22. A foot screening system configured to aid in screening a plantar surface of a foot of a user for skin disturbances, wounds, ulcers, and other signs of disease, the foot screening system comprising: a foot platform including a foot contacting structure on a top surface of the foot platform adapted to support a foot of the user a distance above the top surface of the foot platform; a camera stabilizer platform including an angularly adjustable support surface configured to selectively support a mobile computing device at a desired angle relative to a horizontal frame of reference and an adjustable extension mechanism operably coupled to the foot platform and configured to selectively position the camera stabilizer platform at a desired distance from the foot platform; and a screening assist program configured to operate on a user interface of the mobile computing device, the screening assist program being configured to: activate the screening assist program on the user interface; provide instructions to position the mobile computing device on the camera stabilizer platform and the foot of the user on the foot platform and to make any adjustments of the desired angle and desired distance of camera stabilizer platform relative to the foot platform based in part on an image of the foot of the user as imaged by at least one camera in the mobile computing device; accept an initiation command consisting of at least one of a voice command, an auditory signal, a Bluetooth remote signal, or a Wi-Fi signal to remotely initiate a capture of one or more digital images of the foot of the user by the mobile computing device; provide instructions to retrieve the mobile computing device from the camera stabilizer platform; store the one or more digital images in a database accessible for comparison of the one or more digital images to previous images of the foot of the user; display the one or more digital images on the user interface for review, augmentation or annotation of the one or more digital images to be input and stored as observational data, annotation data, additional images or additional data associated with the one or more digital images in the database.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the foot platform includes a material cutout in a side of the platform configured to house at least a portion of the camera stabilizer platform in a collapsed, storage position.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the camera stabilization platform is extendably coupled to the foot platform via one or more telescoping extension rods configured to enable the camera stabilization platform and foot platform to transition between the collapsed, storage position in which the camera stabilization platform is at least partially housed within the foot platform, and an expanded, in use position, in which the camera stabilization platform is positioned at an adjustable distance from the foot platform, wherein in the collapsed, storage position a portion of the camera stabilization platform protrudes from the foot platform to allow the user ease in adjusting the camera stabilization platform position.
25. The system of claim 23, wherein the foot platform includes a handle extending from the top surface of the foot platform to serve as a carrying handle, and wherein the handle may fold into the plane of the top surface of the foot platform while not being carried.
26. The method of claim 22, wherein the foot platform includes a frustum extending from the top surface of the foot platform configured to support at least one of a toe or a heel of the user.
</claims>
</document>
