<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/25,G01N21/27,H04N5/235,H04N9/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FRAUNHOFER
</assignee>

<inventors>
BACKHAUS, ANDREAS
HERZOG, ANDREAS
SEIFFERT, UDO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60915526
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CAPTURING MEASUREMENT IMAGES OF AN OBJECT TO BE MEASURED
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to system (I) for capturing measurement images of an object to be measured, comprising a mobile electronic device, wherein the mobile electronic device (2) comprises: —a housing (5), —a camera (6), integrated into the housing (5), for recording measurement images (39) of an object to be measured (38) within an observation region (20) of the camera (6), —a screen (7), integrated into the housing (5), for displaying images in a light-emitting manner, wherein the screen (7) faces the observation region (20) of the camera (6), —a control unit (8), integrated into the housing (5), said control unit being configured to actuate the screen (7) of the mobile electronic device (2) to display a plurality of different illumination images (23) of a predefined illumination image sequence, wherein the control unit (8) is configured to actuate the camera (6) of the mobile electronic device (2) to capture one measurement image (39) of the object to be measured in each case synchronously with displaying each illumination image (23) of the predefined illumination image sequence. The invention moreover relates to a corresponding method and computer program product.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for capturing measurement images of a measured object, the system comprising: a mobile electronic device, the mobile electronic device comprising: a housing; a camera integrated into the housing, the camera configured to capture measurement images of a measured object within an observation region of the camera; a screen integrated into the housing, the screen configured to display images via emitting light, the screen positioned to face the observation region of the camera; a control unit integrated into the housing, the control unit configured to activate the screen of the mobile electronic device to successively display several different illumination images of a predefined illumination image sequence, the control unit further configured to activate the camera of the mobile electronic device to capture a measurement image of the measured object synchronously with the displaying of each illumination image of the predefined illumination image sequence.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the screen of the mobile electronic device comprises several colour channels; wherein the screen has a channel-specific spectral emission characteristic in each of the colour channels; wherein the screen comprises a multitude of light elements which are arranged in a grid; and wherein each of the colour channels is formed by a subset of the light elements of the screen, whose spectral emission characteristics correspond to the channel-specific spectral emission characteristics of the respective colour channel.
3. The system according to claim 2, wherein the control unit of the mobile electronic device is configured to activate the screen of the mobile electronic device into displaying one or more of the illumination images of the predefined illumination image sequence by way of activating the light elements of only a single colour channel of the screen and by way of activating all activated light elements of this colour channel with a uniform brightness value which is predefined for this colour channel, or by way of activating the light elements of several colour channels and by way of activating all activated light elements with a uniform brightness value which is predefined for the respective colour channel, or by way of activating the light elements of one or more colour channels and by way of activating all active light elements with a gradient which is predefined for the respective colour channel.
4. The system according to claim 2, wherein the screen of the mobile electronic device comprises a red colour channel, a green colour channel, and a blue colour channel; wherein the illumination sequence comprises a red illumination image, a green illumination image, and a blue illumination image; and wherein the control unit of the mobile electronic device is configured to activate the screen by: displaying the red illumination image by way of activating the light elements of only the red colour channel of the screen and by way of activating all activated light elements of the red colour channel with a uniform brightness value which is predefined for the red colour channel; displaying the green illumination image by way of activating the light elements of only the green colour channel of the screen and by way of activating all activated light elements of the green colour channel with a uniform brightness value which is predefined for the green colour channel; and displaying the blue illumination image by way of activating the light elements of only the blue colour channel of the screen and by way of activating all activated light elements of the blue colour channel with a uniform brightness value which is predefined for the blue colour channel.
5. The system according to claim 1, wherein the following image characteristics of each illumination image of the predefined illumination image sequence are predefined: a spectral composition of the light which is emitted by the screen on displaying the respective illumination image, for each colour channel of the screen, a uniform brightness value inasmuch as this claim relates back to one of the claims 2 to 4, a screen region which is filled out by the respective illumination image, and an arrangement of a screen region which is filled out by the respective illumination image, within the total image area of the screen.
6. The system according to claim 1, wherein each of the illumination images fills out only a part-region of the total image area of the screen; and wherein the filled-out part-regions of the illumination images differ from one another in their arrangement on the total image area of the screen.
7. The system according to claim 6, wherein the total image area of the screen comprises an upper edge; wherein the filled-out part-regions of the illumination images differ from one another in their distance from the upper edge of the total image area of the screen; and wherein the lens is arranged above the upper edge of the total image area of the screen.
8. The system according to claim 1, wherein the system comprises at least one data memory in which illumination parameters which partly or completely define the predefined illumination image sequence are stored; and wherein the control unit of the mobile electronic device is configured to retrieve the illumination parameters which are stored in the at least one data memory, from the data memory and to determine the predefined illumination image sequence on the basis of the retrieved illumination parameters.
9. The system according to claim 1, wherein the camera of the mobile electronic device comprises several different colour channels; wherein the camera has a channel-specific spectral sensitivity for each of the colour channels; wherein the camera comprises an image sensor which comprises a multitude of sensor elements which are arranged in a grid; and wherein each of the colour channels of the camera is formed by a subset of the sensor elements of the image sensor, whose spectral sensitivities correspond to the channel-specific sensitivity of the respective colour channel of the camera.
10. The system according to claim 9, wherein the camera of the mobile electronic device comprises a red colour channel, a green colour channel, and a blue colour channel.
11. The system according to claim 1, wherein each of the measurement images comprises a multitude of image points as well as image data which is assigned to the image points; and wherein the system comprises an evaluation unit which is configured to merge the image points of the measurement images and to group the image data of merged image points into measurement data sets of the respective merged image points.
12. The system according to claim 11, wherein the evaluation unit is configured to merge the image points of the measurement images by way of an image registration of the measurement images.
13. A system according to claim 11, wherein the evaluation unit is configured to evaluate the measurement data sets by way of an algorithm which has been calibrated or trained by way of machine learning.
14. The system according to claim 13, wherein the algorithm has been trained by way of a monitored learning method or by way of a non-monitored learning method.
15. The system according to claim 11, wherein the evaluation unit is configured to evaluate the measurement data sets by way of a classification method.
16. The system according to claim 11, wherein the evaluation unit is configured to evaluate the measurement data sets by way of an artificial neural network.
17. The system according to claim 11, wherein the evaluation unit is configured to compare each of the measurement data sets with at least one predefined reference data set.
18. The system according to claim 11, wherein the evaluation unit is configured to determine at least one reflection characteristic of the measured object from the measurement data sets.
19. The system according to claim 18, wherein the evaluation unit is configured to compare the at least one determined reflection characteristics of the measured object with at least one predefined reference reflection characteristic.
20. The system according to claim 11, wherein the screen comprises M colour channels and the camera comprises N colour channels; wherein M≥1 and N>1; wherein each measurement data set comprises at least M×N measurement values; and wherein the M×N measurement values correspond to M×N different combinations of the colour channels of the screen with the colour channels of the camera.
21. The system according to claim 1, wherein the mobile electronic device comprises a user interface; wherein the predefined illumination image sequence can be set via the user interface; wherein a selection between different predefined illumination image sequences is rendered possible by way of the user interface; wherein a selection between different measured objects and between different characteristics of a measured object which are of interest is rendered possible by way of the user interface; and wherein the control device is configured to select a predefined illumination image sequence between several stored predefined illumination image sequences in dependence on the made selection of a measured object and of a characteristic of interest.
22. The system according to claim 1, wherein the mobile device is switchable into a calibration mode; wherein the mobile device is configured, in the calibration mode, to capture the mentioned measurement images of the calibration normal and carry out a calibration of the mobile device; and wherein the calibration of the mobile device include a calibration of the camera and a calibration of the screen, using the measurement images of the calibration normal and of a stored reference data set which belongs to the calibration normal.
23. The system according to claim 1, wherein the screen is a touchscreen; and wherein the mobile device is a smartphone or a tablet computer.
24. 24-26. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
