<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-11-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L5/00,H04W64/00,H04W72/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
AT&T MOBILITY II
</assignee>

<inventors>
HENDERSON, THOMAS W.
HETRICK, JEROME
HRISTOV, HRISTO
HUBER, KURT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58664185
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FACILITATION OF CHANNEL SELECTION WITHIN A WIRELESS NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
A more efficient network can be achieved using channel allocation strategies within a wireless network. A network device can receive several data points from a mobile device including resource request data, access condition data, and location data. Once the network device has received the aforementioned data points, the network device can identify channels that are conducive to a heightened quality of service for a resource being requested based on a signal attenuation associated with the channel. The network device can then facilitate a channel selection in response to an assessment of the data points and identifying a channel for the resource.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a wireless network device comprising a processor, first location data representative of a first location of a mobile device, wherein the first location is closer to the wireless network device than a first previous location of the mobile device; identifying, by the wireless network device, a channel based on an attenuation of a signal of the channel and a resource request of the mobile device; identifying, by the wireless network device, a first priority associated with the channel; based on the resource request from the mobile device, re-identifying, by the wireless network device, the first priority as a second priority associated with the channel, the second priority being different from the first priority, wherein the re-identifying comprises labeling the channel as a primary channel comprising upload and download capabilities; and based on the first location of the mobile device and the attenuation of the signal of the mobile device, selecting, by the wireless network device, the channel for a communication between the mobile device and the wireless network device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the wireless network device is a first wireless network device, wherein the mobile device is a first mobile device, and further comprising: receiving, by the first wireless network device, second location data representative of a second location of a second mobile device, wherein the second location is closer to a second wireless network device than a second previous location of the second mobile device.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the resource request comprises a request for a voice call.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the wireless network device of a wireless network, the resource request for the resource from the mobile device.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: based on the first location data of the mobile device and third location data of a first base station device, determining, by the wireless network device, a distance between the mobile device and the first base station device.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining, by the wireless network device, the distance of the mobile device relative to the first base station device and a second base station device based on the first location of the mobile device, the third location data related to the first base station device, and fourth location data related to the second base station device.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the wireless network device from the mobile device, condition data related to a condition of access to wireless network devices of the wireless network.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the channel comprises labeling the channel as a potential channel for selection.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the resource request comprises a request for a video call.
10. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving first location data representative of a first location of a first mobile device and second location data representative of a second location of a second mobile device, wherein the first location is closer to a first wireless network device than a first previous location of the first mobile device, and wherein the second location is closer to a second wireless network device than a second previous location of the second mobile device; determining a first channel, based on a first signal attenuation related to the first channel and based on a resource request from the first mobile device, for the first mobile device; in response to the resource request, modifying a priority label associated with the first channel from a first label to a second label, wherein the modifying comprises: labeling the first channel as a primary channel comprising upload capabilities and download capabilities; and labeling a second channel as a secondary channel comprising the download capabilities; based on the first signal attenuation and a first analysis of the first location data associated with the first mobile device and the resource request from the first mobile device, facilitating a first channel selection; and facilitating a second channel selection based on a second signal attenuation and a second analysis of the second location data associated with the second mobile device and the resource request from the second mobile device.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the resource request is a first resource request, and wherein the facilitating the second channel selection comprises labeling the second channel based on the second resource request.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise: determining the second channel, based on a second signal attenuation related to the second channel and based on a second resource request from the second mobile device, for the second mobile device.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the resource request is initiated in response to initiating a video call.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the resource request is initiated in response to initiating a voice call.
15. A machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving location data representative of a location of user equipment, wherein the location is closer to a base station device than a previous location of the user equipment; based on a first signal attenuation of a first channel and the location data, identifying the first channel; based on resource request data, identifying a first priority associated with the first channel and a first; based on a second signal attenuation of a second channel and the location data, identifying the second channel; based on an indication that a first bandwidth associated with the second channel is higher than a second bandwidth associated with the first channel, modifying the first priority to a second priority, different than the first priority, to be associated with the first channel, wherein the modifying comprises labeling the first priority of the second channel as a secondary channel comprising download capabilities; and in response to the labeling the first priority of the second channel as the secondary channel, facilitating a selection of an aggregate channel for communication between the user equipment and the base station device.
16. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: labeling the first channel as a primary channel comprising upload and download capabilities.
17. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: aggregating the first channel and the second channel, resulting in the aggregate channel.
18. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: labeling a third channel as a tertiary channel comprising upload capabilities.
19. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the resource request data is generated in response to initiating a video call.
20. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the resource request data is generated in response to initiating a voice call.
</claims>
</document>
