<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02,H04L29/06,H04L9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
EDWARDS, JOSHUA
BENKREIRA, ABDELKADAR M'HAMED
CARROLL, WILLIAM
BULGAKOV, MYKHAYLO
VUKICH, ADAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70850205
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IDENTIFICATION OF TARGETS FOR A CAMPAIGN BY REFERENCING A BLOCKCHAIN AND/OR A DISTRIBUTED SYSTEM FILE SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A device, that is part of a network of nodes that has access to a blockchain, may receive, from a user device associated with an entity, a request for campaign information for a campaign. The request may include data identifying campaign parameters. The device may interact with smart contracts associated with the blockchain to identify individuals to target for the campaign. The smart contracts may be configured to receive the campaign parameters as input and to output an indication of whether campaign preferences are compatible with the campaign parameters. The device may generate the campaign information to include information identifying the individuals targeted for the campaign and information identifying particular campaign preferences found to be compatible with particular campaign parameters. The device may provide the campaign information to the user device to permit the user device to use the campaign information to target the individuals for the campaign.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: identifying, by one or more devices, one or more smart contracts that use a distributed ledger that is accessible to a network of devices; providing, by the one or more devices and as input to the one or more smart contracts, one or more parameters, associated with a request, to cause the one or more smart contracts to output values indicating whether preferences are compatible with the one or more parameters; identifying, by the one or more devices, one or more individuals based on the values indicating whether the preferences are compatible with the one or more parameters; generating, by the one or more devices, information based on identifying the one or more individuals; and providing, by the one or more devices, the information to a device associated with the request.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more individuals comprises: determining that a threshold number of the preferences is compatible with the one or more parameters; and identifying, by the one or more devices, one or more individuals based on determining that the threshold number of the preferences is compatible with the one or more parameters.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the preferences comprises one or more of: a first preference indicating whether an individual, of the one or more individuals, consents to sharing of personal information of the individual with a particular type of entity, a second preference indicating a time period or a group of time periods indicated by the individual, or a third preference indicating what type of content is permitted to be shared.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the information comprises one or more of: information identifying the one or more individuals, or information identifying one or more particular preferences, of the preferences, that are compatible with the one or more parameters.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving, from a user device, preferences data identifying the preferences for a group of individuals that include the one or more individuals; and generating, based on receiving the preferences data, the one or more smart contracts for the group of individuals.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating the one or more smart contracts; and providing the one or more smart contracts to a blockchain associated with the distributed ledger.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving the request from the device, wherein the request includes data identifying the one or more parameters.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more devices are part of the network of devices.
9. A system, comprising: one or more memories; and one or more processors communicatively coupled to the one or more memories, configured to: provide, as input to one or more smart contracts, one or more parameters to cause the one or more smart contracts to output values indicating whether preferences are compatible with the one or more parameters; identify one or more individuals based on determining the values indicating whether the preferences are compatible with the one or more parameters; generate information based on identifying the one or more individuals; and provide the information to a device.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more individuals have a threshold number of the preferences that are compatible with the one or more parameters.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more processors, when providing the information, are configured to: provide the information to a user device to permit the user device to use the information for the one or more individuals.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: receive preferences data identifying the preferences for a group of individuals that include the one or more individuals; and generate, based on receiving the preferences data, the one or more smart contracts for the group of individuals.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: generate the one or more smart contracts; and provide the one or more smart contracts to a blockchain associated with the one or more smart contracts.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: receive, from the device, a request for the information, wherein the request includes data identifying the one or more parameters.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the system is part of a network of devices that has access to a distributed ledger associated with the one or more smart contracts.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions comprising: one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: identify one or more smart contracts that use a distributed ledger that is accessible to a network of devices; provide, as input to the one or more smart contracts, one or more parameters to cause the one or more smart contracts to output values indicating whether preferences are compatible with the one or more parameters; determine that one or more of the preferences are compatible with the one or more parameters; and provide information associated with one or more individuals based on determining that the one or more of the preferences are compatible with the one or more parameters.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the one or more individuals have a threshold number of the preferences that are compatible with the one or more parameters.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the one or more instructions further cause the one or more processors to: identify the one or more individuals based on determining that a threshold number of the preferences is compatible with the one or more parameters, wherein the threshold number of the preferences is the one or more of the preferences; generate the information based on identifying the one or more individuals.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the preferences include one or more of: information indicating one or more entities that are permitted to access personal information regarding an individual of the one or more individuals, information identifying one or more modes of communication which are permitted to be used with regards to the individual, or information identifying one or more time periods indicated by the individual.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the information comprises one or more of: information identifying the one or more individuals, or information identifying the one or more of the preferences.
</claims>
</document>
