<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10K11/178,H04B15/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
GARUDADRI, HARINATH
LEE, CHING-HUA
RAO, BHASKAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65439319
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Sparsity-aware adaptive feedback cancellation
</title>

<abstract>
A signal processing device comprises: input transducer(s) configured to convert input(s) to an input signal; output transducer(s) configured to convert an output signal to output(s); a signal processing circuit configured to at least subtract a feedback estimation signal from the input signal to produce a feedback compensated signal; and an adaptive feedback estimator. The adaptive feedback estimator comprises processor(s) and machine readable medium(s) collectively comprising instructions configured to cause the processor(s) to: estimate feedback path characteristic(s); construct an adaptive feedback cancellation filter based at least in part on the feedback path characteristic(s); select a value for variable p in a diversity measure norm; compute an update rule for the adaptive feedback cancellation filter, the update rule based on the diversity measure norm; apply the update rule to the adaptive feedback cancellation filter; and generate the feedback estimation signal through employment of the adaptive feedback cancellation filter on the output signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A signal processing device comprising: a) at least one input transducer configured to convert an input to an input signal; b) at least one output transducer configured to convert an output signal to an output; c) a signal processing circuit configured to at least amplify at least a portion of a feedback compensated signal to generate the output signal; and d) an adaptive feedback estimator comprising: i) at least one processor; and ii) at least one machine readable medium collectively comprising instructions configured to cause the at least one processor to: (1) estimate at least one feedback path characteristic; (2) construct an adaptive feedback cancellation filter based at least in part on the at least one feedback path characteristic; (3) select a value for variable p in a diversity measure norm, the value not equal to 1 or 2; (4) compute an update rule for the adaptive feedback cancellation filter, the update rule based on the diversity measure norm; (5) apply the update rule to the adaptive feedback cancellation filter; (6) generate a feedback estimation signal through employment of the adaptive feedback cancellation filter on the output signal; and (7) subtract the feedback estimation signal from the input signal to produce the feedback compensated signal.
2. The device according to claim 1, wherein the at least one processor comprises a first processor and a second processor, and wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the first processor to: a) generate the feedback estimation signal through employment of the adaptive feedback cancellation filter on the output signal; and b) subtract the feedback estimation signal from the input signal to produce the feedback compensated signal; and wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the second processor to: c) estimate the at least one feedback path characteristic; d) construct the adaptive feedback cancellation filter based at least in part on the at least one feedback path characteristic; e) select the value for the variable p in the diversity measure norm, the value not equal to 1 or 2; f) compute the update rule for the adaptive feedback cancellation filter, the update rule based on the diversity measure norm; and g) apply the update rule to the adaptive feedback cancellation filter.
3. The device according to claim 2, wherein the first processor is configured to process at a first rate.
4. The device according to claim 3, wherein the second processor is configured to process at a second rate greater than the first rate.
5. The device according to claim 2, wherein the first processor comprises a Digital Signal Processor (DSP).
6. The device according to claim 2, wherein the second processor comprises an Advanced RISC Machine (ARM).
7. The device according to claim 1, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to select the value from a plurality of values, the plurality of values based on measurements of at least one feedback path.
8. The device according to claim 1, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to select the value from a plurality of values, the plurality of values based on measurements of at least one feedback path in at least one environment.
9. The device according to claim 1, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to compute a sparsity score.
10. The device according to claim 9, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to employ the sparsity score to select the value from a plurality of values.
11. The device according to claim 1, wherein the update rule is configured to compute a weight for a step size for each of a plurality of filter taps of the adaptive feedback cancellation filter.
12. The device according to claim 1, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to compute the update rule based on a sparsity score and apply the update rule to each coefficient of the adaptive feedback cancellation filter.
13. A signal processing system comprising: a) at least one input transducer configured to convert an input to an input signal; b) at least one output transducer configured to convert an output signal to an output; and c) an adaptive feedback estimator comprising: i) at least one processor; and ii) at least one machine readable medium collectively comprising instructions configured to cause the at least one processor to: (1) estimate at least one feedback path characteristic; (2) construct an adaptive feedback cancellation filter based at least in part on the at least one feedback path characteristic; (3) select a value for variable p in a diversity measure norm, the value not equal to 1 or 2; (4) compute an update rule for the adaptive feedback cancellation filter, the update rule based on the diversity measure norm; (5) apply the update rule to the adaptive feedback cancellation filter; (6) generate a feedback estimation signal through employment of the adaptive feedback cancellation filter on the output signal; and (7) subtract the feedback estimation signal from the input signal to produce a feedback compensated signal.
14. The system according to claim 13, wherein the at least one processor comprises a first processor and a second processor, and wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the first processor to: a) generate the feedback estimation signal through employment of the adaptive feedback cancellation filter on the output signal; and b) subtract the feedback estimation signal from the input signal to produce the feedback compensated signal; and wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the second processor to: c) estimate the at least one feedback path characteristic; d) construct the adaptive feedback cancellation filter based at least in part on the at least one feedback path characteristic; e) select the value for the variable p in the diversity measure norm, the value not equal to 1 or 2; f) compute the update rule for the adaptive feedback cancellation filter, the update rule based on the diversity measure norm; and g) apply the update rule to the adaptive feedback cancellation filter.
15. The device according to claim 13, wherein the first processor is configured to process at a first rate.
16. The device according to claim 15, wherein the second processor is configured to process at a second rate greater than the first rate.
17. The device according to claim 13, wherein the first processor comprises a Digital Signal Processor (DSP).
18. The device according to claim 13, wherein the second processor comprises an Advanced RISC Machine (ARM).
19. The system according to claim 13, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to select the value from a plurality of values, the plurality of values based on measurements of at least one feedback path.
20. The system according to claim 13, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to select the value from a plurality of values, the plurality of values based on measurements of at least one feedback path in at least one environment.
21. The system according to claim 13, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to compute a sparsity score.
22. The device according to claim 21, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to employ the sparsity score to select the value from a plurality of values.
23. The system according to claim 13, wherein the update rule is configured to compute a weight for a step size for each of a plurality of filter taps of the adaptive feedback cancellation filter.
24. The system according to claim 13, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to compute the update rule based on a sparsity score and apply the update rule to each coefficient of the adaptive feedback cancellation filter.
25. An adaptive feedback estimator comprising: a) at least one processor; and b) at least one machine readable medium collectively comprising instructions configured to cause the at least one processor to: i) estimate at least one feedback path characteristic of a feedback path; ii) construct an adaptive feedback cancellation filter based at least in part on the at least one feedback path characteristic; iii) select a value for variable p in a diversity measure norm, the value not equal to 1 or 2; iv) compute an update rule for the adaptive feedback cancellation filter, the update rule based on the diversity measure norm; and v) apply the update rule to the adaptive feedback cancellation filter.
26. The estimator according to claim 25, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to select the value from a plurality of values, the plurality of values based on measurements of at least one feedback path.
27. The estimator according to claim 25, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to select the value from a plurality of values, the plurality of values based on measurements of at least one feedback path in at least one environment.
28. The estimator according to claim 25, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to compute a sparsity score.
29. The device according to claim 28, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to employ the sparsity score to select the value from a plurality of values.
30. The estimator according to claim 25, wherein the update rule is configured to compute a weight to a step size for each of a plurality of filter taps of the adaptive feedback cancellation filter.
31. The estimator according to claim 25, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to compute the update rule based on a sparsity score and apply the update rule to each coefficient of the adaptive feedback cancellation filter.
32. A method of operating a least mean square adaptive filtering algorithm, the improvement comprising updating the least mean square adaptive filtering algorithm, comprising: a) selecting a value for a variable p in a diversity measure norm, the value not equal to 1 or 2; b) computing an update rule for the least mean square adaptive filter, the update rule based on the diversity measure norm; c) applying the update rule to the least mean square adaptive filter; d) generating an estimation signal through employment of the least mean square adaptive filter on the output signal; and e) subtracting the estimation signal from the input signal to produce a modified signal.
</claims>
</document>
