<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06T9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SRINIVASA, NARAYAN
CAO, YONGQIANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66994255
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FEEDBACK SIGNALING TO FACILITATE DATA CLASSIFICATION FUNCTIONALITY OF A SPIKING NEURAL NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques and mechanisms to facilitate a data classification functionality by communicating feedback signals with a spiked neural network. In an embodiment, input signaling, provided to the spiking neural network, results in one or more output spike trains which are indicative of that the input signaling corresponds to a particular data type. Based on the one or more output spike trains, feedback signals are variously communicated each to a respective node of the spiking neural network. The feedback signals variously control signal response characteristics of the nodes. Subsequent output signaling by the spiking neural network, in further response the input signaling, is improved based on the feedback control of nodes' signal responses. In another embodiment, the feedback signals are used to adjust synaptic weight values during training of the spiking neural network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-24. (canceled)
25. A computer device for pattern recognition using a spiking neural network, the computer device comprising circuitry to: receive an input image comprising a plurality of pixels; encode the input image to generate encoded image data; apply a trained spiking neural network to the encoded image data, wherein one or more nodes of the trained spiking neural network each receive a respective spiked input signal based on the encoded image data; generate one or more spiked output signals based on the applying the trained spiking neural network to the encoded image data; generate one or more feedback signals based on the spiked output signals; and adjust, based on the one or more feedback signals, synapse weights each associated with a respective node of the trained spiking neural network.
26. The computer device of claim 25, further comprising circuitry to: train the spiking neural network based on one or more reference images each representing a low-noise representation of a respective object which the spiking neural network is to be configured to recognize.
27. The computer device of claim 26, wherein the circuitry to train the spiking neural network comprises circuitry to perform a forward training stage and a feedback training stage each based on the one or more reference images.
28. The computer device of claim 27, wherein the circuitry to perform the forward training stage comprises circuitry to: for each reference image of the one or more reference images: encode the reference image to generate encoded reference image data including a respective one or more reference spiked input signal; receive the respective one or more reference spiked input signal with the plurality of nodes of the spiking neural network; and generate with the spiked neural network a respective one or more reference spiked output signals based on the respective one or more reference spiked input signal.
29. The computer device of claim 28, wherein, for each reference image of the one or more reference images: based on the respective one or more reference spiked input signals, other spiked signals are each communicated between a respective two nodes of the spiking neural network via a synapse that connects the respective two nodes to each other.
30. The computer device of claim 27, wherein the circuitry to perform the forward training stage further comprises circuitry to: adjust one or more weights each associated with a respective synapse of the spiking neural network, wherein the one or more weights are adjusted each based on a timing of signals spiking in the spiking neural network during the forward training stage.
31. The computer device of claim 27, wherein the circuitry to perform the feedback training stage comprises circuitry to: receive one or more reference spiked output signals generated by the forward training stage; and generate a feedback signal based on the one or more reference spiked output signals generated by the forward training stage.
32. The computer device of claim 27, wherein the circuitry to perform the feedback training stage comprises circuitry to: adjust one or more weights each associated with a respective synapse of the spiking neural network, wherein the one or more weights are adjusted each based on a timing of signals spiking in the spiking neural network during the feedback training stage.
33. At least one machine readable medium including instructions that, when executed by a machine, cause the machine to perform operations for pattern recognition using a spiking neural network, the operations comprising: receiving an input image comprising a plurality of pixels; encoding the input image to generate encoded image data; applying a trained spiking neural network to the encoded image data, wherein one or more nodes of the trained spiking neural network each receive a respective spiked input signal based on the encoded image data; generating one or more spiked output signals based on the applying the trained spiking neural network to the encoded image data; generating one or more feedback signals based on the spiked output signals; and based on the one or more feedback signals, adjusting synapse weights each associated with a respective node of the trained spiking neural network.
34. The at least one machine readable medium of claim 33, the operations further comprising: training the spiking neural network based on one or more reference images each representing a low-noise representation of a respective object which the spiking neural network is to be configured to recognize.
35. The at least one machine readable medium of claim 34, wherein training the spiking neural network comprises a forward training stage and a feedback training stage each based on the one or more reference images.
36. The at least one machine readable medium of claim 35, wherein the forward training stage comprises: for each reference image of the one or more reference images: encoding the reference image to generate encoded reference image data including a respective one or more reference spiked input signal; receiving the respective one or more reference spiked input signal with the plurality of nodes of the spiking neural network; and generating with the spiked neural network a respective one or more reference spiked output signals based on the respective one or more reference spiked input signal.
37. The at least one machine readable medium of claim 36, wherein, for each reference image of the one or more reference images: based on the respective one or more reference spiked input signals, other spiked signals are each communicated between a respective two nodes of the spiking neural network via a synapse that connects the respective two nodes to each other.
38. The at least one machine readable medium of claim 35, wherein the forward training stage further comprises: adjusting one or more weights each associated with a respective synapse of the spiking neural network, wherein the one or more weights are adjusted each based on a timing of signals spiking in the spiking neural network during the forward training stage.
39. The at least one machine readable medium of claim 35, wherein the feedback training stage comprises: receiving one or more reference spiked output signals generated by the forward training stage; and generating a feedback signal based on the one or more reference spiked output signals generated by the forward training stage.
40. The at least one machine readable medium of claim 35, wherein the feedback training stage comprises: adjusting one or more weights each associated with a respective synapse of the spiking neural network, wherein the one or more weights are adjusted each based on a timing of signals spiking in the spiking neural network during the feedback training stage.
41. A computer method for pattern recognition using a spiking neural network, the method comprising: receiving an input image comprising a plurality of pixels; encoding the input image to generate encoded image data; applying a trained spiking neural network to the encoded image data, wherein one or more nodes of the trained spiking neural network each receive a respective spiked input signal based on the encoded image data; generating one or more spiked output signals based on the applying the trained spiking neural network to the encoded image data; generating one or more feedback signals based on the spiked output signals; and based on the one or more feedback signals, adjusting synapse weights each associated with a respective node of the trained spiking neural network.
42. The method of claim 41, further comprising: training the spiking neural network based on one or more reference images each representing a low-noise representation of a respective object which the spiking neural network is to be configured to recognize.
43. The method of claim 42, wherein training the spiking neural network comprises a forward training stage and a feedback training stage each based on the one or more reference images.
44. The method of claim 43, wherein the forward training stage comprises: for each reference image of the one or more reference images: encoding the reference image to generate encoded reference image data including a respective one or more reference spiked input signal; receiving the respective one or more reference spiked input signal with the plurality of nodes of the spiking neural network; and generating with the spiked neural network a respective one or more reference spiked output signals based on the respective one or more reference spiked input signal.
45. The method of claim 44, wherein, for each reference image of the one or more reference images: based on the respective one or more reference spiked input signals, other spiked signals are each communicated between a respective two nodes of the spiking neural network via a synapse that connects the respective two nodes to each other.
46. The method of claim 43, wherein the forward training stage further comprises: adjusting one or more weights each associated with a respective synapse of the spiking neural network, wherein the one or more weights are adjusted each based on a timing of signals spiking in the spiking neural network during the forward training stage.
47. The method of claim 43, wherein the feedback training stage comprises: receiving one or more reference spiked output signals generated by the forward training stage; and generating a feedback signal based on the one or more reference spiked output signals generated by the forward training stage.
48. The method of claim 43, wherein the feedback training stage comprises: adjusting one or more weights each associated with a respective synapse of the spiking neural network, wherein the one or more weights are adjusted each based on a timing of signals spiking in the spiking neural network during the feedback training stage.
</claims>
</document>
