<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/45,G16H20/40,G16H30/40,G16H40/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERB SURGICAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
GARCIA KILROY, PABLO
VENKATARAMAN, JAGADISH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73456113
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR COMBINING VIDEO, IMAGE, AND AUDIO DATA WITH TEXT DATA FOR COMPREHENSIVE DATA ANALYTICS
</title>

<abstract>
This patent disclosure provides various embodiments of combining multiple modalities of non-text surgical data of different formats, in particular in forms of videos, images, and audios in a meaningful manner so that the combined data from the multiple modalities are compatible with text data. In some embodiments, prior to combining the multiple modalities of surgical data, multiple segmentation engines are used to segment and convert a corresponding modality of surgical data into a corresponding set of metrics and parameters. The multiple sets of metrics and parameters corresponding to the multiple modalities are then combined to generate a combined feature set. The combined feature set can be provided to a data analytics tool for performing comprehensive data analyses on the combined feature set to generate one or more predictions for the surgical procedure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for combining multiple modalities of surgical data for performing comprehensive data analytics for a surgical procedure, the method comprising: receiving two or more modalities of surgical data from different data sources; for each of the two or more modalities of surgical data, applying a corresponding segmentation engine to convert the corresponding modality of surgical data into a corresponding set of text features; combining the two or more sets of text features corresponding to the two or more modalities to generate a combined feature set; and providing the combined feature set to a data analytics tool for performing comprehensive data analyses on the combined feature set to generate one or more predictions for the surgical procedure.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the two or more modalities of surgical data is a form of non-text surgical data.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the two or more modalities of surgical data include at least two of the following modalities: video data, image data, and audio data.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the video data include one or more of the following: real-time endoscopy procedure videos; offline endoscopy procedure videos; and surgical procedure videos captured by one or more operating room cameras.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the image data include one or more of: X-ray images, computed tomography (CT) images, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) images, ultrasonic images, and other radiographic images.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the image data include one or more of: medical images generated during a preoperative stage of the surgical procedure; medical images generated during an intraoperative stage of the surgical procedure; and medical images generated during a postoperative time period of the surgical procedure.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the audio data include recorded audios of a surgeon narrating or discussing the surgical procedure regarding one or more of the following: an unusual anatomy; an anomaly in the surgical procedure; a landmark event; and a complication.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein applying a video segmentation engine to convert the video data into a corresponding set of text features includes: segmenting an endoscope video of the surgical procedure into a set of video segments corresponding to a set of surgical phases; and extracting one or more surgical metrics and parameters from each video segment in the set of video segments.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein applying an audio segmentation engine to convert the audio data into a corresponding set of text features includes: segmenting a procedure audio of the surgical procedure into a set of audio segments corresponding to the set of surgical phases; and extracting one or more surgical metrics and parameters from each audio segment in the set of audio segments using a natural-language processing model.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein after combining the two or more sets of text features to generate the combined feature set, the method further comprises: combining the combined feature set with a set of text data associated with the surgical procedure to form a comprehensive feature set for the surgical procedure; and providing the comprehensive feature set to the data analytics tool in place of the combined feature set for performing comprehensive data analyses on the comprehensive feature set to generate one or more predictions for the surgical procedure.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein prior to applying the corresponding segmentation engine to convert the corresponding modality of surgical data into the corresponding set of text features, the method further includes: performing a time-synchronization on the two or more modalities of surgical data to generate time-synchronized surgical data for each of the two or more modalities; and wherein applying the corresponding segmentation engine to convert the corresponding modality of surgical data includes applying the corresponding segmentation engine on the corresponding time-synchronized surgical data.
12. A system for combining multiple modalities of surgical data for performing comprehensive data analytics for a surgical procedure, the system comprising: one or more processors; a memory coupled to the one or more processors; a receiving module configured to receive two or more modalities of surgical data from different data sources; two or more segmentation engines corresponding to the two or more modalities of surgical data, wherein each segmentation engine is configured to convert the corresponding modality of surgical data into a corresponding set of features; and a combining module configured to combine the two or more sets of features corresponding to the two or more modalities to generate a combined feature set, wherein the combined feature set is provided to a data analytics tool for performing comprehensive data analyses on the combined feature set to generate one or more predictions for the surgical procedure.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the two or more modalities of surgical data include at least two of the following modalities: video data, image data, and audio data.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the two or more segmentation engines include a video segmentation engine which is configured to convert the video data into the corresponding set of text features by: segmenting an endoscope video of the surgical procedure into a set of video segments corresponding to a set of surgical phases; and extracting one or more surgical metrics and parameters from each video segment in the set of video segments.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the two or more segmentation engines include an audio segmentation engine which is configured to convert the audio data into the corresponding set of text features by: segmenting a procedure audio of the surgical procedure into a set of audio segments corresponding to the set of surgical phases; and extracting one or more surgical metrics and parameters from each audio segment in the set of audio segments using a natural-language processing model.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the combining module is further configured to: combine the combined feature set with a set of text data associated with the surgical procedure to form a comprehensive feature set for the surgical procedure; and provide the comprehensive feature set to the data analytics tool in place of the combined feature set for performing comprehensive data analyses on the comprehensive feature set to generate one or more predictions for the surgical procedure.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein the system further includes a synchronization module which is configured to perform a time-synchronization on the two or more modalities of surgical data to generate time-synchronized surgical data for each of the two or more modalities; and wherein converting the corresponding modality of surgical data using the corresponding segmentation engine includes applying the corresponding segmentation engine on the corresponding time-synchronized surgical data.
18. An apparatus for combining multiple modalities of surgical data for performing comprehensive data analytics for a surgical procedure, the apparatus comprising: a receiving module configured to receive two or more modalities of surgical data from different data sources; a segmentation engine corresponding to each of the two or more modalities of surgical data and configured to segment a respective modality of surgical data into a set of segments corresponding to a set of surgical phases and extract one or more surgical metrics and parameters from each video segment in the set of video segments; and a combining module configured to combine the extracted sets of surgical metrics and parameters corresponding to the two or more modalities to generate a combined feature set, wherein the combining module is further configured to provide the combined feature set to a data analytics tool for performing comprehensive data analyses on the combined feature set to generate one or more predictions for the surgical procedure.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the combining module is further configured to: combine the combined feature set with a set of text data associated with the surgical procedure to form a comprehensive feature set for the surgical procedure; and provide the comprehensive feature set to the data analytics tool in place of the combined feature set for performing comprehensive data analyses on the comprehensive feature set to generate one or more predictions for the surgical procedure.
20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the apparatus further includes a synchronization module which is configured to perform a time-synchronization on the two or more modalities of surgical data to generate time-synchronized surgical data for each of the two or more modalities; and wherein converting the corresponding modality of surgical data using the corresponding segmentation engine includes applying the corresponding segmentation engine on the corresponding time-synchronized surgical data.
</claims>
</document>
