<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/16,G06N20/10,G06N3/063,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LIGHTELLIGENCE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHEN YICHEN
JING LI
KHOURY, MATTHEW RAJA
OU, LONGWU
DANGOVSKI, RUMEN RUMENOV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71837528
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Processing Matrix Operations for Rate Limited Systems
</title>

<abstract>
Data to be processed includes vector element values of an input vector and matrix element values of a model matrix associated with a neural network model. A vector-matrix multiplication module receives a set of matrix element values for performing a vector-matrix multiplication operation. Processing the data includes computing a plurality of intermediate vectors based on element-wise vector multiplication between different subsets of the vector element values and different respective pre-processing vectors. The vector-matrix multiplication module is loaded with a core matrix, and the input vector is multiplied by the model matrix based on separately multiplying each of the intermediate vectors by the loaded core matrix.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for processing data that includes vector element values of an input vector and matrix element values of a model matrix associated with a neural network model, the apparatus comprising: a clock module configured to provide a clock signal associated with the data; a vector-matrix multiplication module configured to receive a set of matrix element values for performing a vector-matrix multiplication operation, wherein the vector-matrix multiplication module has a rate limit characterizing a maximum rate at which the set of matrix element values are able to be loaded between successive vector-matrix multiplication operations; and a computing subsystem configured to process data based on the clock signal, the processing including: computing a plurality of intermediate vectors based on element-wise vector multiplication between different subsets of the vector element values and different respective pre-processing vectors, where the number of cycles of the clock signal used to compute the plurality of intermediate vectors is less than a minimum number of cycles of the clock associated with the rate limit, loading the vector-matrix multiplication module with a core matrix, multiplying the input vector by the model matrix based on separately multiplying each of the intermediate vectors by the loaded core matrix.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the loaded core matrix is multiplied by different intermediate vectors in different cycles of the clock signal.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the intermediate vectors are of length k, and the core matrix is of size k×k.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein k is greater than 31 and smaller than 257.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the rate limit is less than 5 GHz.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the vector-matrix multiplication module comprises optical waveguides and optical amplitude modulators, and at least some of the vector element values are encoded on respective optical signals that are guided by the optical waveguides.
7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the core matrix is loaded into the vector-matrix multiplication module based on setting amplitude modulation levels of one or more of the optical amplitude modulators.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the rate limit is based on a rate at which the amplitude modulation levels are able to be set.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the vector-matrix multiplication module comprises a computing device that operates on electrical signals, and at least some of the vector element values are encoded on respective electrical signals that are received by the computing device.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the core matrix is loaded into the vector-matrix multiplication module based on retrieving the electrical signals from a memory device coupled to the computing device.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the rate limit is based on a rate at which the electrical signals are able to be retrieved from the memory device.
12. A method for processing data that includes vector element values of an input vector and matrix element values of a model matrix associated with a neural network model, the method comprising: providing a clock signal associated with the data; receiving, at a vector-matrix multiplication module, a set of matrix element values for performing a vector-matrix multiplication operation, wherein the vector-matrix multiplication module has a rate limit characterizing a maximum rate at which the set of matrix element values are able to be loaded between successive vector-matrix multiplication operations; and processing data, in a computing subsystem, based on the clock signal, the processing including: computing a plurality of intermediate vectors based on element-wise vector multiplication between different subsets of the vector element values and different respective pre-processing vectors, where the number of cycles of the clock signal used to compute the plurality of intermediate vectors is less than a minimum number of cycles of the clock associated with the rate limit, loading the vector-matrix multiplication module with a core matrix, multiplying the input vector by the model matrix based on separately multiplying each of the intermediate vectors by the loaded core matrix.
13. A method for performing an inference computation using a model matrix associated with a neural network model, the method comprising: receiving a core matrix that includes a set of matrix elements determined based on training of the neural network model; loading the core matrix into a vector-matrix multiplication module; computing a plurality of intermediate vectors based on element-wise vector multiplication between different subsets of vector element values of an input vector and different respective pre-processing vectors determined based on training of the neural network model; and performing vector-matrix multiplication of the input vector by the model matrix based on separately multiplying each of the intermediate vectors by the loaded core matrix.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the model matrix is related to the core matrix and each of the pro-processing vectors such that: the model matrix is formed from two or more submatrices concatenated together, for each submatrix, there is a different corresponding diagonal matrix having diagonal entries equal to vector element values of different pre-processing vectors, and each submatrix is equal to the core matrix multiplied by the corresponding diagonal matrix.
15. An apparatus for performing an inference computation using a model matrix associated with a neural network model, the apparatus comprising: a vector-matrix multiplication module configured to receive a core matrix that includes a set of matrix elements determined based on training of the neural network model; circuitry configured to load the core matrix into a vector-matrix multiplication module; and circuitry configured to compute a plurality of intermediate vectors based on element-wise vector multiplication between different subsets of vector element values of an input vector and different respective pre-processing vectors determined based on training of the neural network model; wherein the vector-matrix multiplication module is configured to perform vector-matrix multiplication of the input vector by the model matrix based on separately multiplying each of the intermediate vectors by the loaded core matrix.
16. An apparatus for processing data that includes vector element values of an input vector and matrix element values of a model matrix associated with a neural network model, the apparatus comprising: a vector-matrix multiplication module configured to receive a set of matrix element values for performing a vector-matrix multiplication operation, wherein the vector-matrix multiplication module is configured to perform optical amplitude modulation on values encoded on optical signals based on the set of matrix element values; and a computing subsystem configured to process data encoded on electrical signals, the processing including: computing a plurality of intermediate vectors based on element-wise vector multiplication between different subsets of the vector element values and different respective pre-processing vectors, where the vector element values and the pre-processing vectors are encoded electrical signals, loading the vector-matrix multiplication module with a core matrix, multiplying the input vector by the model matrix based on separately multiplying each of the intermediate vectors by the loaded core matrix.
17. A method for processing data that includes vector element values of an input vector and matrix element values of a model matrix associated with a neural network model, the method comprising: receiving, at a vector-matrix multiplication module, a set of matrix element values for performing a vector-matrix multiplication operation, wherein the vector-matrix multiplication module is configured to perform optical amplitude modulation on values encoded on optical signals based on the set of matrix element values; and processing, in a computing subsystem, data encoded on electrical signals, the processing including: computing a plurality of intermediate vectors based on element-wise vector multiplication between different subsets of the vector element values and different respective pre-processing vectors, where the vector element values and the pre-processing vectors are encoded electrical signals, loading the vector-matrix multiplication module with a core matrix, multiplying the input vector by the model matrix based on separately multiplying each of the intermediate vectors by the loaded core matrix.
</claims>
</document>
