<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/34,H04L12/18,H04L12/24,H04L12/911,H04L12/919
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AVAYA
</assignee>

<inventors>
DELANEY, PAUL
KELLY, EDEL
PORTER, KEZZIA
WASAM, DANUSHKA MIGEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67438335
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System for self-allocating resources
</title>

<abstract>
Complex systems, such as those comprising processing, data storage, and communication resources for processing a plurality of communication and data processing events and types of events, are often caught unaware of outside events or how to respond to such outside events. Providing a system that self-configures in response to external events enables such systems to be proactive in their operations to address increased activity and/or types of activity in response to an external event. The system then self-evaluates, which may identify overages or shortfalls, such that the system self-learns and response more appropriately over time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a plurality of resources, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of recourses comprise a least one of a computer resource comprising a first microprocessor and a first memory for storing instructions for execution by the microprocessor, a communication resource comprising a network interface to a network and selectively enabling communications between a first and second endpoint utilizing the network, or a data storage resource, and wherein the plurality of resources are interconnected for communications therebetween and enable the first endpoint to obtain or provide data to the second endpoint; an event monitor comprising a network interface, microprocessor, and memory for storing instructions for execution by the microprocessor and wherein the event monitoring component is configured to obtain event information from an event source regarding an event; an event assessment processor, comprising a microprocessor and memory for storing instructions for execution by the microprocessor and wherein the event assessment component is configured to determine whether if the obtained event information matches a historic event in the data storage resource; and an event response processor, comprising a microprocessor and memory for storing instructions for execution by the microprocessor and wherein the event response processor is configured to reconfigure the system in accordance with a solution determined from a historic solution associated with the historic event.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the event response processor reconfigures the system comprising, adding at least one unallocated resource, not within the plurality of resources, to become one of the plurality of resources.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the event response processor reconfigures the system comprising, causing at least one operational parameter of at least one of the plurality of resources to enable the first endpoint, not previously able to communicate with a third endpoint, to communicate with the third endpoint.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the second endpoint and the third endpoint differ in one or more of media type, automated versus human-generated communication content, or real-time versus non-real-time communication type.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the system enables the at least one endpoint to obtain or provide data to at the least one other endpoint in a first mode and, after the event response processor reconfigures the system enables the at least one endpoint to obtain or provide data to at the least one other endpoint in a second mode different from the first mode.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the system enables the at least one endpoint to obtain or provide data to at the least one other endpoint in a first mode and, after the event response processor reconfigures the system enables the at least one endpoint to obtain or provide data to at the least one additional endpoint different from the at least one other endpoint.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the solution comprises the second endpoint initiating a communication with the first endpoint.
8. The system of claim 1, further comprising, an evaluation component a microprocessor and memory for storing instructions for execution by the microprocessor and wherein the evaluation component compares the expected performance of the system during the event with an observed performance of the system during the event and causes the solution to be stored with an associated actual-observed performance delta.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein indicia of the obtained event information and solution is stored in the data repository as an additional historic event and associated historic solution.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein: the data storage maintains, with the historic event and historic solution, an actual-observed performance delta indicating a difference in the performance of the system as observed during the historic event while the system was configured in accordance with the historic solution versus the expected performance of the system; and the event response processor further determines the solution in accordance with an actual-observed performance delta associated with the historic event.
11. A method, comprising: utilizing a plurality of resources to provide connectivity between a first and second endpoint, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of recourses comprise a least one of a computer resource, each of the at least one computer resource comprising a first microprocessor and a first memory for storing instructions for execution by the microprocessor, a communication resource comprising a network interface to a network and selectively enabling communications utilizing the network, or a data storage resource, and wherein the plurality of resources are interconnected for communications therebetween and selectively enable the first endpoint to obtain or provide data to the second endpoint; obtaining event information from an event source regarding an event; determining whether the obtained event information matches a historic event; and automatically reconfiguring the resources in accordance with a solution determined from a historic solution associated with the historic event.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein reconfiguring the resources comprises adding at least one unallocated resource, not within the plurality of resources, to become one of the plurality of resources.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein reconfiguring the resources comprises causing at least one operational parameter of at least one of the plurality of resources to enable the first endpoint, not previously able to communicate with a third endpoint, to communicate with the third endpoint.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the second endpoint and the third endpoint differ in one or more of media type, automated versus human-generated communication content, or real-time versus non-real-time communication type.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the solution comprises the second endpoint initiating a communication with the first endpoint.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising storing indicia of the obtained event information and solution is stored in the data repository as an additional historic event and associated historic solution.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising: maintaining an actual-observed performance delta indicating a difference in the performance of the resources as observed during the historic event while the resources were configured in accordance with the historic solution versus the expected performance of the resources; and the event response processor further determines the solution in accordance with an actual-observed performance delta associated with the historic event.
18. A system, comprising: a plurality of resources, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of recourses comprise a least one of a computer resource comprising a first microprocessor and a first memory for storing instructions for execution by the microprocessor, a communication resource comprising a network interface to a network and selectively enabling communications between a first and second endpoint utilizing the network, or a data storage resource, and wherein the plurality of resources are interconnected for communications therebetween and enable the first endpoint to obtain or provide data to the second endpoint; means to obtain event information from an event source regarding an event; means to determine whether if the obtained event information matches a historic event in the data storage resource; and means to reconfigure the resources in accordance with a solution determined from a historic solution associated with the historic event.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the means to obtain event information from an event source regarding an event, further comprise means to monitor event information from the event source.
20. The system of claim, further comprising: means to maintain the historic event and historic solution, an actual-observed performance delta indicating a difference in the performance of the system as observed during the historic event while the system was configured in accordance with the historic solution versus the expected performance of the system; and wherein means to further determine the solution in accordance with an actual-observed performance delta associated with the historic event.
</claims>
</document>
