<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DeepRisk.ai, LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
John, Alvin Babu
Vaidya, Chaitanya Nandkishore
Black, Mathew Robert
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73549967
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PLATFORM FOR DETECTING ABNORMAL ENTITIES AND ACTIVITIES USING MACHINE LEARNING ALGORITHMS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure generally relates to providing accurate and real-time insights into abnormal entities and activities using machine learning algorithms. An exemplary computer-enabled method comprises receiving a set of input data, wherein the set of input data is associated with an entity; automatically obtaining, based on the received set of input data, a set of derived data, wherein the set of derived data is associated with the entity; obtaining, based on the set of derived data, a plurality of feature values corresponding to a plurality of features; providing the plurality of feature values to an autoencoder-decoder to obtain a plurality of feature-specific reconstruction errors; selecting, based on the plurality of feature-specific reconstruction errors, one or more features from the plurality of features; outputting the selected one or more features and one or more textual descriptions associated with the selected one or more features.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-enabled method for detecting an abnormal entity, the method comprising: receiving a set of input data, wherein the set of input data is associated with an entity; automatically obtaining, based on the received set of input data, a set of derived data, wherein the set of derived data is associated with the entity; obtaining, based on the set of derived data, a plurality of feature values corresponding to a plurality of features; providing the plurality of feature values to an autoencoder-decoder to obtain a plurality of feature-specific reconstruction errors; selecting, based on the plurality of feature-specific reconstruction errors, one or more features from the plurality of features; outputting the selected one or more features and one or more textual descriptions associated with the selected one or more features.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the entity is a merchant.
3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: providing a recommended action on the merchant based on the plurality of feature-specific reconstruction errors.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the recommended action comprises closing an account associated with the entity.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the set of input data comprises data related to a merchant application.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the set of derived data is obtained from a plurality of data sources.
7. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: before providing the plurality of feature values to the autoencoder-decoder, performing a check on the set of derived data based on a plurality of rule-sets.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of features comprises: how long the entity has been in business, a number of businesses the entity has, a transaction size of the entity, a transaction volume of the entity, location of the entity, a credit score, transaction types, a formation type, credit histories, or any combination thereof.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein a feature of the plurality of features is weighted based on percentages of ownership.
10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of features comprises: a transaction amount, a refund amount, a type of card, entry mode, authorization source, cardholder authorization method, a terminal type, a purpose of a transaction, usage history of a card, time of a transaction, a number of attempts associated with a transaction, information related to a cardholder, information related to a card, or any combination thereof.
11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the autoencoder-decoder comprises: a first recurrent neural network configured to compress the plurality of feature values to obtain a set of compressed values; and a second recurrent neural network configured to decompress the set of compressed values to obtain a plurality of reconstructed feature values.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the plurality of feature-specific reconstruction errors comprises a plurality of differences between the plurality of reconstructed feature values and the plurality of feature values.
13. The method according to claim 12, further comprising: scaling the plurality of differences based on variances associated with the plurality of features.
14. The method according to claim 11, further comprising calculating a total reconstruction error of the entity based on the plurality of feature-specific reconstruction errors.
15. The method according to claim 1, wherein the autoencoder-decoder is trained using an initial set of training data, wherein the initial set of training data comprises more data related to normal entities than data related to abnormal entities.
16. The method according to claim 14, wherein normal entities are non-fraudulent merchants, and abnormal entities are fraudulent merchants.
17. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: retraining the autoencoder-decoder based on the set of derived data.
18. The method according to claim 1, wherein the entity is a first entity, the method further comprising: outputting one or more features associated with a second entity and one or more descriptions associated with the one or more features associated with the second entity.
19. An electronic device, comprising: one or more processors; a memory; and one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including instructions for: receiving a set of input data, wherein the set of input data is associated with an entity; automatically obtaining, based on the received set of input data, a set of derived data, wherein the set of derived data is associated with the entity; obtaining, based on the set of derived data, a plurality of feature values corresponding to a plurality of features; providing the plurality of feature values to an autoencoder-decoder to obtain a plurality of feature-specific reconstruction errors; selecting, based on the plurality of feature-specific reconstruction errors, one or more features from the plurality of features; outputting the selected one or more features and one or more descriptions associated with the selected one or more features.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, which when executed by one or more processors of an electronic device, cause the electronic device to: receiving a set of input data, wherein the set of input data is associated with an entity; automatically obtaining, based on the received set of input data, a set of derived data, wherein the set of derived data is associated with the entity; obtaining, based on the set of derived data, a plurality of feature values corresponding to a plurality of features; providing the plurality of feature values to an autoencoder-decoder to obtain a plurality of feature-specific reconstruction errors; selecting, based on the plurality of feature-specific reconstruction errors, one or more features from the plurality of features; outputting the selected one or more features and one or more descriptions associated with the selected one or more features.
</claims>
</document>
