<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06N3/08,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GLIOZZO, ALFIO MASSIMILIANO
GLASS, MICHAEL ROBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74066054
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
UNARY RELATION EXTRACTION USING DISTANT SUPERVISION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems are described for populating knowledge graphs. A processor can identify a set of data in a knowledge graph. The processor can identify a plurality of portions of an unannotated corpus, where a portion includes at least one entity. The processor can cluster the plurality of portions into at least one data set based on the at least one entity of the plurality of portions. The processor can train a model using the at least one data set and the set of data identified from the knowledge graph. The processor can apply the model to a set of entities in the unannotated corpus to predict unary relations associated with the set of entities. The processor can convert the predicted unary relations into a set of binary relations associated with the set of entities. The processor can add the set of binary relations to the knowledge graph.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: identifying, by a processor, a set of data in a knowledge graph; identifying, by the processor, a plurality of portions of an unannotated corpus, wherein a portion includes at least one entity; clustering, by the processor, the plurality of portions into at least one data set based on the at least one entity of the plurality of portions; training, by the processor, a model using the at least one data set and the set of data identified from the knowledge graph; applying, by the processor, the model to a set of entities in the unannotated corpus to predict unary relations associated with the set of entities; converting, by the processor, the predicted unary relations into a set of binary relations associated with the set of entities; and adding, by the processor, the set of binary relations to the knowledge graph.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the model is a deep neural network comprising at least a piecewise convolutional neural network (PCNN) and a network-in-network (NiN) layer.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein training the model comprises: identifying, by the processor, at least one unary relation based on the set of data identified from the knowledge graph; and labeling, by the processor, at least one portion among the plurality of portions with the at least one unary relation, wherein the labeled portions are assigned as labeled training data to train the model, and unlabeled portions are assigned as unlabeled training data to train the model.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein training the model comprises: identifying, by the processor, a first vector in a word embedding table, the first vector including a plurality of objects, and the plurality of objects includes a particular entity; identifying, by the processor, a second vector in a position embedding table, the second vector including positions of the plurality of objects relative to the particular entity; concatenating, by the processor, the first vector with the second vector to produce an third vector; applying, by the processor, a piecewise convolutional neural network (PCNN) to the third vector to produce a matrix; applying, by the processor, a fully connected layer on the matrix to produce a fourth vector associated with the particular entity; and aggregating, by the processor, the fourth vector with other vectors associated with other entities to determine relations between the particular entity and the other entities.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the aggregating comprises applying a network-in-network layer over the fourth vector and the other vectors.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the converting comprises separating, by the processor, a portion of a predicted unary relation into a binary relation and an argument.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein applying the model comprises: receiving, by the processor, a particular entity among the unannotated corpus; and identifying, by the processor, a particular unary relation among a set of unary relations defined by the model.
8. A system comprising: a memory configured to store a knowledge graph and an unannotated corpus; a processor comprising hardware, the processor is configured to be in communication with the memory, and the processor being configured to: identify a set of data in the knowledge graph; identify a plurality of portions of the unannotated corpus, wherein a portion includes at least one entity; cluster the plurality of portions into at least one data set based on the at least one entity of the plurality of portions; train a model using the at least one data set and the set of data identified from the knowledge graph; apply the model to a set of entities in the unannotated corpus to predict unary relations associated with the set of entities; convert the predicted unary relations into a set of binary relations associated with the set of entities; and add the set of binary relations to the knowledge graph.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the model is a deep neural network comprising at least a piecewise convolutional neural network (PCNN) and a network-in-network (NiN) layer.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to: identify at least one unary relation based on the set of data identified from the knowledge graph; and label at least one portion among the plurality of portions with the at least one unary relation, wherein the labeled portions are assigned as labeled training data to train the model, and unlabeled portions are assigned as unlabeled training data to train the model.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to: identify a first vector in a word embedding table, the first vector including a plurality of objects, and the plurality of objects includes a particular entity; identify a second vector in a position embedding table, the second vector including positions of the plurality of objects relative to the particular entity; concatenate the first vector with the second vector to produce an third vector; apply a piecewise convolutional neural network (PCNN) to the third vector to produce a matrix; apply a fully connected layer on the matrix to produce a fourth vector associated with the particular entity; and aggregate the fourth vector with other vectors associated with other entities to determine relations between the particular entity and the other entities.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the aggregation comprises an application of a network-in-network layer over the fourth vector and the other vectors.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the conversion comprises separation of a portion of a predicted unary relation into a binary relation and an argument.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to: receiving, by the processor, a particular entity among the unannotated corpus; and identifying, by the processor, a particular unary relation among a set of unary relations defined by the model.
15. A computer program product for populating a knowledge graph, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor of a device to cause the device to: identify a set of data in a knowledge graph; identify a plurality of portions of an unannotated corpus, wherein a portion includes at least one entity; cluster the plurality of portions into at least one data set based on the at least one entity of the plurality of portions; train a model using the at least one data set and the set of data identified from the knowledge graph; apply the model to a set of entities in the unannotated corpus to predict unary relations associated with the set of entities; convert the predicted unary relations into a set of binary relations associated with the set of entities; and add the set of binary relations to the knowledge graph.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the model is a deep neural network comprising at least a piecewise convolutional neural network (PCNN) and a network-in-network (NiN) layer.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the processor of the device to cause the device to: identify at least one unary relation based on the set of data identified from the knowledge graph; and label at least one portion among the plurality of portions with the at least one unary relation, wherein the labeled portions are assigned as labeled training data to train the model, and unlabeled portions are assigned as unlabeled training data to train the model.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the processor of the device to cause the device to: identify a first vector in a word embedding table, the first vector including a plurality of objects, and the plurality of objects includes a particular entity; identify a second vector in a position embedding table, the second vector including positions of the plurality of objects relative to the particular entity; concatenate the first vector with the second vector to produce an third vector; apply a piecewise convolutional neural network (PCNN) to the third vector to produce a matrix; apply a fully connected layer on the matrix to produce a fourth vector associated with the particular entity; and aggregate the fourth vector with other vectors associated with other entities to determine relations between the particular entity and the other entities.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the aggregation comprises an application of a network-in-network layer over the fourth vector and the other vectors.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the conversion comprises separation of a portion of a predicted unary relation into a binary relation and an argument.
</claims>
</document>
