<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SUBRAMANIAM, L. VENKATA
MOHAMED, SHAJITH IKBAL
KARANAM, HIMA PRASAD
NEELAM, SUMIT
BHATIA, SUMIT
SHARMA, UDIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69641267
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and Method for Approximate Reasoning Using Ontologies and Unstructured Data
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems and computer program products for query processing are provided herein. A computer-implemented method includes receiving a first query from a user, determining whether the first query is capable of being answered using symbolic reasoning performed on data of a symbolic knowledge base, and executing the symbolic reasoning to generate a first query answer in response to a determination that the first query is capable of being answered using the symbolic reasoning. Axioms are extracted from a plurality of documents when it is determined that a second query is not capable of being answered using the symbolic reasoning. The method further includes determining whether the axioms are consistent with the symbolic knowledge base, and generating a second query answer based on the axioms in response to a determination that the one or more axioms are consistent with the symbolic knowledge base.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving a first query from at least one user; determining whether the first query is capable of being answered using symbolic reasoning performed on data of a symbolic knowledge base; executing the symbolic reasoning to generate a first query answer in response to a determination that the first query is capable of being answered using the symbolic reasoning; extracting one or more axioms from a plurality of documents in response to a determination that a second query is not capable of being answered using the symbolic reasoning; determining whether the one or more axioms are consistent with the symbolic knowledge base; and generating a second query answer based on the one or more axioms in response to a determination that the one or more axioms are consistent with the symbolic knowledge base.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: determining whether part of a given query is capable of being answered using the symbolic reasoning in response to the determination that the given query is not capable of being answered.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: modifying a given query to at least one of (i) include one or more keywords and (ii) exclude one or more keywords in response to the determination that the given query is not capable of being answered using the symbolic reasoning.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the one or more keywords correspond to one or more elements of an ontology.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more axioms comprise at least one of (i) an assertion component and (ii) a terminological component.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: adding the one or more axioms determined to be consistent to the symbolic knowledge base.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the queries comprises natural language queries.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, comprising converting at least one of the queries to either (i) a SPARQL format or (ii) a descriptive logic format.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of documents comprise unstructured textual documents.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the symbolic knowledge base comprises structured data represented in one or more ontologies.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said generating the second query answer comprises performing the symbolic reasoning in connection with at least part of the query.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said executing the symbolic reasoning comprises (i) identifying a portion of an ontology in the symbolic knowledge base required for generating the first query answer and (ii) generating the first query answer.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said extracting is driven by one or more relations in one or more ontologies in the symbolic knowledge base.
14. The computer implemented method of claim 1, comprising: generating a third query answer in response to a determination that the one or more axioms are inconsistent with the symbolic knowledge base, wherein the third query answer comprises an answer based on (i) structured data from the symbolic knowledge base and (ii) unstructured data from the plurality of documents.
15. A computer program product, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a device to cause the device to: receive a first query from at least one user; determine whether the first query is capable of being answered using symbolic reasoning performed on data of a symbolic knowledge base; execute the symbolic reasoning to generate a first query answer in response to a determination that the first query is capable of being answered using the symbolic reasoning; extract one or more axioms from a plurality of documents in response to a determination that a second query is not capable of being answered using the symbolic reasoning; determine whether the one or more axioms are consistent with the symbolic knowledge base; and generate a second query answer based on the one or more axioms in response to a determination that the one or more axioms are consistent with the symbolic knowledge base.
16. A system comprising: a memory; and at least one processor coupled to the memory and configured for: receiving a first query from at least one user; determining whether the first query is capable of being answered using symbolic reasoning performed on data of a symbolic knowledge base; executing the symbolic reasoning to generate a first query answer in response to a determination that the first query is capable of being answered using the symbolic reasoning; extracting one or more axioms from a plurality of documents in response to a determination that a second query is not capable of being answered using the symbolic reasoning; determining whether the one or more axioms are consistent with the symbolic knowledge base; and generating a second query answer based on the one or more axioms in response to a determination that the one or more axioms are consistent with the symbolic knowledge base.
17. The system according to claim 16, wherein the at least one processor is further configured for: determining whether part of a given query is capable of being answered using the symbolic reasoning in response to the determination that the given query is not capable of being answered.
18. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving a query from at least one user; determining that the query is not capable of being answered using symbolic reasoning performed on data of a symbolic knowledge base; extracting one or more axioms from a plurality of documents in response to the determination that the query is not capable of being answered using the symbolic reasoning; determining whether the one or more axioms are consistent with the symbolic knowledge base; and generating a query answer based on the one or more axioms in response to a determination that the one or more axioms are consistent with the symbolic knowledge base.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein the one or more axioms comprise an assertion component.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein the one or more axioms comprise a terminological component.
</claims>
</document>
