<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9535
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANJO CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
MEHTA, RISH
PATTON, DAMIEN
LEUNG, KW JUSTIN
HART, COREY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67988751
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NOTIFYING ENTITIES OF RELEVANT EVENTS
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention extends to methods, systems, and computer program products for notifying entities of relevant events. An event feed containing a plurality of events is received. Each event includes an event location, an event category, an event an event truthfulness, an event severity, and an event time. Entity notification preferences defining events relevant to an entity are accessed. Location and distance preferences collectively define an interest in events within a specified distance of one or more locations. The time preferences define that event notification occur at least within a specified time period of event detection. For an event in the event feed, characteristics of the event are compared to the entity notification preferences. It is determined that the event satisfies the entity notification preferences based on the comparisons. The entity (or another entity) is notified of the event in compliance with the time preferences.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. (canceled)
2. A method comprising: receiving an event from an event feed containing a plurality of events, the event being detected from a Time, Location, Context (TLC) normalized signal derived by dimensionally reducing one or more raw signals; accessing a plurality of entity event preferences, including at least a truthfulness threshold preference corresponding to a truthfulness value of the event that at least approximates an inherent reliability of the one or more raw signals corresponding to the TLC normalized signal; comparing characteristics of the event to the plurality of entity event preferences, including at least comparing the truthfulness threshold preference to the truthfulness value; determining, based on the comparisons, that the event satisfies each of the entity event preferences, including determining that the truthfulness value at least meets the truthfulness threshold preference; based on determining that the event satisfies each of the entity event preferences, notifying an electronic device of the event.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein accessing a plurality of entity event preferences comprises accessing a time preference.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein accessing the time preferences comprises accessing define an entity's desire to be notified of events in real time or of events that occurred within a specific amount of time prior to a present time.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein accessing an entity's desire to be notified of events that occurred within the specific amount of time prior to the present time comprises accessing an entity's desire to be notified of events that occurred between 1 minute and 60 minutes prior to the present time.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprising: accessing location data corresponding to the entity; determining a current location of the entity from the location data; and wherein comparing characteristics of the event to the plurality of the entity event preferences comprises comparing an event location to the current location of the entity.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein notifying the electronic device comprises notifying another entity.
8. The method of claim 2, further comprising: accessing location data corresponding to the entity; determining a probable future location of the entity from the location data; and wherein comparing characteristic of the event to the plurality of entity event preferences comprises comparing an event location to the probable future location of the entity.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein notifying the electronic device comprises notifying another entity.
10. The method of claim 2, further comprising: comparing characteristics of the event to characteristics of a plurality prior events; identifying sufficient similarity between the event and one or more prior events from the plurality of prior events; predicting an impact of the event based on impacts associated with the one or more prior events; creating a second notification indicative of the predicted impacts; and sending the second notification to the electronic device.
11. The computer system of claim 2, wherein comparing characteristics of the event to the plurality of entity event preferences comprises comparing the truthfulness value of the TLC normalized signal to the entity event preferences.
12. A computer system comprising: a processor; system memory coupled to the processor and storing instructions configured to cause the processor to: receive an event from an event feed containing a plurality of events, the event being detected from a Time, Location, Context (TLC) normalized signal derived by dimensionally reducing one or more raw signals; access a plurality of entity event preferences, including at least a truthfulness threshold preference corresponding to a truthfulness value that at least approximates an inherent reliability of the one or more raw signals corresponding to the TLC normalized signal; compare characteristics of the event to the plurality of entity event preferences, including at least comparing the truthfulness threshold preference to the truthfulness value; determine, based on the comparisons, that the event satisfies each of the entity event preferences, including that the truthfulness value at least meets the truthfulness threshold preference; and based on determining that the event satisfies each of the entity event preferences, notify an electronic device of the event.
13. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the instructions configured to cause the processor to notify an electronic device of the event comprise instructions configured to cause the processor to notify the electronic device of the event in live time.
14. The computer system of claim 12, further comprising instructions configured to cause the processor to, prior to notifying the electronic device, wait for a time delay defined a time preference within the plurality of entity event preferences.
15. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the time delay is between 1 minute and 60 minutes.
16. The computer system of claim 12, further comprising instructions configured to cause the processor to: determine a location of the event; access location data corresponding to the entity; determine a current location of the entity from the location data; and compare a location of the event to the current location of the entity; and compare a distance between the location of the event and the location of the entity to a location preference within the entity event preferences.
17. The computer system of claim 16, wherein instructions configured to cause the processor to notify an electronic device comprises instructions configured to cause the processor to notify another entity.
18. The computer system of claim 12, further comprising instructions configured to cause the processor to: access location data corresponding to the entity; and determine a probable future location of the entity from the location data; and determine whether the entity will satisfy a distance preference within the entity event preferences based on the probable future location of the entity.
19. The computer system of claim 18, wherein instructions configured to cause the processor to notify an electronic device comprise instructions configured to cause the processor to notify another entity.
20. The computer system of claim 18, further comprising instructions configured to cause the processor to: compare characteristics of the event to characteristics of a plurality prior events; Identify sufficient similarity between the event and one or more prior events from the plurality of prior events; predict an impact of the event based on impacts associated with the one or more prior events; create a second notification indicative of the predicted impacts; and send the second notification to the electronic device.
21. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the instructions configured to receive the event from the event feed further comprise causing the computing system to receive the truthfulness value within the event.
</claims>
</document>
