<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALESFORCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALEXANDER, JOSHUA
HOLLOWAY, SETH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69884756
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USER SESSION AUTHENTICATION
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to authenticating user communication sessions. Other embodiments may be described and/or claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A server computer system comprising: a processor; and memory coupled to the processor and storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the server computer system to perform operations comprising: detecting an attempt, by a client computing device of a user, to initiate an electronic communications session; retrieving a plurality of parameters, the plurality of parameters including: a username associated with the user, a password associated with the user, and a user agent identifier. generating, based on the plurality of parameters, an authentication score object comprising one or more fields, wherein the one or more fields of the authentication score object includes a numerical score identifying a risk level associated with allowing the electronic communication session with the client computing device; and allowing or rejecting the electronic communication session with the client computing device based on the authentication score object.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory further stores instructions for causing the server computer system to perform operations comprising: updating one or more fields in the authentication score object subsequent to allowing the electronic communication session; and terminating the electronic communication session based on the updated authentication score object.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein updating the one or more fields in the authentication object is performed periodically or in response to identifying a change in a parameter from the plurality of parameters.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory further stores instructions for causing the server computer system to perform operations comprising: updating one or more fields in the authentication score object subsequent to rejecting the electronic communication session; and allowing the electronic communication session based on the updated authentication score object.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein updating the one or more fields in the authentication object is performed periodically or in response to identifying a change in a parameter from the plurality of parameters.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of parameters include: an identifier specified by the client computing device, a user identifier associated with the user, an Internet protocol (IP) address associated with the client computing device, a login time, a login type, an indicator that the user is required to use two-factor-authentication, an indicator that a cookie associated with the client computing device is valid or invalid, an indicator that an IP address associated with the client computing device is valid or invalid, an indicator that a profile associated with the user has IP restrictions, or an indicator that an IP address associated with the client computing device is known to the server computer system.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein a field of the authentication score object includes a parameter from the plurality of parameters.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more fields of the authentication score object include: an identifier associated with the authentication score object, a time the authentication score object was created, a time the authentication score object was modified, an indicator of whether the numerical score identifying the risk level associated with allowing the electronic communication session with the client computing device exceeds a predetermined threshold, an identifier associated with the user of the client computing device, or an indicator of whether the electronic communication session is allowed or rejected.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein generating the authentication score object includes: assigning a first weight to a first parameter from the plurality of parameters; assigning a second weight to a second parameter from the plurality of parameters, wherein the first weight is different from the second weight; and determining a field for the authentication score object based on the first parameter and the second parameter.
10. A tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by a server computer system, cause the server computer system to perform operations comprising: detecting an attempt, by a client computing device of a user, to initiate an electronic communications session; retrieving a plurality of parameters, the plurality of parameters including: a username associated with the user, a password associated with the user, and a user agent identifier. generating, based on the plurality of parameters, an authentication score object comprising one or more fields, wherein the one or more fields of the authentication score object includes a numerical score identifying a risk level associated with allowing the electronic communication session with the client computing device; and allowing or rejecting the electronic communication session with the client computing device based on the authentication score object.
11. The computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the medium further stores instructions for causing the server computer system to perform operations comprising: updating one or more fields in the authentication score object subsequent to allowing the electronic communication session; and terminating the electronic communication session based on the updated authentication score object.
12. The computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein updating the one or more fields in the authentication object is performed periodically or in response to identifying a change in a parameter from the plurality of parameters.
13. The computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the medium further stores instructions for causing the server computer system to perform operations comprising: updating one or more fields in the authentication score object subsequent to rejecting the electronic communication session; and allowing the electronic communication session based on the updated authentication score object.
14. The computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein updating the one or more fields in the authentication object is performed periodically or in response to identifying a change in a parameter from the plurality of parameters.
15. The computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the plurality of parameters include: an identifier specified by the client computing device, a user identifier associated with the user, an Internet protocol (IP) address associated with the client computing device, a login time, a login type, an indicator that the user is required to use two-factor-authentication, an indicator that a cookie associated with the client computing device is valid or invalid, an indicator that an IP address associated with the client computing device is valid or invalid, an indicator that a profile associated with the user has IP restrictions, or an indicator that an IP address associated with the client computing device is known to the server computer system.
16. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein a field of the authentication score object includes a parameter from the plurality of parameters.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein a field of the authentication score object includes: an identifier associated with the authentication score object, a time the authentication score object was created, a time the authentication score object was modified, an indicator of whether the numerical score identifying the risk level associated with allowing the electronic communication session with the client computing device exceeds a predetermined threshold, an identifier associated with the user of the client computing device, or an indicator of whether the electronic communication session is allowed or rejected.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein generating the authentication score object includes: assigning a first weight to a first parameter from the plurality of parameters; assigning a second weight to a second parameter from the plurality of parameters, wherein the first weight is different from the second weight; and determining a field for the authentication score object based on the first parameter and the second parameter.
19. A method comprising: detecting, by a server computer system, an attempt, by a client computing device of a user, to initiate an electronic communications session; retrieving, by the server computer system, a plurality of parameters, the plurality of parameters including: a username associated with the user, a password associated with the user, and a user agent identifier. generating, by the server computer system and based on the plurality of parameters, an authentication score object comprising one or more fields, wherein the one or more fields of the authentication score object includes a numerical score identifying a risk level associated with allowing the electronic communication session with the client computing device; and allowing or rejecting the electronic communication session with the client computing device, by the server computer system, based on the authentication score object.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein a field of the authentication score object includes: an identifier associated with the authentication score object, a time the authentication score object was created, a time the authentication score object was modified, an indicator of whether the numerical score identifying the risk level associated with allowing the electronic communication session with the client computing device exceeds a predetermined threshold, an identifier associated with the user of the client computing device, or an indicator of whether the electronic communication session is allowed or rejected.
</claims>
</document>
