<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63B24/00,G01S13/66,G01S13/88,G06T7/00,G06T7/246
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TRACKMAN
</assignee>

<inventors>
TUXEN, FREDRIK
CHEN, CHENG
STRANDGAARD, MATHIAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69770965
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DRIVING RANGE SHOT TRAVEL PATH CHARACTERISTICS
</title>

<abstract>
A method for determining golf shot characteristics includes detecting, in imaging data captured by an imager, a signature of a golf shot launched from a first launch area, a field of view of the imager including one of the first launch area and an area adjacent to the first launch area, and determining, from the imaging data, first golf shot characteristics, the first shot characteristics including a first launch location and a first launch time in combination with determining whether the first launch location and the first launch time correspond to a second launch location and a second launch time for second golf shot characteristics determined from sensor data captured by a further sensor arrangement and when no correspondence is found between the first and second launch locations and the first and second launch times, transmitting the first shot characteristics to a display at the first launch location.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining golf shot characteristics, comprising: detecting, in imaging data captured by an imager, a signature of a golf shot launched from a first launch area of a plurality of launch areas from which golf balls are to be launched, a field of view of the imager including one of the first launch area and an area adjacent to the first launch area; determining, from the imaging data, first shot characteristics for the golf shot, the first shot characteristics including a first launch location and a first launch time; determining whether the first launch location and the first launch time correspond to a second launch location and a second launch time for second shot characteristics determined from sensor data captured by a further sensor arrangement; and when no correspondence is found between the first and second launch locations and the first and second launch times, transmitting the first shot characteristics to a display at the first launch area.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: when a correspondence is found between the first and second launch locations and the first and second launch times, transmitting the second shot characteristics to the display at the first launch area.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the signature of the golf shot includes a blob detection identifying image features that correlate to a golf ball signature.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: calculating a motion image from a plurality of adjacent image frames where a golf ball signature was detected, the motion image including a blur corresponding to the golf signature; and extracting features corresponding to the blur from the motion image.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the extracted features include a length, width, blur factor, horizontal angle, and estimated launch position of the blur.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining whether blobs detected in a plurality of images all correspond to a same golf shot based on a spatial and temporal check.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining whether blobs detected in a plurality of images all correspond to a same golf shot based on an integer programming optimization.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: calibrating the imager to the first launch area.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the further sensor arrangement includes one of a radar array and an imaging system.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the first shot characteristics include an initial velocity, an initial direction, and an estimated travel distance of the golf shot.
11. A system for determining golf shot characteristics, comprising: an imager capturing imaging data and having a field of view including a first launch area of a plurality of launch areas from which golf shots are to be launched and an area adjacent to the first launch area; and a processing arrangement detecting, in the imaging data, a signature of a golf shot launched from the first launch area, the processing arrangement determining, from the imaging data, first shot characteristics for the golf shot, the first shot characteristics including a first launch location and a first launch time, the processing arrangement determining whether the first launch location and the first launch time correspond to a second launch location and a second launch time for second shot characteristics determined from sensor data captured by a further sensor arrangement, the processing arrangement, when no correspondence is found between the first and second launch locations and the first and second launch times, transmitting the first shot characteristics to a display at the first launch area.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein when a correspondence is found between the first and second launch locations and the first and second launch times, the processing arrangement transmits the second shot characteristics to the display at the first launch area.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the processing arrangement detects the signature of the golf shot employs blob detection to identify image features that correlate to a golf ball signature.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the processing arrangement calculates a motion image from a plurality of adjacent image frames in which a golf ball signature was detected, the motion image including a blur corresponding to the golf signature and extracts features corresponding to the blur from the motion image.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the extracted features include a length, width, blur factor, horizontal angle, and estimated launch position of the blur.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the processing arrangement determines whether blobs detected in a plurality of images correspond to a same golf shot based on a spatial and temporal check.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the processing arrangement determines whether blobs detected in a plurality of images correspond to a same golf shot based on an integer programming optimization.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the imager is calibrated to the first launch area.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the further sensor arrangement includes one of a radar array and an imaging system.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the first shot characteristics include an initial velocity, an initial direction, and an estimated travel distance of the golf shot.
21. A system for supplying golf shot characteristics to a plurality of hitting bays in a driving range, comprising: a primary sensing arrangement detecting data corresponding to shot characteristics of each of a plurality of golf shots launched from the hitting bays of the driving range; an imager capturing imaging data and having a field of view including one of a first one of the hitting bays and an area adjacent to the first hitting bay; and a processing arrangement detecting, in the imaging data, a signature of the golf shot launched from the first hitting bay, the processing arrangement determining, from the imaging data, first shot characteristics for the golf shot, the first shot characteristics including a first launch location and a first launch time, the processing arrangement determining whether the first launch location and the first launch time correspond to a second launch location and a second launch time for second shot characteristics determined from sensor data captured by the primary sensing arrangement wherein, when no correspondence is found between the first and second launch locations and the first and second launch times, the processor transmits the first shot characteristics to a display at the first hitting bay.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the primary sensing arrangement includes a radar device unable to reliably track golf shots having one of a speed below a first threshold level and a flight time below a second threshold level, the processing arrangement supplying to the first hitting bay data based on the imaging data for shots launched from the first hitting bay having one of a speed below the first threshold level and a flight time below the second threshold level.
</claims>
</document>
