<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N5/232,H04N5/378
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
MIYATANI, YOSHITAKA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66173714
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SIGNAL PROCESSING DEVICE AND IMAGING DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A signal processing device includes a restoration unit that restores one restored image by using a plurality of detection signal sets obtained by an imaging element in a plurality of states in which at least one of a position or orientation with respect to a subject is different, the imaging element that includes a plurality of pixel output units that receives incident light from the subject incident without an intervention of an imaging lens or a pinhole and each outputs one detection signal indicating an output pixel value modulated by an incident angle of the incident light, and outputs a detection signal set including a plurality of detection signals output from the plurality of pixel output units. The present disclosure is applicable to, for example, an imaging system that images using a plurality of imaging devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A signal processing device comprising: a restoration unit that restores one restored image by using a plurality of detection signal sets obtained by an imaging element in a plurality of states in which at least one of a position or orientation with respect to a subject is different, the imaging element that includes a plurality of pixel output units that receives incident light from the subject incident without an intervention of an imaging lens or a pinhole and each outputs one detection signal indicating an output pixel value modulated by an incident angle of the incident light, and outputs a detection signal set including a plurality of detection signals output from the plurality of pixel output units.
2. The signal processing device according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of detection signal sets is obtained by a plurality of imaging elements.
3. The signal processing device according to claim 2, wherein the restoration unit restores the one restored image by using the plurality of detection signal sets and a coefficient set group selected on a basis of a distance between each of the plurality of imaging elements and the subject.
4. The signal processing device according to claim 3, wherein, in a case where the distance between each of the imaging elements and the subject is shorter than a predetermined distance, the restoration unit restores the one restored image by using a coefficient set group selected on a basis of both the distance and a position of each of the imaging elements with respect to the subject, and the plurality of detection signal sets.
5. The signal processing device according to claim 3, wherein the restoration unit restores the one restored image by using a coefficient set group selected on a basis of the distance, the position, and orientation of each of the imaging elements with respect to the subject, and the plurality of detection signal sets.
6. The signal processing device according to claim 3, wherein the restoration unit restores the one restored image by using one simultaneous equation using the plurality of detection signal sets and the coefficient set group.
7. The signal processing device according to claim 2, further comprising: at least a part of the imaging elements out of the plurality of imaging elements.
8. The signal processing device according to claim 7, wherein the restoration unit restores the one restored image by using a detection signal set obtained by the at least a part of the imaging elements included in the signal processing device, and a detection signal set obtained by an imaging element different from the imaging element included in the signal processing device.
9. The signal processing device according to claim 7, wherein at least a part of the pixel output units of the at least a part of the imaging elements has incident angle directivity indicating directivity to the incident angle of the incident light from the subject.
10. The signal processing device according to claim 9, wherein incident angle directivities of two or more imaging elements out of the plurality of imaging elements are different from each other.
11. The signal processing device according to claim 9, wherein incident angle directivities of two or more imaging elements out of the plurality of imaging elements are same.
12. The signal processing device according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of detection signal sets is obtained in each of the states by one imaging element.
13. The signal processing device according to claim 12, further comprising: the imaging element.
14. The signal processing device according to claim 13, wherein at least a part of the pixel output units of the imaging element has incident angle directivity indicating directivity to the incident angle of the incident light.
15. The signal processing device according to claim 13, wherein the plurality of pixel output units of the imaging element has a configuration capable of independently setting incident angle directivity indicating directivity to the incident angle of the incident light.
16. An imaging device comprising: one or more imaging elements that includes a plurality of pixel output units that receives incident light from a subject incident without an intervention of an imaging lens or a pinhole and each outputs one detection signal indicating an output pixel value modulated by an incident angle of the incident light, and outputs a detection signal set including a plurality of detection signals output from the plurality of pixel output units; and an association unit that associates the detection signal set with metadata used for restoring a restored image using the detection signal set.
17. The imaging device according to claim 16, wherein the metadata includes at least one of a distance between the imaging element and the subject, a position of the imaging element with respect to the subject, orientation of the imaging element with respect to the subject, or a coefficient set group.
18. The imaging device according to claim 16, wherein the association unit associates a plurality of detection signal sets obtained by a plurality of imaging elements including the one or more imaging elements and the metadata used for restoring the restored image using the plurality of detection signal sets.
19. The imaging device according to claim 18, wherein the plurality of imaging elements includes an imaging element provided in another imaging device.
20. The imaging device according to claim 18, wherein at least a part of the pixel output units of the plurality of imaging elements has incident angle directivity indicating directivity to the incident angle of the incident light from the subject.
21. The imaging device according to claim 16, further comprising: a communication unit that transmits the detection signal set.
22. The imaging device according to claim 21, wherein the communication unit transmits the metadata associated with the detection signal set.
23. The imaging device according to claim 16, wherein the plurality of pixel output units has a configuration capable of independently setting incident angle directivity indicating directivity to the incident angle of the incident light from the subject.
</claims>
</document>
