<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W36/08,H04W36/12,H04W36/30,H04W76/15
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
AT&T MOBILITY II
</assignee>

<inventors>
CUI, ZHI
DOWLATKHAH, SANGAR
SMITH, JR., PAUL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71071050
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FRAMEWORK FOR A 6G UBIQUITOUS ACCESS NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
A framework for a 6th generation (6G) ubiquitous wireless communications network is provided. A system comprises: a memory that stores executable instructions; and a processor, coupled to the memory, that facilitates execution of the executable instructions to perform operations. The operations comprise: obtaining first information associated with a first condition of a terrestrial radio network of terrestrial radio networks from a terrestrial controller that collects the first information from the terrestrial radio networks; determining second information associated with a resource of a satellite network, wherein the satellite network is integrated with the terrestrial radio networks to form an integrated network to which a mobile device connects, wherein a defined application is alternatively executable at the mobile device via any of a group of networks, the group comprising the satellite network and the terrestrial radio networks; and determining whether to re-assign the defined application from the terrestrial radio network to the satellite network based on a result of evaluating at least the first condition.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: obtaining first information associated with a first condition of a terrestrial radio network of terrestrial radio networks from a terrestrial controller that collects the first information from the terrestrial radio network; determining second information associated with a resource of a satellite network, wherein the satellite network is integrated with the terrestrial radio networks to form an integrated network to which a mobile device connects, wherein a defined application is alternatively executable at the mobile device via any of a group of networks, the group comprising the satellite network and the terrestrial radio networks; and determining whether to re-assign the defined application from the terrestrial radio network to the satellite network based on a result of evaluating at least the first condition.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the evaluating the first condition comprises evaluating a loading of the terrestrial radio network relative to the resource of the satellite network, and wherein the satellite network is controlled by a satellite controller.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the first information comprises a buffer status of the terrestrial radio network transmitted from the terrestrial radio network based on a change in the buffer status, and wherein the evaluating the first condition comprises evaluating a subscription for the defined application.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the obtaining the first information is performed periodically based on a periodic collection of the first information by the terrestrial controller.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the obtaining the first information is performed based on detection of change in a result of the evaluating the first condition by a defined amount by a component of the terrestrial radio network.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the first information comprises an access load condition and a backhaul load condition of the terrestrial radio network.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the obtaining the first information is performed based on detection of change in a result of the evaluating the first condition by a defined amount by a component of the terrestrial radio network.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the integrated network is adapted to operate according to a 6th generation wireless telecommunication protocol.
9. A method, comprising: obtaining, by a device comprising a processor, first information associated with a first condition of a terrestrial radio network of terrestrial radio networks; determining, by the device, second information associated with a resource of a satellite network, wherein the satellite network is integrated with the terrestrial radio networks to form an integrated network to which a mobile device connects, and wherein a defined application is alternatively executable at the mobile device via a selection, by the device, between the satellite network and the terrestrial radio networks; and determining, by the device, an assignment of the defined application between the terrestrial radio network and the satellite network based on at least the first information and the second information.
10. The device of claim 9, wherein the first condition comprises an access load condition of the terrestrial radio network relative to the resource of the satellite network, and is based on a subscription of an entity associated with the mobile device.
11. The device of claim 9, wherein the first condition comprises an access load condition of the terrestrial radio network relative to the resource of the satellite network and an acceptable service level of the defined application.
12. The device of claim 9, wherein the first information comprises a buffer status of the terrestrial radio network received by the device based on a change in the buffer status, and wherein the first condition takes into account a quality of experience received from an entity to whom the defined application is to be provided.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the obtaining the first information is performed periodically based on a periodic collection of the first information of a terrestrial controller of the terrestrial radio networks.
14. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving first information associated with a first condition of a terrestrial radio network of terrestrial radio networks from a terrestrial controller that collects the first information from the terrestrial radio networks; determining second information associated with a resource of a satellite network, wherein the satellite network is integrated with the terrestrial radio networks to form an integrated network to which a mobile device connects, wherein a defined application is executable at the mobile device via the satellite network or one of the terrestrial radio networks; and determining whether to re-assign the defined application from the terrestrial radio network to the satellite network based on at least the first condition.
15. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the first condition factors in a bandwidth of the terrestrial radio network relative to the resource of the satellite network.
16. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the first condition factors in a buffer status of the terrestrial radio network transmitted from the terrestrial radio network based on a change in the buffer status, and wherein the first condition further factors in a subscription for the defined application or a quality of experience received from an entity to whom the defined application is to be provided.
17. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the receiving the first information is performed aperiodically based on an aperiodic collection of the first information by the terrestrial controller at specified times.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the receiving the first information is performed based on detection of change in the first condition by a defined amount by a component of the terrestrial radio network.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the first information comprises an access load condition and a backhaul load condition of the terrestrial radio network.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the receiving the first information is performed based on detection of change in the first condition by a defined amount by a component of the terrestrial radio network.
</claims>
</document>
