<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B10/42,E21B12/02,E21B17/10,E21B41/00,G01N21/88,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PASTUSEK, PAUL, E.
SPIVEY, BENJAMIN J.
SANDERSON, DEREK M.
</assignee>

<inventors>
PASTUSEK, PAUL, E.
SPIVEY, BENJAMIN J.
SANDERSON, DEREK M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67480458
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Subterranean Drill Bit Management System
</title>

<abstract>
A method for characterizing damage to bits or bottom hole assemblies can include identifying, via a supervised learning model, a location, an extent, a type, a consistency, or any combination thereof of damage to a bit or a bottom hole assembly from an image of the bit or the bottom hole assembly. A graphical output is generated based on the damage to the at least one component of the bit or the bottom hole assembly.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for characterizing damage to a bit or a bottom hole assembly comprising: identifying, via a supervised learning model, a location, an extent, a type, a consistency, or any combinations thereof of damage to the bit or the bottom hole assembly from an image of the bit or the bottom hole assembly; and generating a graphical output based on the damage to the bit or the bottom hole assembly.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the type indicates a fracture pattern of the damage to the bit or the bottom hole assembly, wherein the fracture pattern comprises smooth wear, a tangential cutter fracture, spalling, heat checking, or blade wear scars.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the extent indicates an amount of wear on the bit or an amount of wear on the bottom hole assembly below threshold levels.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the supervised learning model is a convolutional neural network.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the supervised learning model comprises linear discriminant analysis, a support vector machine, a k-nearest neighbor technique, a random forest learning technique, or any combination thereof.
6. The method of claim 1, comprising generating a processed image by applying at least one modification to the image, wherein the at least one modification comprises a rotation modification, a translation modification, a scaling modification, a red-green-blue (RGB) scale modification, or a hue-saturation-intensity (HSI) scale modification.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein generating the processed image comprises modifying the image to be from a uniform perspective shared with a second image.
8. The method of claim 1, comprising identifying, via the supervised learning model, a cause of the damage to the bit or the bottom hole assembly based on the image.
9. The method of claim 1, comprising extracting a feature, via the supervised learning model, from a processed image, wherein the extracted feature indicates a cause of the damage to the bit or the bottom hole assembly.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein extracting the feature comprises performing edge detection on the processed image.
11. The method of claim 1, comprising identifying a component location of the bit or the bottom hole assembly.
12. The method of claim 1, comprising modifying a design of the bit or the bottom hole assembly based on a cause of damage identified by the supervised learning model.
13. The method of claim 1, comprising: generating the supervised learning model to identify an undamaged component location based on least one image of an undamaged component of the bit or the bottom hole assembly; and training the supervised learning model to identify a cause of the damage based on at least one image of a damaged component of the bit or the bottom hole assembly, wherein the damaged component corresponds to the undamaged component location.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the location indicates a spatial orientation and a position with respect to the bit or bottom hole assembly.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the consistency indicates whether the damage is repeated in other locations on the bit or the bottom hole assembly.
16. A system for characterizing damage to a bit or a bottom hole assembly comprising: a processor to: identify, via a supervised learning model, a location, an extent, a type, a consistency, or any combination thereof of damage to the bit or the bottom hole assembly from an image of the bit or the bottom hole assembly, wherein the image is detected in response to drilling a wellbore with a drill string comprising the bit or the bottom hole assembly within a subsurface region; and generate a graphical output based on the damage to the bit or the bottom hole assembly.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the type indicates a fracture pattern of the damage to the bit or the bottom hole assembly, wherein the fracture pattern comprises smooth wear, a tangential cutter fracture, spalling, heat checking, or blade wear scars.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the extent indicates an amount of bit wear or an amount of bottom hole assembly wear below threshold levels.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the supervised learning model is a convolutional neural network, or wherein the supervised learning model comprises linear discriminant analysis, a support vector machine, a k-nearest neighbor technique, a random forest learning technique, or any combination thereof
20. The system of claim 16, wherein the processor is configured to identify, via the supervised learning model, a cause of the damage to the bit or the bottom hole assembly based on the image.
21. The system of claim 16, wherein the processor is to: generate the supervised learning model to identify an undamaged component location based on at least one image of an undamaged component; and train the supervised learning model to identify a cause of damage based on at least one image of a damaged component of the bit or the bottom hole assembly, wherein the damaged component corresponds to the undamaged component location.
22. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media for characterizing damage to a bit or a bottom hole assembly comprising a plurality of instructions that, in response to execution by a processor, cause the processor to: identify, via a supervised learning model, a location, an extent, a type, a consistency, or any combination thereof of damage to the bit or the bottom hole assembly from an image of the bit or the bottom hole assembly, wherein the image is detected in response to drilling a wellbore with a drill string comprising the bit or the bottom hole assembly within a subsurface region; and generate a graphical output based on a cause of damage to the bit or the bottom hole assembly.
23. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 22, wherein the plurality of instructions direct the processor to recommend a design of the bit or the bottom hole assembly based on the cause of damage identified by the supervised learning model.
24. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 22, wherein the plurality of instructions direct the processor to identify, via the supervised learning model, a cause of the damage to the bit or the bottom hole assembly based on the image.
25. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 22, wherein the plurality of instructions direct the processor to: generate the supervised learning model to identify an undamaged component location based at least one image of an undamaged component of the bit or the bottom hole assembly; and train the supervised learning model to further identify the cause of damage based, at least in part on at least one image of a damaged component of the bit or the bottom hole assembly, wherein the damaged component corresponds to the undamaged component location.
</claims>
</document>
