<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T3/40,G06T5/50,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZHEJIANG DAHUA TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
YANG, CHANGJIU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61806732
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SUPER-RESOLUSION IMAGE RECONSTRUCTION
</title>

<abstract>
A method for super-resolution image reconstruction may include obtaining an original image that has first resolution and includes a target object. The method may also include generating a first target image by increasing the first resolution of the original image. The method may also include determining first feature points relating to the target object based on the first target image. The method may also include determining first priori information relating to the target object based on the first feature points relating to the target object. The method may also include generating a second target image having second resolution higher than the first resolution based on the first priori information relating to the target object and the first target image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for super-resolution image reconstruction, comprising: at least one storage device including a set of instructions; and at least one processor in communication with the at least one storage device, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the at least one processor is directed to cause the system to: obtain an original image that has first resolution and includes a target object; generate a first target image by increasing the first resolution of the original image; determine first feature points relating to the target object based on the first target image; determine first priori information relating to the target object based on the first feature points relating to the target object; and generate a second target image having second resolution higher than the first resolution based on the first priori information relating to the target object and the first target image.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein to generate the second target image, the at least one processor is directed to cause the system to: for each of one or more portions of the target object, determine at least one first local feature related to the portion based on the first priori information and the first target image; determine at least one first high-frequency feature relating to the target object based on the first target image; generate a first high-frequency image based on the one or more first local features, the at least one first high-frequency feature, and the first target image; and generate the second target image based on the first target image and the first high-frequency image.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a camera to take the original image and send the original image to the at least one processor.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein to obtain the original image, the at least one processor is further directed to cause the system to: obtain an image that includes the target object; and generate the original image by identifying the target object in the image to be processed.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein to determine the first priori information relating to the target object, the processor is further directed to cause the system to: interpolate points to the first feature points relating to the target object.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the at least one processor is further directed to cause the system to: determine whether the second resolution is greater than or equal to a resolution threshold; in response to a determination that the second resolution is less than the resolution threshold: obtain a processed first target image by increasing resolution of the first target image, and obtain a processed second target image by increasing the second resolution; obtain a combined image by combining the processed first target image and the processed second target image; determine second feature points relating to the target object based on the combined image; determine second priori information relating to the target object based on the second feature points relating to the target object; and generate a third target image having third resolution higher than the second resolution based on the second priori information relating to the target object, the processed first target image, and the processed second target image.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein to generate the third target image, the at least one processor is further directed to cause the system to: for each of the one or more portions of the target object, determine at least one second local feature related to the portion based on the second priori information, the processed first target image, and the processed second target image; determine at least one second high-frequency feature relating to the target object based on the processed first target image and the processed second target image; and determine the third target image based on the one or more second local features, the at least one second high-frequency features, the processed first target image, and the processed second target image.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the at least one processor is further directed to cause the system to: determine whether the third resolution is greater than or equal to the resolution threshold; in response to a determination that the third resolution is less than the resolution threshold, obtain a fourth target image by increasing the third resolution; determine third feature points relating to the target object based on the fourth target image; determine third priori information relating to the target object based on the third feature points relating to the target object; and generate a fifth target image having fourth resolution based on the third priori information relating to the target object and the fourth target image, the fourth resolution being higher than the third resolution.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein to generate the fifth target image having the fourth resolution, the at least one processor is further directed to cause the system to: for each of the one or more portions of the target object, determine at least one third local feature related to the portion based on the third priori information and the fourth target image; and generate the fifth target image based on the one or more third local features and the fourth target image.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the target object includes one or more faces.
11. A method for super-resolution image reconstruction implemented on a computing device having one or more processors and one or more storage devices, the method comprising: obtaining an original image that has first resolution and includes a target object; generating a first target image by increasing the first resolution of the original image; determining first feature points relating to the target object based on the first target image; determining first priori information relating to the target object based on the first feature points relating to the target object; and generating a second target image having second resolution higher than the first resolution based on the first priori information relating to the target object and the first target image.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the generating of the second target image includes: for each of one or more portions of the target object, determining at least one first local feature related to the portion based on the first priori information and the first target image; determining at least one first high-frequency feature relating to the target object based on the first target image; generating a first high-frequency image based on the one or more first local features, the at least one first high-frequency feature, and the first target image; and generating the second target image based on the first target image and the first high-frequency image.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the original image is taken by a camera.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the obtaining of the original image includes: obtaining an image that includes the target object; and generating the original image by identifying the target object in the image to be processed.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the determining of the first priori information relating to the target object includes: interpolating points to the first feature points relating to the target object.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining whether the second resolution is greater than or equal to a resolution threshold; in response to a determination that the second resolution is less than the resolution threshold: obtaining a processed first target image by increasing resolution of the first target image, and obtaining a processed second target image by increasing the second resolution; obtaining a combined image by combining the processed first target image and the processed second target image; determining second feature points relating to the target object based on the combined image; determining second priori information relating to the target object based on the second feature points relating to the target object; and generating a third target image having third resolution higher than the second resolution based on the second priori information relating to the target object, the processed first target image, and the processed second target image.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the generating of the third target image includes: for each of the one or more portions of the target object, determining at least one second local feature related to the portion based on the second priori information, the processed first target image, and the processed second target image; determining at least one second high-frequency feature relating to the target object based on the processed first target image and the processed second target image; and determining the third target image based on the one or more second local features, the at least one second high-frequency features, the processed first target image, and the processed second target image.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising: determining whether the third resolution is greater than or equal to the resolution threshold; in response to a determination that the third resolution is less than the resolution threshold, obtaining a fourth target image by increasing the third resolution; determining third feature points relating to the target object based on the fourth target image; determining third priori information relating to the target object based on the third feature points relating to the target object; and generating a fifth target image having fourth resolution based on the third priori information relating to the target object and the fourth target image, the fourth resolution being higher than the third resolution.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the generating of the fifth target image having the fourth resolution includes: for each of the one or more portions of the target object, determining at least one third local feature related to the portion based on the third priori information and the fourth target image; and generating the fifth target image based on the one or more third local features and the fourth target image.
20. (canceled)
21. 21-30. (canceled)
31. A non-transitory computer readable medium, comprising at least one set of instructions for super-resolution image reconstruction, wherein when executed by one or more processors of a computing device, the at least one set of instructions causes the computing device to perform a method, the method comprising: obtaining an original image that has first resolution and includes a target object; generating a first target image by increasing the first resolution of the original image; determining first feature points relating to the target object based on the first target image; determining first priori information relating to the target object based on the first feature points relating to the target object; and generating a second target image having second resolution higher than the first resolution based on the first priori information relating to the target object and the first target image.
</claims>
</document>
