<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B62D15/02,G01S17/42,G01S17/93,G01S7/48,G05D1/02,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AUDI
VOLKSWAGEN
PORSCHE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUEPPER, Nils
Senn, Melanie
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70227993
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ON-ROAD LOCALIZATION METHODOLOGIES AND EQUIPMENT UTILIZING ROAD SURFACE CHARACTERISTICS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed embodiments provide a technical improvement for providing localization for a transportation vehicle by detecting road wear reference lines in a roadway on which the transportation vehicle is travelling and controlling, guiding or otherwise facilitating alignment of the transportation vehicle wheel centers with the detected centers of the road wear.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Transportation vehicle equipment for performing on-roadway localization, the equipment comprising: means for analyzing image data depicting a roadway on which the transportation vehicle is travelling to detect at least one road wear reference line in a roadway on which the transportation vehicle is travelling, wherein the image data is generated using at least one sensor mounted to the transportation vehicle; and means, coupled to the at least one sensor, for facilitating alignment of a center of at least one wheel surface of a transportation vehicle wheel with the detected center of the road wear reference line.
2. The transportation vehicle equipment of claim 1, further comprising equipment for providing autonomous and/or assistive functionality for operating the transportation vehicle to travel on the roadway, which includes the means for facilitating alignment of the center of the at least one wheel surface of the transportation vehicle wheel with the detected center of the road wear reference line.
3. The transportation vehicle equipment of claim 1, wherein the transportation vehicle equipment further includes the at least one sensor.
4. The transportation vehicle equipment of claim 3, wherein the at least one sensor is a Frequency Modulated Continuous Wave (FMCW) LiDAR sensor.
5. The transportation vehicle equipment of claim 3, wherein the FMCW LiDAR provides coherent LiDAR using a continuously-emitting laser that varies frequency through a range and compares the frequency of returned signals with corresponding local reference signal to determine distance to a target.
6. The transportation vehicle equipment of claim 3, wherein the transportation vehicle includes a plurality of sensors including the at least one sensor, wherein the transportation equipment further comprises equipment for providing autonomous and/or assistive functionality for operating the transportation vehicle to travel on the roadway, which includes the means for facilitating alignment of the center of the at least one wheel surface of the transportation vehicle wheel with the detected center of the road wear reference line, and wherein the equipment for providing autonomous and/or assistive functionality analyzes data generated by the plurality of sensors to provide the autonomous and/or assistive functionality in the transportation vehicle.
7. The transportation vehicle equipment of claim 6, wherein the equipment for providing autonomous and/or assistive functionality alters a weighting of sensor data from at least some of the plurality of sensors based on analysis of data indicating reliability and/or availability of the sensor data from the plurality of sensors.
8. The transportation vehicle equipment of claim 3, wherein the means for analyzing image data analyzes LiDAR point cloud data including x, y, and z coordinates, intensity data, and radial velocity data.
9. The transportation vehicle equipment of claim 3, wherein the means for analyzing image data uses deep neural network operations to perform feature extraction and classification based on low-dimensional characteristic features.
10. The transportation vehicle equipment of claim 9, wherein the deep neural network operations perform machine learning methods for data analysis to transform high-dimensional sensor data generated by the at least one sensor to characteristic low dimensional features.
11. The transportation vehicle equipment of claim 9, wherein the deep neural network operations utilize deep neural networks for performing machine learning methods for data analysis including speckle patterning analysis.
12. The transportation vehicle of equipment of claim 9, wherein the deep neural network operations perform machine learning methods for data analysis include as least one of application of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), Recurrent Neural Network (RNNs), use of convolutional autoencoders, application of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), Siamese/Triplet Networks, and/or Graph Neural Networks (GNNs).
13. The transportation vehicle equipment of claim 1, wherein the means for facilitating alignment includes a lane departure warning system configured to warn a driver of the transportation vehicle when the vehicle begins to move out of its lane of traffic on the roadway.
14. The transportation vehicle equipment of claim 1, wherein the means for facilitating alignment includes a lane departure warning system configured to control steering of the transportation vehicle to maintain its lane of traffic on the roadway.
15. The transportation vehicle equipment of claim 1, wherein the means for analyzing image data depicting a roadway on which the transportation vehicle is travelling is further configured to detect a presence or absence of road treatment material on the roadway based on the at least one sensor mounted to the transportation vehicle, wherein the data indicating the presence or absence of the road treatment material is taken into consideration by the means for facilitating alignment so as to provide lane departure warning functionality.
16. A method of performing on-roadway localization using equipment included in a transportation vehicle, the method comprising: analyzing image data depicting a roadway on which the transportation vehicle is travelling to detect at least one road wear reference line in a roadway on which the transportation vehicle is travelling, wherein the image data is generated using at least one sensor mounted to the transportation vehicle; and facilitating, by means coupled to the at least one sensor, of alignment of a center of at least one wheel surface of a wheel of the transportation vehicle with the detected center of the road wear reference line.
17. The on-roadway transportation vehicle localization method of claim 16, providing autonomous and/or assistive functionality for operating the transportation vehicle to travel on the roadway by the facilitating alignment of the center of the at least one wheel surface of the transportation vehicle wheel with the detected center of the road wear reference line.
18. The on-roadway transportation vehicle localization method of claim 16, further comprising generating the image data using the at least one sensor mounted to the transportation vehicle.
19. The on-roadway transportation vehicle localization method of claim 18, wherein the at least one sensor is a Frequency Modulated Continuous Wave (FMCW) LiDAR sensor.
20. The on-roadway transportation vehicle localization method of claim 18, wherein the FMCW LiDAR provides coherent LiDAR using a continuously-emitting laser that varies frequency through a range and compares the frequency of returned signals with corresponding local reference signal to determine distance to a target.
21. The on-roadway transportation vehicle localization method of claim 18, wherein the transportation vehicle includes a plurality of sensors including the at least one sensor, the method further comprising providing autonomous and/or assistive functionality for operating the transportation vehicle to travel on the roadway by facilitating alignment of the center of the at least one wheel surface of the transportation vehicle wheel with the detected center of the road wear reference line, wherein the providing of the autonomous and/or assistive functionality analyzes data generated by the plurality of sensors to provide the autonomous and/or assistive functionality in the transportation vehicle.
22. The on-roadway transportation vehicle localization method of claim 21, wherein the autonomous and/or assistive functionality is provided by altering a weighting of sensor data from at least some of the plurality of sensors based on analysis of data indicating reliability and/or availability of the sensor data from the plurality of sensors.
23. The on-roadway transportation vehicle localization method of claim 18, wherein the means for analyzing image data analyzes LiDAR point cloud data including x, y, and z coordinates, intensity data, and radial velocity data.
24. The on-roadway transportation vehicle localization method of claim 18, wherein the means for analyzing image data uses deep neural network operations to perform feature extraction and classification based on low-dimensional characteristic features.
25. The on-roadway transportation vehicle localization method of claim 24, wherein the deep neural network operations utilize deep neural networks for performing machine learning methods for data analysis to transform high-dimensional sensor data generated by the at least one sensor to characteristic low dimensional features.
26. The on-roadway transportation vehicle localization method of claim 24, wherein the deep neural network operations utilize deep neural networks for performing machine learning methods for data analysis including speckle patterning analysis.
27. The on-roadway transportation vehicle localization method of claim 24, wherein the deep neural network operations utilize deep neural networks for performing machine learning methods for data analysis include as least one of application of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), Recurrent Neural Network (RNNs), use of convolutional autoencoders, application of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), Siamese/Triplet Networks, and/or Graph Neural Networks (GNNs).
28. The on-roadway transportation vehicle localization method of claim 16, wherein the facilitating alignment includes performing operations for warning of a lane departure to warn a driver of the transportation vehicle when the vehicle begins to move out of its lane of traffic on the roadway.
29. The on-roadway transportation vehicle localization method of claim 16, wherein the facilitating alignment includes performing lane operations for warning of a lane departure to control steering of the transportation vehicle to maintain its lane of traffic on the roadway.
30. The on-roadway transportation vehicle localization method of claim 16, wherein the analyzing of the image data depicting a roadway on which the transportation vehicle is travelling detects a presence or absence of road treatment material on the roadway based on the at least one sensor mounted to the transportation vehicle, wherein the data indicating the presence or absence of the road treatment material is taken into consideration for facilitating alignment so as to provide lane departure warning functionality.
31. A non-transitory, machine readable medium including machine readable software code, which, when executed on a processor, controls a method of performing on-roadway localization using equipment included in a transportation vehicle, the method comprising: analyzing image data depicting a roadway on which the transportation vehicle is travelling to detect at least one road wear reference line in a roadway on which the transportation vehicle is travelling, wherein the image data is generated using at least one sensor mounted to the transportation vehicle; and facilitating, by means coupled to the at least one sensor, of alignment of a center of at least one wheel surface of a transportation vehicle wheel with the detected center of the road wear reference line.
</claims>
</document>
