<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/332,G06F16/951,G06F3/16,G10L15/18,G10L15/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARTON, WILLIAM FOLWELL
BROWN, JR., CHASE WESLEY
HORST, BRANDON GERALD LI
SNOW, SHAYNE LEON
SPECTOR, DANIEL LEWIS
O'Donoghue, Fergus
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66996616
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEARCH AND KNOWLEDGE BASE QUESTION ANSWERING FOR A VOICE USER INTERFACE
</title>

<abstract>
A voice-controlled question answering system that is capable of answering questions using both a knowledge base and a search engine. The knowledge base is used to answer questions when answers to those questions are contained in the knowledge base. If an answer using the knowledge base is unavailable, and if the question is suitable for answering using an unstructured search approach, the system may obtain an answer using a search engine. The search engine results may be processed to obtain an answer to the question suitable for output using a voice user interface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving input data corresponding to a user input; determining the input data corresponds to an intent to receive information responsive to a query; determining, using the knowledge base, first data corresponding to a potential answer to the query; determining the first data fails to correspond to an answer to the query; sending data representing the query to a search component; receiving, from the search component, text data; and at least partially in response to determining that the first data fails to correspond to the answer to the query, causing audio data representing the text data to be output in response to the query.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: determining a source corresponding to the text data; and determining the audio data to include a representation of an indicator corresponding to the source.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: performing natural language understanding (NLU) on the input data to determine NLU result data; and processing the NLU result data to determine the input data corresponds to the intent to receive information responsive to a query.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 23, further comprising: receiving input audio data corresponding to the user input; and performing automatic speech recognition (ASR) on the input audio data to determine ASR results comprising the input data.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: processing the input data to determine a first portion corresponding to the query; and determining the data representing the query based at least in part on the first portion.
26. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein: the first data includes first confidence data corresponding to the knowledge base and the query; determining that the first data fails to correspond to an answer to the query is based at least in part on the first confidence data.
27. The computer-implemented method of claim 26, further comprising: determining the first confidence data fails to satisfy a threshold.
28. The computer-implemented method of claim 26, further comprising: determining second confidence data corresponding to the text data, wherein determining that the first data fails to correspond to an answer to the query is further based at least in part on the second confidence data.
29. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein: sending the data representing the query to the search component is performed at least partially in response to determining that the first data fails to correspond to an answer to the query.
30. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: processing the text data using a text-to-speech component to determine the audio data.
31. A system comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: receive input data corresponding to a user input; determine the input data corresponds to an intent to receive information responsive to a query; determine, using the knowledge base, first data corresponding to a potential answer to the query; determine the first data fails to correspond to an answer to the query; send data representing the query to a search component; receive, from the search component, text data; and at least partially in response to determining that the first data fails to correspond to the answer to the query, cause audio data representing the text data to be output in response to the query.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine a source corresponding to the text data; and determine the audio data to include a representation of an indicator corresponding to the source.
33. The system of claim 31, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: perform natural language understanding (NLU) on the input data to determine NLU result data; and process the NLU result data to determine the input data corresponds to the intent to receive information responsive to a query.
34. The system of claim 33, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: receive input audio data corresponding to the user input; and perform automatic speech recognition (ASR) on the input audio data to determine ASR results comprising the input data.
35. The system of claim 31, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: process the input data to determine a first portion corresponding to the query; and determine the data representing the query based at least in part on the first portion.
36. The system of claim 31, wherein: the first data includes first confidence data corresponding to the knowledge base and the query; and the instructions that cause the system to determine that the first data fails to correspond to an answer to the query are based at least in part on the first confidence data.
37. The system of claim 36, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine the first confidence data fails to satisfy a threshold.
38. The system of claim 36, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine second confidence data corresponding to the text data, wherein the instructions that cause the system to determine that the first data fails to correspond to an answer to the query are further based at least in part on the second confidence data.
39. The system of claim 31, wherein the instructions that cause the system to send the data representing the query to the search component are executed at least partially in response to determining that the first data fails to correspond to an answer to the query.
40. The system of claim 31, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: process the text data using a text-to-speech component to determine the audio data.
</claims>
</document>
