<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/26,G06N99/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
AGARWAL, NIPUN
BROWNSWORD, ANDREW
SCHELP, CRAIG
KOCBERBER, ONUR
SCHMIDT, FELIX
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70160095
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OUT OF BAND SERVER UTILIZATION ESTIMATION AND SERVER WORKLOAD CHARACTERIZATION FOR DATACENTER RESOURCE OPTIMIZATION AND FORECASTING
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described herein for estimating CPU, memory, and I/O utilization for a workload via out-of-band sensor readings using a machine learning model. The framework involves receiving sensor data associated with executing benchmark applications, obtaining ground truth utilization values for the benchmarks, preprocessing the training data to select a set of enhanced sequences, and using the enhanced sequences to train a random forest model to estimate CPU, memory, and I/O utilization given sensor monitoring data. Prior to the training phase, a machine learning model is trained using a set of predefined hyper-parameters. The trained models are used to generate estimations for CPU, memory, and I/O utilizations values. The utilization values are used with workload context information to assess the deployment and generate one or more recommendations for machine types that will best serve the workload in terms of system utilization.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: generating training data comprising training input data and training output data, said training input data comprising first input features generated from first sensor data from an out-of-band subsystem of a computer system said training output data including computer resource usage metrics about a first computer system; using the first input features and the training output data, training a particular machine learning model to predict workload utilization; receiving sensor data from a second out-of-band subsystem on a second computer; generating second input features based on said sensor data; generating a prediction of workload utilization on said second computer using said particular machine learning model; and wherein the method is performed by one or more computing devices.
2. The method of claim 1, further including generating training data by at least executing a set of one or more benchmark applications to generate workload metrics about workload utilization of a central processing unit (CPU) of said first computer system, wherein the first input features include values generated from sensor data about at least one of: CPU power usage; chassis power usage; output power supply; or input power supply.
3. The method of claim 1, further including generating training data by at least executing a set of one or more benchmark applications to generate workload metrics about memory bandwidth utilization, wherein the input features include values generated from sensor data about at least one of: output power supply; memory power usage; input power supply; or motherboard fan speed.
4. The method of claim 1, further including generating training data by at least: executing a set of one or more benchmark applications to generate network metrics about network I/O; and wherein the training data output includes data generated from switch utilization data generated on physical network switches.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the training the first input features includes a particular feature calculated from two or more other features of said first input features.
6. The method of claim 1, further including: generating candidate input features, each candidate input feature of said candidate input features being based on sensor data generated from a particular sensor of said out-of-band subsystem; for each candidate input feature of said candidate input features, determining a respective correlation between said each candidate input feature and at least one output feature of said training output data; and selecting a particular candidate feature of said candidate features to include as an input feature of said first input features based on the respective correlation determined for said candidate input feature.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the particular machine learning model is a random forest machine learning model.
8. A method, comprising: generating particular training data, said particular training data including particular training output data and particular training input data generated from particular server sensor data, said particular training output data including server usage metrics generated by at least one computer, network usage metrics generated by one or more devices connected to a first network or said at least one computer, memory usage metrics generated by said at least one computer; wherein generating particular training data includes generating: first training input features generated from said particular server sensor data, second training input features generated from said particular server sensor data, and third training input features generated from said particular server sensor data; using the first training input features and the server usage metrics, training a first machine learning model to predict workload utilization; using the second training input features and the memory usage metrics, training a second machine learning model to predict memory utilization; using the third training input features and the network usage metrics, training a third machine learning model to predict network utilization; generating second sensor data from a second out-of-band subsystem on a second computer; using the second sensor data: using the first machine learning model to generate a predicted workload utilization; using the second machine learning model to generate a predicted memory utilization; and using the third machine learning model to generate a predicted network utilization; and generating a signature comprising said predicted workload utilization, said predicated network utilization, said predicted memory utilization, and a context, said context specifying a machine type and a workload name identifying a workload type.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising determining, based on the generated signature, a deployment score, wherein the deployment score is an assessment regarding pairing the identified workload type with the specified machine type
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising determining, based on the assessment, a recommendation for a machine type for the identified workload type.
11. One or more non-transitory storage media storing sequences of instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause: generating training data comprising training input data and training output data, said training input data comprising first input features generated from first sensor data from an out-of-band subsystem of a computer system said training output data including computer resource usage metrics about a first computer system; using the first input features and the training output data, training a particular machine learning model to predict workload utilization; receiving sensor data from a second out-of-band subsystem on a second computer; generating second input features based on said sensor data; and generating a prediction of workload utilization on said second computer using said particular machine learning model.
12. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 11, wherein the sequences of instructions include instructions that, when executed by said one or more processors, cause generating training data by at least executing a set of one or more benchmark applications to generate workload metrics about workload utilization of a central processing unit (CPU) of said first computer system, wherein the first input features include values generated from sensor data about at least one of: CPU power usage; chassis power usage; output power supply; or input power supply.
13. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 11, wherein the sequences of instructions include instructions that, when executed by said one or more processors, cause generating training data by at least executing a set of one or more benchmark applications to generate workload metrics about memory bandwidth utilization, wherein the input features include values generated from sensor data about at least one of: output power supply; memory power usage; input power supply; or motherboard fan speed.
14. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 11, wherein the sequences of instructions include instructions that, when executed by said one or more processors, cause generating training data by at least: executing a set of one or more benchmark applications to generate network metrics about network I/O; and wherein the training data output includes data generated from switch utilization data generated on physical network switches.
15. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 11, wherein the training the first input features includes a particular feature calculated from two or more other features of said first input features.
16. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 11, wherein the sequences of instructions include instructions that, when executed by said one or more processors, cause: generating candidate input features, each candidate input feature of said candidate input features being based on sensor data generated from a particular sensor of said out-of-band subsystem; for each candidate input feature of said candidate input features, determining a respective correlation between said each candidate input feature and at least one output feature of said training output data; and selecting a particular candidate feature of said candidate features to include as an input feature of said first input features based on the respective correlation determined for said candidate input feature.
17. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 11, wherein the particular machine learning model is a random forest machine learning model.
18. One or more non-transitory storage media storing sequences of instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause: generating particular training data, said particular training data including particular training output data and particular training input data generated from particular server sensor data, said particular training output data including server usage metrics generated by at least one computer, network usage metrics generated by one or more devices connected to a first network or said at least one computer, memory usage metrics generated by said at least one computer; wherein generating particular training data includes generating: first training input features generated from said particular server sensor data, second training input features generated from said particular server sensor data, and third training input features generated from said particular server sensor data; using the first training input features and the server usage metrics, training a first machine learning model to predict workload utilization; using the second training input features and the memory usage metrics, training a second machine learning model to predict memory utilization; using the third training input features and the network usage metrics, training a third machine learning model to predict network utilization; generating second sensor data from a second out-of-band subsystem on a second computer; using the second sensor data: using the first machine learning model to generate a predicted workload utilization; using the second machine learning model to generate a predicted memory utilization; and using the third machine learning model to generate a predicted network utilization; and generating a signature comprising said predicted workload utilization, said predicated network utilization, said predicted memory utilization, and a context, said context specifying a machine type and a workload name identifying a workload type.
19. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 18, wherein the sequences of instructions include instructions that, when executed by said one or more processors, cause determining, based on the generated signature, a deployment score, wherein the deployment score is an assessment regarding pairing the identified workload type with the specified machine type
20. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 19, wherein the sequences of instructions include instructions that, when executed by said one or more processors, cause determining, based on the assessment, a recommendation for a machine type for the identified workload type.
</claims>
</document>
