<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S7/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMIZUR, YUVAL
BANIN, LEOR
DVORECKI, NIR
FRISHMAN, YANIV
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMIZUR, YUVAL
BANIN, LEOR
DVORECKI, NIR
FRISHMAN, YANIV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70326822
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ONLINE RADAR PHASE CALIBRATION THROUGH STATIC ENVIRONMENT MEASUREMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus comprising an antenna array comprising a plurality of antennas to receive a plurality of radar signals reflected by a plurality of objects responsive to a transmitted radar signal; a doppler measurement module to determine, for a first reflected radar signal of the plurality of reflected radar signals, a first doppler measurement indicating a velocity component based on a comparison of the first reflected radar signal to the transmitted radar signal; a phase offset measurement module to determine a first phase offset of the first reflected radar signal received at a first antenna of the plurality of antennas relative to a phase of the first reflected radar signal received at a reference antenna of the plurality of antennas; and a phase offset calibration module to determine, for the first antenna, a first phase offset calibration error based on the first doppler measurement and the first phase offset.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: an antenna array comprising a plurality of antennas to receive a plurality of radar signals reflected by a plurality of objects responsive to a transmitted radar signal; a doppler measurement module to determine, for a first reflected radar signal of the plurality of reflected radar signals, a first doppler measurement indicating a velocity component based on a comparison of the first reflected radar signal to the transmitted radar signal; a phase offset measurement module to determine a first phase offset of the first reflected radar signal received at a first antenna of the plurality of antennas relative to a phase of the first reflected radar signal received at a reference antenna of the plurality of antennas; and a phase offset calibration module to determine, for the first antenna, a first phase offset calibration error based on the first doppler measurement and the first phase offset.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the phase offset calibration module is to determine, for each object of the plurality of objects, a phase offset calibration error based on a doppler measurement and a phase offset measurement associated with the respective object.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first phase offset calibration error for the first antenna is a mean of the phase offset calibration errors determined for each object of the plurality of objects.
4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first phase offset calibration error for the first antenna is a trimmed mean of the phase offset calibration errors determined for each object of the plurality of objects.
5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first phase offset calibration error for the first antenna is a median of the phase offset calibration errors determined for each object of the plurality of objects.
6. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the plurality of objects includes stationary objects and moving objects.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the phase offset measurement module is to determine a second phase offset of the first reflected radar signal received at a second antenna of the plurality of antennas relative to the phase of the first reflected radar signal received at the reference antenna of the plurality of antennas; and the phase offset calibration module is to determine, for the second antenna, a second phase offset calibration error based on the first doppler measurement and the second phase offset.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an angle determination module to calculate an angle indicating a position of a first object that reflected the first reflected radar signal, the angle calculation based in part on a corrected phase offset calculated by subtracting the first phase offset calibration error from the first phase offset.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first phase offset calibration error is further based on a speed of a vehicle comprising the antenna array.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first phase offset calibration error is further based on a distance between the first antenna and the reference antenna.
11. A method comprising: receiving, by a plurality of antennas, a plurality of radar signals reflected by a plurality of objects responsive to a transmitted radar signal; determining, for a first reflected radar signal of the plurality of reflected radar signals, a first doppler measurement indicating a velocity component based on a comparison of the first reflected radar signal to the transmitted radar signal; determining a first phase offset of the first reflected radar signal received at a first antenna of the plurality of antennas relative to a phase of the first reflected radar signal received at a reference antenna of the plurality of antennas; and determining, for the first antenna, a first phase offset calibration error based on the first doppler measurement and the first phase offset.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising determining, for each object of the plurality of objects, a phase offset calibration error based on a doppler measurement and a phase offset measurement associated with the respective object.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining a second phase offset of the first reflected radar signal received at a second antenna of the plurality of antennas relative to the phase of the first reflected radar signal received at the reference antenna of the plurality of antennas; and determining, for the second antenna, a second phase offset calibration error based on the first doppler measurement and the second phase offset.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising calculating an angle indicating a position of a first object that reflected the first reflected radar signal, the angle calculation based in part on a corrected phase offset calculated by subtracting the first phase offset calibration error from the first phase offset.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising calculating a speed of a vehicle comprising the plurality of antennas and determining the first phase offset calibration error based on the speed of the vehicle.
16. A vehicle comprising: a processor; drive controls comprising an accelerator and a steering system; and a radar system to: receive, by a plurality of antennas, a plurality of radar signals reflected by a plurality of objects responsive to a transmitted radar signal; determine, for a first reflected radar signal of the plurality of reflected radar signals, a first doppler measurement indicating a velocity component based on a comparison of the first reflected radar signal to the transmitted radar signal; determine a first phase offset of the first reflected radar signal received at a first antenna of the plurality of antennas relative to a phase of the first reflected radar signal received at a reference antenna of the plurality of antennas; and determine, for the first antenna, a first phase offset calibration error based on the first doppler measurement and the first phase offset.
17. The vehicle of claim 16, the radar system to determine, for each object of the plurality of objects, a phase offset calibration error based on a doppler measurement and a phase offset measurement associated with the respective object.
18. The vehicle of claim 16, the radar system to: determine a second phase offset of the first reflected radar signal received at a second antenna of the plurality of antennas relative to the phase of the first reflected radar signal received at the reference antenna of the plurality of antennas; and determine, for the second antenna, a second phase offset calibration error based on the first doppler measurement and the second phase offset.
19. The vehicle of claim 16, the radar system to calculate an angle indicating a position of a first object that reflected the first reflected radar signal, the angle calculation based in part on a corrected phase offset calculated by subtracting the first phase offset calibration error from the first phase offset.
20. The vehicle of claim 16, wherein the radar system is to determine the first phase offset calibration error based on a speed of the vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
