<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/32,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G09G5/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOI, SEUNG JONG
CHOI, YUN JUN
KIM, DONG HO
KIM, SUNG JIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67807484
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISPLAY DEVICE AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to a display device and a display method for reducing a burn-in phenomenon by performing an on-board artificial intelligence (AI) algorithm and/or machine learning algorithm to predict a display duration of an object in an image, and processing the image based on the predicted display duration. The display method according to one embodiment of the present disclosure may include extracting a predetermined type of object from an inputted image, predicting a display duration of the extracted object, and adjusting a luminance value of a pixel in an area corresponding to the object in the image based on the predicted display duration, and displaying the image in which the adjusted luminance value of the pixel is reflected.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A display method for reducing a burn-in phenomenon, comprising: extracting a predetermined type of object from an inputted image; predicting a display duration of the extracted object; and adjusting a luminance value of a pixel in an area corresponding to the object in the image based on the predicted display duration, and displaying the image in which the adjusted luminance value of the pixel is reflected.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the extracting the object comprises performing a first deep neural network (DNN) algorithm on the image to extract the predetermined type of object from the image, and the predicting the display duration comprises performing a second deep neural network algorithm on the extracted object to predict the display duration of the object, and the first deep neural network is a learning model which has been trained in advance to recognize a logo, a word, and a text bar in the image, and the second deep neural network is a learning model which has been trained in advance to predict durations of the logo, the word, and the text bar appearing in the image.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the predicting the display duration comprises predicting the display duration based on at least one of a position or a size of the object in the image.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the extracting the object comprises extracting at least one of a logo, a word, or a text bar as the predetermined type of object.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the displaying the image comprises: detecting the luminance value of the pixel in the area corresponding to the object; determining a luminance adjustment value based on the predicted display duration; and adjusting the detected luminance value of the pixel based on the luminance adjustment value, and controlling the pixel according to the adjusted luminance value of the pixel.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the displaying the image further comprises detecting a color of the pixel in the area corresponding to the object, and the controlling the pixel comprises further adjusting the adjusted luminance value of the pixel based on the detected color of the pixel.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the controlling the pixel comprises, in response that the adjusted luminance value of the pixel is smaller than a predetermined minimum luminance value, controlling the pixel to the minimum luminance value.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the predicting the display duration comprises, in response that the type of object is a word, detecting an attribute of the word; and predicting the display duration based on the attribute of the word.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the displaying the image comprises, in response that the type of object is a logo, dividing the logo into a plurality of segments based on a luminance value of a pixel in the logo, and detecting a luminance value corresponding to each of the divided plurality of segments; determining a degree of burn-in effect for each luminance value for each of the plurality of segments in the logo; determining a luminance adjustment value for each of the plurality of segments based on the determined degree of burn-in effect for each luminance value and the predicted display duration of the logo; and adjusting the luminance value corresponding to each of the divided plurality of segments, based on the determined luminance adjustment value for each of the plurality of segments, and controlling pixels in the plurality of segments according to the adjusted luminance value.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the displaying the image comprises, in response that the type of object is a logo, dividing the logo into a plurality of segments based on a color of a pixel in the logo, and detecting a luminance value corresponding to each of the divided plurality of segments; determining a degree of burn-in effect for each luminance value for each of the plurality of segments in the logo; determining a luminance adjustment value for each of the plurality of segments based on the determined degree of burn-in effect for each color and the predicted display duration; and adjusting the luminance value corresponding to each of the divided plurality of segments, based on the determined luminance adjustment value for each of the plurality of segments, and controlling pixels in the plurality of segments according to the adjusted luminance value.
11. A display device configured to reduce a burn-in phenomenon, comprising: a predictor configured to extract a predetermined type of object from an inputted image, and predict a display duration of the extracted object; and a processor configured to adjust a luminance value of a pixel in an area corresponding to the object in the image based on the predicted display duration, and display the image in which the adjusted luminance value of the pixel is reflected.
12. The display device of claim 11, wherein the predictor is configured to perform a first deep neural network algorithm on the image to extract the predetermined type of object from the image, and perform a second deep neural network algorithm on the extracted object to predict the display duration of the object, and the first deep neural network is a learning model which has been trained in advance to recognize a logo, a word, and a text bar in the image, and the second deep neural network is a learning model which has been trained in advance to predict durations of the logo, the word, and the text bar appearing in the image.
13. The display device of claim 11, wherein the predictor is configured to predict the display duration based on at least one of a position or a size of the object in the image.
14. The display device of claim 11, wherein the predictor is configured to extract at least one of a logo, a word, or a text bar as the predetermined type of object.
15. The display device of claim 11, wherein the processor comprises, a detector configured to detect the luminance value of the pixel in the area corresponding to the object; a determiner configured to determine a luminance adjustment value based on the predicted display duration; and a controller configured to adjust the detected luminance value of the pixel based on the luminance adjustment value, and control the pixel according to the adjusted luminance value of the pixel.
16. The display device of claim 15, wherein the controller is configured to, in response that the detector further detects a color of the pixel in the area corresponding to the object, further adjust the adjusted luminance value of the pixel based on the detected color of the pixel.
17. The display device of claim 15, wherein the controller is configured to, in response that the adjusted luminance value of the pixel is smaller than a predetermined minimum luminance value, control the pixel to the minimum luminance value.
18. The display device of claim 11, wherein the predictor is configured to, in response that the type of object is a word, detect an attribute of the word and predict the display duration based on the attribute of the word.
19. The display device of claim 11, wherein the processor comprises, a detector configured to, in response that the type of object is a logo, divide the logo into a plurality of segments based on a luminance value of a pixel in the logo, and detect a luminance value corresponding to each of the divided plurality of segments; a determiner configured to determine a degree of burn-in effect for each luminance value for each of the plurality of segments in the logo and determine a luminance adjustment value for each of the plurality of segments based on the determined degree of burn-in effect for each luminance value and the predicted display duration; and a controller configured to adjust the luminance value corresponding to each of the divided plurality of segments, based on the determined luminance adjustment value for each of the plurality of segments, and control pixels in the plurality of segments according to the adjusted luminance value.
20. The display device of claim 11, wherein the processor comprises, a detector configured to, in response that the type of object is a logo, divide the logo into a plurality of segments based on a color of a pixel in the logo, and detect a luminance value corresponding to each of the divided plurality of segments; a determiner configured to determine a degree of burn-in effect for each color for each of the plurality of segments in the logo and determine a luminance adjustment value for each of the plurality of segments based on the determined degree of burn-in effect for each color and the predicted display duration; and a controller configured to adjust the luminance value corresponding to each of the divided plurality of segments, based on the determined luminance adjustment value for each of the plurality of segments, and control pixels in the plurality of segments according to the adjusted luminance value.
</claims>
</document>
