<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
URBAN DESIGN 4 HEALTH
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAPMAN, JAMES
FRANK, LAWRENCE D.
HONG, E-SOK
IROZ-ELARDO, NICOLE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69641576
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR DETECTING ENVIRONMENT FEATURES IN IMAGES, PREDICTING LOCATION-BASED HEALTH METRICS BASED ON ENVIRONMENT FEATURES, AND IMPROVING HEALTH OUTCOMES AND COSTS
</title>

<abstract>
Various aspects described herein relate to a location-based and population-based health metric processes. In one example, a computer-implemented method for generating one or more predicted health metrics for a location includes receiving a request to assess the one or more health metrics associated with the location, and identifying at least one current or future built, social, or natural environment parameter associated with the location. The method may further include calculating one or more predicted health metrics associated with the location based upon at least one of the current or future built, social, or natural environment parameters associated with the location, monetizing the healthcare costs of the predicted health metrics and displaying the one or more predicted health metrics and costs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving a request to predict one or more health metrics associated with a location; identifying at least one of a built environment parameter, a social environment parameter and a natural environment parameter associated with the location, wherein one or more of the at least one of the built environment parameter, the social environment parameter and the natural environment parameter is identified using a machine learning tool; calculating, via one or more processors, one or more predicted health metrics associated with the location based on the at least one of the built environment parameter, the social environment parameter and the natural environment parameter associated with the location; and displaying, via the one or more processors, the one or more predicted health metrics associated with the location.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving input comprising at least one new or modified built environment parameter associated with the location; calculating one or more predicted health metrics associated with the location based on the at least one new or modified built environment parameter; calculating one or more economic benefits resulting from a change in the predicted health metrics associated with the location, based upon the new or modified built environment parameter; and presenting the one or more economic benefits.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving input comprising at least one of a cost associated with the at least one new or modified built environment parameter and an estimated change in health care costs resulting from changes in the one or more predicted health metrics associated with the location as a result of the at least one new or modified built environment parameter; and displaying, via the one or more processors, one or more costs or benefits resulting from the at least one new or modified built environment parameter.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one new or modified built environment parameter comprises at least one of: residential density; intersection density; retail floor area ratio; land use mix; transit proximity; walkability metric; regional accessibility; and pedestrian environment.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the location comprises at least one of a census block group, a neighborhood, a borough, and a precinct, the method further comprising: calculating a population-weighted aggregation of predicted health metrics for at least one of: the census block group, the neighborhood, the borough, or the precinct; a subset of the neighborhood, the borough, or the precinct; and a user-selected subset of the neighborhood, borough, or precinct; and displaying the population-weighted aggregation of predicted health metrics.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying one or more of the predicted health metrics associated with the location in a tabular or geographic form.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the predicted health metric for the location comprises at least one of: physical activity; body mass index; rate of obesity; and at least one health outcome, wherein the health outcome comprises a likelihood to have at least one of a cardiovascular disease, hypertension, type-2 diabetes, and a mental health issue; wherein the predicted health metric is a mean or median value for a typical resident or a subpopulation of the location.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the built environment parameter comprises a parameter associated with at least one of: regional accessibility; walkability; and pedestrian environment.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the social environment parameter comprises at least one of: gender; race/ethnicity; age; number of vehicles owned per household; income; housing and transportation costs per year per household; distance to parks; and ozone concentration.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the natural environment parameter comprises: an area of developed open space in the location; a percent land area with tree canopy coverage in the location; ozone concentration in the location; and a distance to parks from the location.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: calculating one or more predicted health metrics associated with the location based on at least one new or modified built environment parameter; and calculating one or more economic benefits resulting from a change in the predicted health metrics associated with the location, based upon the at least one new or modified built environment parameter, wherein the one or more economic benefits comprise at least one of direct, indirect, and induced health effects predicted by at least one of: an econometric analysis; a cost-of-illness calculation that accounts for direct health care costs and indirect productivity costs; input-output modeling; a value of statistical life methodology; and directly measured relationships between built environment parameters and health care or productivity costs.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving one or more new or modified built, social or natural environment parameters selected by a user; generating at least one scenario, wherein the scenario comprises a model of the location based upon the new or modified built, social or natural environment parameters selected by the user; calculating one or more new predicted health metrics associated with the location modeled in the scenario; and displaying the one or more new predicted health metrics associated with the location modeled in the scenario.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: calculating one or more economic benefits resulting from changes to the one or more new predicted health metrics associated with the location modeled in the scenario; and displaying at least one of a cost and benefit associated with the location based upon a user-provided budget to fund the new or modified built, social or natural environment parameters, and an estimated change in health care costs resulting from changes in the one or more new predicted health metrics associated with the location modeled in the scenario.
14. A system comprising: one or more processors; and at least one computer-readable storage medium storing instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: receive a request to optimize at least one of one or more health metrics and one or more economic benefits associated with the location; generate at least one scenario comprising a model of the location based on at least one of a built environment parameter, a social environment parameter and a natural environment parameter; select a scenario that maximizes the at least one of one or more health metrics and one or more economic benefits associated with the location; and display (i) the one or more predicted health metrics or the one or more economic benefits associated with the location (ii) and at least one of a respective built environment parameter associated with the scenario selected, a respective social environment parameter associated with the scenario selected, and a respective natural environment parameter associated with the scenario selected.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the scenario is selected by at least one of: a global optimization of a health metric or economic benefit metric with modifiable built, social, or natural environment parameters; and an optimization of the health metric or economic benefit based upon user-selected restrictions comprising: an identification of at least one built, social, or natural environment parameter associated with the location which can be modified by the optimization; and a requirement to maximize one or more user-specified health metrics while minimizing user-provided or predicted implementation costs associated with modifications to a respective built environment.
16. The system of claim 14, the at least one computer-readable storage medium storing additional instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: collect, via a network, one or more images of the location; recognize, via a machine learning software tool, one or more environment parameters in the one or more images, the one or more environment parameters comprising one or more of the built environment parameter, the social environment parameter or the natural environment parameter; determine a validity of the one or more environment parameters based on a comparison with existing environment audit data to yield a comparison; and calibrate the machine learning software tool based on the comparison.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing computer-executable instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive a request to predict one or more health metrics associated with a location; identify at least one of a built environment parameter, a social environment parameter and a natural environment parameter associated with the location; calculate one or more predicted health metrics associated with the location based on the at least one of the built environment parameter, the social environment parameter and the natural environment parameter associated with the location; and display the one or more predicted health metrics associated with the location.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, storing additional computer-executable instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive input comprising at least one new or modified built environment parameter associated with the location; calculate one or more new predicted health metrics associated with the location based on the at least one new or modified built environment parameter; calculate one or more economic benefits resulting from a change between the one or more predicted health metrics and the one or more new predicted health metrics associated with the location; and present the one or more economic benefits.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, storing additional computer-executable instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive input comprising at least one of a cost associated with the at least one new or modified built environment parameter and an estimated change in health care costs resulting from changes in the one or more predicted health metrics associated with the location as a result of the at least one new or modified built environment parameter; and display one or more costs or benefits resulting from the at least one new or modified built environment parameter.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the location comprises at least one of one or more census block groups, neighborhoods, boroughs, and precincts, the non-transitory computer-readable medium storing additional computer-executable instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: calculate a population-weighted aggregation of predicted health metrics for at least one of: all of the one or more census block groups, neighborhoods, boroughs, or precincts; a subset of the one or more neighborhoods, boroughs, or precincts; and a user-selected subset of the one or more neighborhoods, boroughs, or precincts; and display the population-weighted aggregation of predicted health metrics.
</claims>
</document>
