<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/055,A61B6/00,A61B6/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ENLITIC
</assignee>

<inventors>
UPTON, ANTHONY
COVINGTON, BEN
LYMAN, KEVIN
DI DOMENICO, DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73047455
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDICAL SCAN ARTIFACT DETECTION SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR USE THEREWITH
</title>

<abstract>
A medical scan artifact detection system is operable to receive a medical scan of a patient. Artifact detection data is generated by executing an artifact detection function on the medical scan, where the artifact detection data indicates at least one artifact detected in the medical scan that includes a motion artifact or a nipple shadow. A notification is generated for display via a display device, where the notification indicates the at least one artifact.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A medical scan artifact detection system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory that stores operational instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the medical scan artifact detection system to: receive a medical scan of a patient; generate artifact detection data by executing an artifact detection function on the medical scan, wherein the artifact detection data indicates at least one artifact detected in the medical scan that includes a motion artifact or a nipple shadow; and generate a notification to for display via a display device, wherein the notification indicates the at least one artifact.
2. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 1, wherein the medical scan corresponds to a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan, wherein the artifact detection function is performed on raw signal data of the medical scan to detect the motion artifact.
3. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 1, wherein the medical scan corresponds to a chest x-ray, wherein the artifact detection function operates based on a computer vision model, and wherein the nipple shadow is detected by the artifact detection function in image data of the medical scan.
4. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 1, wherein raw signal data of the medical scan is received, and wherein the artifact detection function is performed on the raw signal data.
5. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 4, wherein a Fourier transform is performed on the raw signal data to produce image data, and wherein the Fourier transform is performed after the artifact detection function is performed on the raw signal data.
6. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 5, wherein the operational instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical scan artifact detection system to: generate artifact location data by determining at least one location of the at least one artifact in the image data based on the artifact detection data, wherein the image data and the artifact location data is transmitted to the client device, and wherein display of the artifact location data is superimposed upon the image data indicate the at least one location of the at least one artifact.
7. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 6, wherein the operational instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical scan artifact detection system to: receive a response transmission from a client device in response to the notification, wherein the response transmission is generated based on user input to an interactive interface displayed on the client device, and wherein the user input is entered by a user in response to a prompt displayed by the interactive interface to indicate whether the at least one artifact was detected correctly; and regenerate the artifact detection data to remove the at least one artifact in response to the response transmission indicating the at least one artifact was detected incorrectly.
8. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 4, wherein the raw signal data is received as a data stream from a medical imaging machine as the medical scan is being captured, wherein the artifact detection function is performed on the data stream in response to each of a plurality of new data segments of the data stream being received to generate the artifact detection data, and wherein the artifact detection data indicates the at least one artifact before capturing of the medical scan is complete.
9. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 8, wherein the operational instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical scan artifact detection system to: generate an interrupt instruction in response to the artifact detection data indicating the at least one artifact before capturing of the medical scan is complete, wherein the medical imaging machine foregoes completion of the capturing of the medical scan in response to receiving the interrupt instruction and in the absence of a deactivation command.
10. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 8, wherein the medical scan is captured by a medical imaging machine in accordance with a plurality of scan parameters, and wherein the operational instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical scan artifact detection system to: generate updated scan parameters in response to the artifact detection data indicating the at least one artifact before capturing of the medical scan is complete; and generate an instruction for transmission to the medical imaging machine that indicates the updated scan parameters, wherein a remainder of the capturing of the medical scan is performed by the medical imaging machine in accordance with the updated scan parameters.
11. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 1, wherein the operational instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical scan artifact detection system to: generate artifact cause data based on the artifact detection data, wherein the artifact cause data indicates at least one problem during capturing of the medical scan that caused the artifact detection data, and wherein the notification indicates the artifact cause data.
12. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 11, wherein the at least one problem corresponds to at least one patient movement made by the patient that caused the at least one artifact.
13. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 12, wherein generating the artifact cause data includes selecting one of a plurality of patient movement types that corresponds to the at least one patient movement based on the artifact detection data, and wherein the plurality of patient movement types correspond to a plurality of body parts capable of motion and to a plurality of motion types.
14. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 12, wherein the notification includes a patient instruction to refrain from making the at least one patient movement in a recapturing of the medical scan.
15. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 11, wherein the medical scan is captured by a medical imaging machine in accordance with a plurality of scan parameters, and wherein the at least one problem corresponds to at least one incorrect scan parameter that caused the at least one artifact.
16. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 15, wherein the operational instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical scan artifact detection system to: generate correct parameter data to correct the at least one incorrect scan parameter that caused the at least one artifact; wherein the medical scan of the patient is recaptured by the medical imaging machine in accordance with the correct parameter data.
17. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 1, wherein the operational instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical scan artifact detection system to: receive training set of medical scans and corresponding artifact detection data for the training set of medical scans; and generate a model by training on raw signal data of the training set of medical scans and the corresponding artifact detection data; wherein performing the artifact detection function includes performing an inference function that utilizes the model.
18. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 1, wherein the operational instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical scan artifact detection system to: generate cleaned medical scan data by performing an artifact removal function on raw signal data of the medical scan in response to the artifact detection data indicating the at least one artifact, wherein the cleaned medical scan data does not include the at least one artifact.
19. The medical scan artifact detection system of claim 18, wherein performing the artifact removal function includes: detecting an artifact signal pattern in the raw signal data; and applying an inverse signal pattern of the artifact signal pattern to the raw signal data.
20. A method for execution by medical scan artifact detection system that includes at least one processor, comprising: receiving a medical scan of a patient; generating artifact detection data by executing an artifact detection function on the medical scan, wherein the artifact detection data indicates at least one artifact detected in the medical scan; and generating a notification for display via a display device, wherein the notification indicates the at least one artifact.
</claims>
</document>
