<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06T7/00,G16B40/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
Kawas, Ban
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73550366
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IDENTIFYING SALIENT FEATURES FOR INSTANCES OF DATA
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method according to one embodiment includes identifying principal components for a dataset defined by data instances and features corresponding to the data instances, identifying, for at least one of the data instances, at least some of the principal components, wherein the identified principal components are determined to be salient for said at least one data instance, and determining, for said at least one of the data instances, one or more salient features corresponding to the identified salient principal components.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: identifying principal components for a dataset defined by (i) data instances and (ii) features corresponding to the data instances; identifying, for at least one of the data instances, at least some of the principal components, wherein the identified principal components are determined to be salient for said at least one data instance; and determining, for said at least one of the data instances, one or more salient features corresponding to the identified salient principal components.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said identifying principal components comprises: applying principal component analysis (PCA) to the dataset.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, the salient principal components being determined in view of their absolute values for said at least one data instance.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the number of salient principal components is preselected.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the salient principal components are selected in view of their magnitude.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the salient features are determined in view of the salient principal components.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the salient features are identified in view of the absolute value of their weights in a corresponding salient principal component.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein a predetermined number of salient features is selected for at least one of the salient principal components.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the dataset includes microbiome data.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the dataset includes genome-wide association studies (GWAS) data.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the dataset includes medical imaging data.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a cluster of data instances within the dataset that share the one or more salient features; and automatically applying a label to the cluster of data instances corresponding to the one or more salient features.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying one or more outliers within the dataset, utilizing the one or more salient features; and performing one or more actions, utilizing the one or more outliers from the dataset.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising reducing an amount of storage used to store the dataset by compressing at least one of the data instances utilizing their one or more salient features.
15. A computer program product for identifying salient features for instances of data, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: identifying, by the processor, principal components for a dataset defined by (i) data instances and (ii) features corresponding to the data instances; identifying, by the processor for at least one of the data instances, at least some of the principal components, wherein the identified principal components are determined to be salient for said at least one data instance; and determining, by the processor for said at least one of the data instances, one or more salient features corresponding to the identified salient principal components.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein said identifying principal components comprises: applying principal component analysis (PCA) to the dataset.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, the salient principal components being determined in view of their absolute values for said at least one data instance.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the number of salient principal components is preselected.
19. A system, comprising: a processor; and logic integrated with the processor, executable by the processor, or integrated with and executable by the processor, the logic being configured to: identify principal components for a dataset defined by (i) data instances and (ii) features corresponding to the data instances; identify, for at least one of the data instances, at least some of the principal components, wherein the identified principal components are determined to be salient for said at least one data instance; and determine, for said at least one of the data instances, one or more salient features corresponding to the identified salient principal components.
20. A computer-implemented method, comprising: identifying features found in at least one data instance; applying principal component analysis (PCA) to a dataset defined by (i) a plurality of data instances including the at least one data instance and (ii) features corresponding to the at least one data instance, thereby creating at least one principal component for the at least one data instance; identifying, for the at least one data instance, a subset of the at least one principal component, the subset indicating at least one principal component that is determined to be salient for the at least one data instance; determining, for the at least one data instance, a subset of the features, based on the subset of the principal components for the at least one data instance, the subset of the features indicating features that are determined to be salient for the at least one data instance; and performing one or more actions associated with the at least one data instance, utilizing the subset of the features determined to be salient for the at least one data instance.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 20, wherein each of the at least one principal component includes a linearly uncorrelated variable created by applying the PCA.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 20, wherein identifying the subset of the at least one principal component for the at least one data instance includes selecting a predetermined number of principal components for the at least one data instance that have the largest absolute values for principal components corresponding to each of the at least one data instance.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 20, wherein performing one or more actions associated with the at least one data instance includes labeling each of the at least one data instance with its corresponding subset of the features.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 20, wherein performing one or more actions associated with the at least one data instance includes training a machine learning apparatus, by utilizing the at least one data instance and the subset of the features determined for each of the at least one data instance.
25. A computer program product for identifying salient features for instances of data, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: identifying, by the processor, features found in at least one data instance; applying, by the processor, principal component analysis (PCA) to a dataset defined by (i) a plurality of data instances including the at least one data instance and (ii) features corresponding to the at least one data instance to create at least one principal component for the at least one data instance; identifying, by the processor for the at least one data instance, a subset of the at least one principal component, the subset indicating at least one principal component that is determined to be salient for the at least one data instance; determining, by the processor for the at least one data instance, a subset of the features, based on the subset of the principal components for the at least one data instance, the subset of the features indicating features that are determined to be salient for the at least one data instance; and performing, by the processor, one or more actions associated with the at least one data instance, utilizing the subset of the features determined to be salient for the at least one data instance.
</claims>
</document>
