<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04W24/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PLUME DESIGN
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOTCHKISS, ADAM
LI, PATRICK
MCFARLAND, WILLIAM
MILLER, ROBERT
RUSACKAS, EVAN
SINGLA, AMAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66096184
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Network operation center dashboard for cloud-based Wi-Fi systems
</title>

<abstract>
System and methods for managing a Wi-Fi network of a plurality of Wi-Fi networks from a cloud-based Network Operations Control (NOC) dashboard include, subsequent to creating an account for a user of the Wi-Fi network, receiving data associated with the Wi-Fi network from the one or more access points; providing a display associated with the Wi-Fi network based on the data, wherein the display comprises a network topology and one or more tabs providing information related to operation of the Wi-Fi network; updating the display based on one or more inputs received, wherein the updating updates one or more of the network topology and the one or more tabs; and performing one or more operations via the NOC dashboard to one of manage, control, and troubleshoot the Wi-Fi network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer readable code stored thereon for programming a computer to perform steps of: obtaining data, over the Internet, associated with a plurality of Wi-Fi networks each Wi-Fi network having one or more access points and each Wi-Fi network being associated with a user; providing a user interface to visually present the data in a network topology and one or more tabs providing information related to operation of one or more Wi-Fi networks of the plurality of Wi-Fi networks; and updating the user interface based on one or more inputs, wherein the updating modifies one or more of the network topology and the one or more tabs, wherein the one or more inputs are for any of management, control, and troubleshooting of the one or more Wi-Fi networks.
2. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein at least two of the plurality of Wi-Fi networks are located at different locations.
3. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the computer readable code is further configured to program the computer to perform steps of establishing or changing a Service Set Identifier (SSID) of a Wi-Fi network and establishing or changing a password for accessing the Wi-Fi network, and propagating the SSID and the password to the Wi-Fi network.
4. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the computer readable code is further configured to program the computer to perform steps of setting of network parameters of a Wi-Fi network including any of Domain Name System (DNS) settings, Universal Plug and Play (UPnP), Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) reservations, bridge versus router mode, and port forwarding settings.
5. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the computer readable code is further configured to program the computer to perform steps of causing a specific access point in a Wi-Fi network to provide an indicator for a local user to identify.
6. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the user interface includes metrics for different frequency bands, different frequency channels, and/or different time periods.
7. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the user interface includes information regarding any of graphs with indications for both uplink traffic and downlink traffic, channel changes, band steering, client steering, and capacity of an access point.
8. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the user interface includes information visually displaying physical layer data rates and speeds on individual links.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the user interface includes a history of software updates to in the plurality of Wi-Fi networks.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the network topology includes both wired and wireless connections and both wireless backhaul links and wireless client links.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the network topology includes devices that are offline and an indication they are offline.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the user interface includes an indication, for each of access point in the one or more Wi-Fi networks, of an expected throughput that a client connected to an associated access point could achieve.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the network topology includes icons that resemble physical shapes of the devices.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the one or more tabs display information related to one or more access point devices or wireless links, wherein a health score is displayed for each of the one or more access point devices or wireless links, and wherein the health score is a weighted combination of a plurality of factors.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the one or more tabs comprise one or more of a status of the optimization, a history of optimizations, a reason for an optimization, and statistics associated with the optimization.
16. An apparatus executing a cloud-based Network Operations Control (NOC) dashboard for management of a plurality of Wi-Fi networks, the apparatus comprising: a network interface communicatively coupled to the plurality of Wi-Fi networks via the Internet; a processor communicatively coupled to the network interface; and memory storing instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to: obtain data, over the Internet, associated with the plurality of Wi-Fi networks each Wi-Fi network having one or more access points and each Wi-Fi network being associated with a user; provide a user interface to visually present the data in a network topology and one or more tabs providing information related to operation of one or more Wi-Fi networks of the plurality of Wi-Fi networks; and update the user interface based on one or more inputs, wherein the updating modifies one or more of the network topology and the one or more tabs, wherein the one or more inputs are for any of management, control, and troubleshooting of the one or more Wi-Fi networks.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein at least two of the plurality of Wi-Fi networks are located at different locations.
18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to establish or change a Service Set Identifier (SSID) of a Wi-Fi network and establish or change a password for accessing the Wi-Fi network, and propagate the SSID and the password to the Wi-Fi network.
19. A method comprising: obtaining data, over the Internet, associated with a plurality of Wi-Fi networks each Wi-Fi network having one or more access points and each Wi-Fi network being associated with a user; providing a user interface to visually present the data in a network topology and one or more tabs providing information related to operation of one or more Wi-Fi networks of the plurality of Wi-Fi networks; and updating the user interface based on one or more inputs, wherein the updating modifies one or more of the network topology and the one or more tabs, wherein the one or more inputs are for any of management, control, and troubleshooting of the one or more Wi-Fi networks.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein at least two of the plurality of Wi-Fi networks are located at different locations.
</claims>
</document>
