<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/00,G06F40/30,G06N5/02,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
TUMMALAPENTA, SRINIVAS B.
NGO, HUYANH D.
BHATIA, AANKUR
AGUILERA, CARLOS E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70051358
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Artificial intelligence assisted rule generation
</title>

<abstract>
A method improves a security of a computer system by building a new set of rules for the computer system. One or more processors input a plurality of client profiles to an artificial intelligence (AI) system, where the plurality of client profiles are based on an analysis of respective client environments comprising client assets and an intrusion detection alert history of a plurality of clients. The processor(s) match a new client profile to a respective client profile from the plurality of client profiles. The processor(s) build a new set of rules for the new client based on a similarity measure of the new client profile to the respective client profile. The processor(s) subsequently receive information indicating that a violation of the new set of rules has occurred and then execute a security feature of the computer system in order to resolve the violation of the new set of rules.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: inputting, by one or more processors, a plurality of client profiles to an artificial intelligence (AI) system, wherein the plurality of client profiles are based on an analysis of respective client environments comprising client assets and an intrusion detection alert history of a plurality of clients; matching, by the one or more processors, a new client profile for a new client to a respective client profile from the plurality of client profiles, wherein the respective client profile is for a particular client from the plurality of clients; building, by the one or more processors, a new set of rules for the new client based on a similarity measure of the new client profile to the respective client profile; receiving, by the one or more processors, information indicating that a violation of the new set of rules has occurred; and in response to the new set of rules being violated, executing, by the one or more processors, a security feature of a computer system of the new client in order to resolve the violation of the new set of rules.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: vectoring, by the one or more processors, the new set of rules to create a vectorized rule set; and testing, by the one or more processors, the new set of rules by inputting the vectorized rule set of the new set of rules in the AI system in order to test the new set of rules against the intrusion detection alert history.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying, by the one or more processors, natural language processing (NLP) to determine a similarity between environments of the new client and the particular client; and matching, by the one or more processors, the new client profile to the respective client profile based on the similarity between the environments of the new client and the particular client.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the AI system develops the new set of rules, wherein the new set of rules includes alerts for respective rules, and wherein the AI system transmits the new set of rules to security system components for the computer system.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: installing, by the one or more processors, the new set of rules into an intrusion detection system.
6. A method comprising: inputting, by one or more processors, a plurality of client profiles to an artificial intelligence (AI) system, wherein the plurality of client profiles are based on an analysis of respective client environments comprising client assets and an intrusion detection alert history of a plurality of clients; matching, by the one or more processors, a new client profile for a new client to a respective client profile from the plurality of client profiles, wherein the respective client profile is for a particular client from the plurality of clients; building, by the one or more processors, a new rule for the new client based on a rule used by the particular client; receiving, by the one or more processors, information indicating that a violation of the new rule has occurred; and in response to the new rule being violated, executing, by the one or more processors, a security feature of a computer system of the new client in order to resolve the violation of the new rule.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: vectoring, by the one or more processors, the new rule to create a vectorized rule; and testing, by the one or more processors, the new rule by inputting the vectorized rule in the AI system in order to test the new rule against the intrusion detection alert history.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising: applying, by the one or more processors, natural language processing (NLP) to determine a similarity between environments of the new client and the particular client; and matching, by the one or more processors, the new client profile to the respective client profile based on the similarity between the environments of the new client and the particular client.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the AI system develops the new rule, wherein the new rule includes alerts for respective rules, and wherein the AI system transmits the new rule to security system components for the computer system.
10. The method of claim 6, further comprising: installing, by the one or more processors, the new rule into an intrusion detection system.
11. A method comprising: inputting, by one or more processors, a plurality of client profiles to an artificial intelligence (AI) system, wherein the plurality of client profiles are based on an analysis of respective client environments comprising client assets and an intrusion detection alert history of a plurality of clients; matching, by the one or more processors, a new client profile for a new client to a respective client profile from the plurality of client profiles, wherein the respective client profile is for a particular client from the plurality of clients; assigning, by the one or more processors, a particular rule from the particular client to the new client based on the new client profile matching the respective client profile; receiving, by the one or more processors, information indicating that a violation of the particular rule has occurred; and in response to the particular rule being violated, executing, by the one or more processors, a security feature of a computer system of the new client in order to resolve the violation of the particular rule.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: vectoring, by the one or more processors, the particular rule to create a vectorized rule; and testing, by the one or more processors, the particular rule by inputting the vectorized rule in the AI system in order to test the particular rule against the intrusion detection alert history.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: applying, by the one or more processors, natural language processing (NLP) to determine a similarity between environments of the new client and the particular client; and matching, by the one or more processors, the new client profile to the respective client profile based on the similarity between the environments of the new client and the particular client.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the AI system develops the particular rule, wherein the particular rule includes alerts for respective rules, and wherein the AI system transmits the particular rule to security system components for the computer system.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: installing, by the one or more processors, the particular rule into an intrusion detection system.
16. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, and wherein the program code is readable and executable by a processor to perform a method comprising: inputting a plurality of client profiles to an artificial intelligence (AI) system, wherein the plurality of client profiles are based on an analysis of respective client environments comprising client assets and an intrusion detection alert history of a plurality of clients; matching a new client profile for a new client to a respective client profile from the plurality of client profiles, wherein the respective client profile is for a particular client from the plurality of clients; building a new set of rules for the new client based on a similarity measure of the new client profile to the respective client profile; receiving information indicating that a violation of the new set of rules has occurred; and in response to the new set of rules being violated, executing a security feature of a computer system of the new client in order to resolve the violation of the new set of rules.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: vectoring the new set of rules to create a vectorized rule set; and testing the new set of rules by inputting the vectorized rule set of the new set of rules in the AI system in order to test the new set of rules against the intrusion detection alert history.
18. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: applying natural language processing (NLP) to determine a similarity between environments of the new client and the particular client; and matching the new client profile to the respective client profile based on the similarity between the environments of the new client and the particular client.
19. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the AI system develops the new set of rules, wherein the new set of rules includes alerts for respective rules, and wherein the AI system transmits the new set of rules to security system components for the computer system.
20. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the program instructions are provided as a service in a cloud environment.
21. A computer system comprising one or more processors, one or more computer readable memories, and one or more computer readable non-transitory storage mediums, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more computer readable non-transitory storage mediums for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more computer readable memories, the stored program instructions executed to perform a method comprising: inputting a plurality of client profiles to an artificial intelligence (AI) system, wherein the plurality of client profiles are based on an analysis of respective client environments comprising client assets and an intrusion detection alert history of a plurality of clients; matching a new client profile for a new client to a respective client profile from the plurality of client profiles, wherein the respective client profile is for a particular client from the plurality of clients; building a new set of rules for the new client based on a similarity measure of the new client profile to the respective client profile; receiving information indicating that a violation of the new set of rules has occurred; and in response to the new set of rules being violated, executing a security feature of a computer system of the new client in order to resolve the violation of the new set of rules.
22. The computer system of claim 21, wherein the method further comprises: vectoring the new set of rules to create a vectorized rule set; and testing the new set of rules by inputting the vectorized rule set of the new set of rules in the AI system in order to test the new set of rules against the intrusion detection alert history.
23. The computer system of claim 21, wherein the method further comprises: applying natural language processing (NLP) to determine a similarity between environments of the new client and the particular client; and matching the new client profile to the respective client profile based on the similarity between the environments of the new client and the particular client.
24. The computer system of claim 21, wherein the AI system develops the new set of rules, wherein the new set of rules includes alerts for respective rules, and wherein the AI system transmits the new set of rules to security system components for the computer system.
25. The computer system of claim 21, wherein the program instructions are provided as a service in a cloud environment.
</claims>
</document>
