<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHANMUGAM, KARTHIKEYAN
VACULIN, ROMAN
SARPATWAR, KANTHI
Ganapavarapu, Venkata Sitaramagiridharganesh
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73735952
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AGGREGATED MACHING LEARNING VERIFICATION FOR DATABASE
</title>

<abstract>
An example operation may include one or more of generating, by a plurality of training participant clients, gradient calculations for machine learning model training, each of the training participant clients comprising a training dataset, converting, by a training aggregator coupled to the plurality of training participant clients, the gradient calculations to a plurality of transaction proposals, receiving, by one or more endorser nodes or peers of a blockchain network, the plurality of transaction proposals, executing, by each of the endorser nodes or peers, a verify gradient smart contract, and providing endorsements corresponding to the plurality of transaction proposals to the training aggregator.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a training participant network, comprising: a plurality of training participant clients, each comprising a training dataset and configured to: generate gradient calculations that each correspond to a training iteration for machine learning model training using stochastic gradient descent, the machine learning model training comprising a plurality of training iterations; and a training aggregator, coupled to each of the plurality of training participation clients, and configured to convert gradient calculations into a plurality of transaction proposals; a blockchain network, comprising: one or more endorser nodes or peers, each comprising a verify gradient smart contract and configured to endorse the plurality of transaction proposals.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the verify gradient smart contract does not perform gradient calculation, wherein the verify gradient smart contract verifies results of gradient calculations from the transaction proposals.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the training aggregator converts gradient calculations into the plurality of transaction proposals comprises the training aggregator configured to: receive the gradient calculations and metadata from each of the plurality of training participation clients; and create a separate transaction proposal from the received metadata for each training participation client.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the transaction proposals specify a batch from the training dataset, a loss function, current parameter weights, and a gradient calculation, wherein the batch comprises a subset of samples from the training dataset for a training iteration.
5. The system of claim 2, wherein data and model parameters that correspond to the training dataset are stored outside the blockchain network, wherein verification-related data is stored in a blockchain for the blockchain network.
6. The system of claim 2, wherein the one or more endorser nodes or peers are configured to endorse the plurality of transaction proposals comprises the one or more endorser nodes are further configured to: receive the plurality of transaction proposals; execute the verify gradient smart contract on each of the transaction proposals; and provide endorsements that correspond to the plurality of transaction proposals, wherein the training aggregator is further configured to: receive the endorsements; include the endorsements in transactions; submit the transactions to the blockchain network; apply aggregated endorsed gradients to an original machine learning model; and submit a new transaction proposal with an updated machine learning model.
7. The system of claim 2, wherein the one or more endorser nodes or peers not comprising the verify gradient smart contract, wherein the one or more endorser nodes forward the plurality of transaction proposals to an independent auditor outside the blockchain network, wherein the independent auditor comprises the verify gradient smart contract and is configured to: receive the plurality of transaction proposals; execute the verify gradient smart contract on each of the plurality of transaction proposals; and provide verification results that correspond to the plurality of transaction proposals to the endorser nodes or peers.
8. A method, comprising: generating, by a plurality of training participant clients, gradient calculations for machine learning model training, each of the training participant clients comprising a training dataset; converting, by a training aggregator coupled to the plurality of training participant clients, the gradient calculations to a plurality of transaction proposals; receiving, by one or more endorser nodes or peers of a blockchain network, the plurality of transaction proposals; executing, by each of the endorser nodes or peers, a verify gradient smart contract; and providing endorsements corresponding to the plurality of transaction proposals to the training aggregator.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the verify gradient smart contract does not perform gradient calculation, wherein the verify gradient smart contract verifies results of gradient calculations from the transaction proposals.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein converting the gradient calculations to the plurality of transaction proposals comprising: receiving the gradient calculations and metadata from each of the plurality of training participation clients; and creating a separate transaction proposal from the received metadata for each training participation client, wherein each of the plurality of transaction proposals corresponding to a training iteration for machine learning model training using stochastic gradient descent, the machine learning model training comprising a plurality of training iterations.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the transaction proposals specify a batch from the training dataset, a loss function, current parameter weights, and a gradient calculation, wherein the batch comprises a subset of samples from the training dataset for a training iteration.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein data and model parameters corresponding to the training dataset are stored outside the blockchain network, wherein verification-related data is stored in a blockchain for the blockchain network.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving the endorsements; applying endorsed gradient calculations to the machine learning model; including, by the training aggregator, the endorsements in a transaction; and submitting the transaction to the blockchain network.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more endorser nodes or peers not comprising the verify gradient smart contract, wherein the method further comprising: forwarding, by the one or more endorser nodes, the transaction proposals to an independent auditor outside the blockchain network, wherein the independent auditor comprising the verify gradient smart contract, wherein the method further comprising: receiving, by the independent auditor, the plurality of transaction proposals; executing the verify gradient smart contract; and providing, by the independent auditor, verification results corresponding to the plurality of transaction proposals to the one or more endorser nodes or peers.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions, that when read by a processor, cause the processor to perform: generating, by a plurality of training participant clients, gradient calculations for machine learning model training, each of the training participant clients comprising a training dataset; converting, by a training aggregator coupled to the plurality of training participant clients, the gradient calculations to a plurality of transaction proposals; receiving, by one or more endorser nodes or peers of a blockchain network, the plurality of transaction proposals; executing, by each of the endorser nodes or peers, a verify gradient smart contract; and providing endorsements corresponding to the plurality of transaction proposals to the training aggregator.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the verify gradient smart contract does not perform gradient calculation, wherein the verify gradient smart contract verifies results of gradient calculations from the transaction proposals.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein converting the gradient calculations to the plurality of transaction proposals comprising: receiving the gradient calculations and metadata from each of the plurality of training participation clients; and creating a separate transaction proposal from the received metadata for each training participation client, wherein each of the plurality of transaction proposals corresponding to a training iteration for machine learning model training using stochastic gradient descent, the machine learning model training comprising a plurality of training iterations.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the transaction proposals specify a batch from the training dataset, a loss function, current parameter weights, and a gradient calculation, wherein the batch comprises a subset of samples from the training dataset for a training iteration, wherein data and model parameters corresponding to the training dataset are stored outside the blockchain network, wherein verification-related data is stored in a blockchain for the blockchain network.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, further comprising: receiving the endorsements; applying endorsed gradient calculations to the machine learning model; including, by the training aggregator, the endorsements in a transaction; and submitting the transaction to the blockchain network.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the one or more endorser nodes or peers not comprising the verify gradient smart contract, wherein the instructions cause the processor to further perform: forwarding, by the one or more endorser nodes, the transaction proposals to an independent auditor outside the blockchain network, wherein the independent auditor comprising the verify gradient smart contract, wherein the instructions cause the processor to further perform: receiving, by the independent auditor, the plurality of transaction proposals; executing the verify gradient smart contract; and providing, by the independent auditor, verification results corresponding to the plurality of transaction proposals to the one or more endorser nodes or peers.
</claims>
</document>
