<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/16,A61J1/03,G06Q30/00,G16H10/20,G16H10/60,G16H20/10,G16H50/20,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Closed Loop Medicine Ltd.
</assignee>

<inventors>
COX, DAVID
Yadi, Hakim Adam
Knight, Richard Edward
Sartain, Felicity Kate
Goldsmith, Paul
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70918715
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Monitoring Patient Compliance with a Dosage Regimen
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to monitoring patient compliance with a dosage regimen. In some aspects, a patient unique identifier, which enables a patient to be uniquely identified and associated with a patient record, is received. A message is received. The message includes a package unique identifier that enables a package that a drug administered to the patient was stored within to be uniquely identified. The message includes at least one pair of values, wherein each pair of values corresponds to an administration event and indicates an amount of the drug administered to the patient and a time of administration of the amount of the drug to the patient. The drug administered to the patient using the package unique identifier is identified. The identity of the drug and the at least one pair of values are stored against the patient record, which includes a dosage regimen associated with the patient.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for monitoring the adherence of a patient to a dosage regimen, the method comprising: receiving, by a data processing device, a patient unique identifier that enables the patient to be uniquely identified and associated with a patient record; receiving, by the data processing device, a message, wherein the message includes: a package unique identifier that enables a package that a drug administered to the patient was stored within to be uniquely identified; and at least one pair of values, each pair of values corresponding to an administration event and indicating an amount of the drug administered to the patient and a time of administration of the amount of the drug to the patient; the method further comprising: identifying, by the data processing device, the drug administered to the patient using the package unique identifier; and storing, in a database, the identity of the drug and the at least one pair of values against the patient record, the patient record including the dosage regimen associated with the patient.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: comparing, by the data processing device, the at least one pair of values with the dosage regimen; calculating, by the data processing device and based on the comparing, a compliance score indicative of the degree to which the patient has complied with the dosage regimen; and storing, by the data processing device, the compliance score in the database against the patient record.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: providing, by the data processing device, a recommended modification to the dosage regimen based on at least one of the identity of the drug and the at least one pair of values.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: providing, by the data processing device, a recommended modification to the dosage regimen based on any combination of: the identity of the drug, the at least one pair of values, and the compliance score.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the data processing device, one or more environmental parameters that characterise an environment experienced by the patient; storing, in the database, the one or more environmental parameters against the patient record; and providing, by the data processing device, a recommended modification to the dosage regimen based on at least one of the one or more environmental parameters.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the data processing device, behavioural data indicative of a behaviour of the patient; storing, in the database against the patient record, the behavioural data; and providing, by the data processing device, a recommended modification to the dosage regimen based on at least the behavioural data.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the data processing device, physiological data relating to the patient; storing, in the database against the patient record, the physiological data; and providing, by the data processing device, a recommended modification to the dosage regimen based on at least the physiological data.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the data processing device, package data relating to the physical condition of the package; storing, in the database against the patient record, the package data; and providing, by the data processing device, a recommended modification to the dosage regimen based on at least the package data.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: storing, by the data processing device, a modified dosage regimen against the patient record.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: generating, by the data processing device, the modified dosage regimen based on a recommended modification to the dosage regimen; or receiving, at the data processing device, the patient unique identifier and the modified dosage regimen.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: transmitting, by the data processing device, a message to a second data processing device, the message including the modified dosage regimen.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the second data processing device is a patient data processing device or a healthcare provider data processing device.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the modified dosage regimen comprises an improved dosage regimen.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein the improved dosage regimen is a reduction in an amount of the drug.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the second data processing device is any one of: a mobile telephone, a tablet computer, a desktop computer, a voice-activated computing system, a laptop, a gaming system, a vehicular computing system, a wearable device, a smart watch, a smart television, an internet of things device, a medicament-dispensing device and a device including a drug pump.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the package is a carton, a blister pack, a dosette box, a bottle, a tube, a syringe, a pre-filled syringe, a cartridge, a vial or a canister.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the package is a blister pack comprising: at least one blister in which the drug is stored; at least one electrical wire traversing the blister; an embedded data processing device embedded in the blister pack and coupled to the at least one electrical wire; at least one memory module coupled to the embedded data processing device; a transmitter or transceiver coupled to the embedded data processing device; and a mechanism for encoding the package unique identifier; the method further comprising: detecting, by the embedded data processing device, a break in the at least one electrical wire; storing, by the embedded data processing device in the at least one memory module, at least a time at which the at least one electrical wire was broken and a blister identifier associated with the blister traversed by the at least one electrical wire that was broken.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the package comprises at least one blister containing the drug in a first amount and at least one blister containing the drug in a second amount.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the package comprises at least one blister containing the drug and at least one blister containing a second, different drug.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, further comprising: recording, by the embedded data processing device in the at least one memory module, any combination of the following parameters: a physical location of the blister pack at the time the at least one electrical wire was broken; and at least one parameter characterising the local environment of the blister pack at the time the at least one electrical wire was broken.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the at least one pair of values is based upon data stored in the at least one memory module.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the mechanism for encoding the package unique identifier is any one or more of: a visual indicator printed on the blister pack; a NFC-enabled integrated circuit; and a Bluetooth-enabled integrated circuit.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the transmitter or transceiver is one of: a Bluetooth transmitter or transceiver; a NFC transmitter or transceiver; and a radio transmitter or transceiver suitable for communication over a cellular network.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the blister pack comprises at least a first blister and a second blister, the first blister containing a first tablet comprising the drug in a first amount and the second blister containing a second tablet comprising the drug in a second, different amount.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the blister pack comprises at least a first blister and a second blister, the first blister containing a first tablet comprising the drug and the second blister containing a second tablet comprising a second, different drug.
26. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the blister pack comprises at least a first blister, a second blister, and a third blister, the first blister containing a first tablet comprising the drug in a first amount, the second blister containing a second tablet comprising the drug in a second, different amount and the third blister containing a third tablet comprising a second, different drug.
27. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a request for the patient record to be updated to include a second package unique identifier corresponding to a package that has been dispensed to the patient; and storing, by the data processing device, the second package unique identifier against the patient record.
28. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the data processing device, a request to dispense medication, the request including the patient unique identifier; transmitting, by the data processing device, an instruction to dispense a package selected based on the dosage regimen that is stored in the patient record corresponding to the patient unique identifier, the instruction including a second package unique identifier corresponding to the selected package; and storing the second package unique identifier against the patient record.
29. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the patient is enrolled in a clinical trial and the patient unique identifier was assigned to the patient during enrolment in the clinical trial.
30. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising program instructions that, when executed by a data processing device, cause the data processing device to perform the following actions: receive a patient unique identifier that enables the patient to be uniquely identified and associated with a patient record; receive a message, wherein the message includes: a package unique identifier that enables a package that a drug administered to the patient was stored within to be uniquely identified; and at least one pair of values, each pair of values corresponding to an administration event and indicating an amount of the drug administered to the patient and a time of administration of the amount of the drug to the patient; identify the drug administered to the patient using the package unique identifier; and store, in a database, the identity of the drug and the at least one pair of values against the patient record, the patient record including the dosage regimen associated with the patient.
31. A data processing device that is configured to perform the following actions: receive a patient unique identifier that enables the patient to be uniquely identified and associated with a patient record; receive a message, wherein the message includes: a package unique identifier that enables a package that a drug administered to the patient was stored within to be uniquely identified; and at least one pair of values, each pair of values corresponding to an administration event and indicating an amount of the drug administered to the patient and a time of administration of the amount of the drug to the patient; identify the drug administered to the patient using the package unique identifier; and store, in a database, the identity of the drug and the at least one pair of values against the patient record, the patient record including the dosage regimen associated with the patient.
</claims>
</document>
