<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/05,A61B6/00,G16H40/63,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOYOTA MOTOR ENGINEERING & MANUFACTURING NORTH AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOU, CHUNGCHIH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71072884
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR INCORPORATING A SCANNER INTO A VEHICLE
</title>

<abstract>
Example systems and methods relate to placing a body scanners at entrances to vehicles such as buses or cars. The scans generated by the various body scanners can be used to generate a profile for each user that is continuously updated over time. The profile for each user can be used for a variety of purposes such as identifying positive or negative health trends (e.g., weight loss or gain), or authenticating the user. Furthermore, the scans can be used to determine if a user is sick (e.g., has a fever), and if so, select a seat in the vehicle for the user that is away from other passengers or to adjust the climate control system of the vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for collecting biometric data about a passenger of a vehicle, the system comprising: one or more processors; a memory communicably coupled to the one or more processors and storing: a scanning module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: perform a scan of a passenger of a vehicle; and based on the scan of the passenger of the vehicle, generate biometric data regarding the passenger of the vehicle; a profile module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: determine a profile of the passenger of the vehicle, the profile including previously generated biometric data; and add the generated biometric data to the profile of the passenger of the vehicle; and a health module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: compare the generated biometric data with the previously generated biometric data; and determine a health condition of the passenger based on the comparison.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the health module further includes instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: alert one or both of the passenger or a driver of the vehicle about the health condition.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising an authentication module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: authenticate the passenger based on the generated biometric data; and allow the passenger entry into the vehicle based on the authentication.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the health condition comprises one or more of weight loss or weight gain.
5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a clothing module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: determine a plurality of clothing items worn by the passenger based on the scan; receive weather data; and based at least in part on the determined plurality of clothing items and the weather data, recommend at least one additional clothing item to the passenger, wherein the at least one additional clothing item is not part of the determined plurality of clothing items.
6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a clothing module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: determine a plurality of clothing items worn by the passenger based on the scan; receiving calendar data associated with the passenger; and based at least in part on the determined plurality of clothing items and the calendar data, recommend at least one additional clothing item to the passenger, wherein the at least one additional clothing item is not part of the determined plurality of clothing items.
7. A method for collecting biometric data about a passenger of a vehicle, the method comprising: performing a scan of a passenger of a vehicle; based on the scan, generating biometric data regarding the passenger of the vehicle; determining a profile of the passenger of the vehicle; and adding the generated biometric data to the profile of the passenger of the vehicle.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein performing the scan comprises performing the scan using one or more of a camera, a backscatter x-ray scanner, and a millimeter wave scanner.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: determining a health condition of the passenger based on the generated biometric data; and alerting the passenger of the health condition.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: alerting a driver of the vehicle of the health condition.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the health condition comprising one or more of high blood pressure, a high pulse rate, or a fever.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein the profile of the passenger comprises previously generated biometric data, and further comprising: comparing the generated biometric data with the previously generated biometric data; and determining a health condition of the passenger based on the comparison.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the health condition comprises one or more of weight loss or weight gain.
14. The method of claim 7, further comprising: determining a problem with one or more items of clothing associated with the passenger based on the scan.
15. The method of claim 7, wherein performing the scan of the passenger of the vehicle comprises performing the scan before the passenger enters the vehicle.
16. The method of claim 7, further comprising: determining a plurality of clothing items worn by the passenger based on the scan; receiving weather data; and based at least in part on the determined plurality of clothing items and the weather data, recommending at least one additional clothing item to the passenger, wherein the at least one additional clothing item is not part of the determined plurality of clothing items.
17. The method of claim 7, further comprising: determining a plurality of clothing items worn by the passenger based on the scan; receiving calendar data associated with the passenger; and based at least in part on the determined plurality of clothing items and the calendar data, recommending at least one additional clothing item to the passenger, wherein the at least one additional clothing item is not part of the determined plurality of clothing items.
18. The method of claim 7, wherein the vehicle comprises an autonomous vehicle.
19. The method of claim 7, further comprising: authenticating the passenger based on the generated biometric data; and allowing the passenger entry into the vehicle based on the authentication.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium for performing a scan for a passenger of a vehicle and including instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: perform a scan of a passenger of a vehicle; based on the scan of the passenger of the vehicle, generate biometric data regarding the passenger of the vehicle; determine a profile of the passenger of the vehicle, the profile including previously generated biometric data; add the generated biometric data to the profile of the passenger of the vehicle; compare the generated biometric data with the previously generated biometric data; determine a health condition of the passenger based on the comparison; alert one or both of the passenger or a driver of the vehicle about the health condition; authenticate the passenger based on the generated biometric data; and allow the passenger entry into the vehicle based on the authentication.
</claims>
</document>
