<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/27,G06N20/00,G16H10/60,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PATIENTORY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MCFARLANE, CHRISSA TANELIA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74065256
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD OF UTILIZING A USER'S HEALTH DATA STORED OVER A HEALTH CARE NETWORK, FOR DISEASE PREVENTION
</title>

<abstract>
A system and a method for utilizing a user's health data stored over a health care network, for disease prevention are described. The method comprises providing a user device for allowing the user to manage access of the user's health data to a third party. The user data is correlating, using a machine learning algorithm module, with similar data of other users for suggesting a next best action to be performed by the third party, for preventing occurrence of a disease to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of utilizing a user's health data stored over a health care network, for disease prevention, comprising: allowing a user to manage access of the user's health data to a third party with a user device; and correlating, using a machine learning algorithm module, the user data with a similar data of other users for suggesting a next best action to be performed by the third party, for preventing occurrence of a disease to the user.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the similar data of other users is identified based on age, medical conditions, complications after a medical procedure, or treatment.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the third party comprises at least one of a doctor, a surgeon, and a physician.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising allowing the third party to look up a first patient data in the machine learning database and to filter the machine learning database for a first patient data and a type of surgery.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising extracting a most re-occurring data point when a correlation level of the user data with a similar data is greater than a predefined threshold.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising selecting a new predetermined parameter in the user data for correlating with the similar data when a correlation level of the user data with a similar data is less than a predefined threshold.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein allowing a user to manage access of the user's health data to a third party comprises verifying that the user and the third party have access to a blockchain database storing the user's health data.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising accessing a digital wallet for the user to update a balance based on a recommendation of the next best action to be performed by the third party.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein correlating the user data with a similar data of other users comprises requesting the similar data from a clinical network support database that runs on a blockchain network.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein suggesting the next best action to be performed by the third party comprises providing a medication schedule to a patient after a surgery based on a likely outcome for other users undergoing a similar surgery.
11. A system for utilizing a user's health data stored over a healthcare network, for disease prevention, comprising: one or more processors; a memory coupled to the one or more processors and storing instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: allow a user to manage access of the user's health data to a third party with a user device; correlate, using a machine learning algorithm module, the user data with a similar data of other users for suggesting a next best action to be performed by the third party, for preventing occurrence of a disease to the user; and allow the third party to look up a first patient data in the machine learning database and to filter the machine learning database for a first patient data and a type of surgery.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors further execute instructions to extract a most re-occurring data point when a correlation level of the user data with a similar data is greater than a predefined threshold.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors further execute instructions to select a new predetermined parameter in the user data for correlating with the similar data when a correlation level of the user data with a similar data is less than a predefined threshold.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein to allow a user to manage access of the user's health data to a third party the one or more processors execute instructions to verify that the user and the third party have access to a blockchain database storing the user's health data.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors further execute instructions to access a digital wallet for the user to update a balance based on a recommendation of the next best action to be performed by the third party.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein to correlate the user data with a similar data of other users the one or more processors further execute instructions to request the similar data from a clinical network support database that runs on a blockchain network.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein to suggest the next best action to be performed by the third party the one or more processors further execute instructions to provide a medication schedule to a patient after a surgery based on a likely outcome for other users undergoing a similar surgery.
18. A non-transitory, computer readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause a computer to perform a method for utilizing a user's health data stored over a healthcare network, for disease prevention, the method comprising: allowing a user to manage access of the user's health data to a third party with a user device; correlating and matching, using a machine learning algorithm module, the user data with a similar data of other users for recommending a next best action to be performed by the third party, for preventing occurrence of a disease to the user, said recommendation being ranked based on the matched user data with the matched similar data of others; allowing the third party to look up a first patient data in the machine learning database and to filter the machine learning database for a first patient data and a type of surgery; and extracting a most re-occurring data point when a correlation level of the user data with a similar data is greater than a predefined threshold.
19. The non-transitory, computer readable medium of claim 18, further comprising selecting a new predetermined parameter in the user data for correlating with the similar data when a correlation level of the user data with a similar data is less than the predefined threshold.
20. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein allowing a user to manage access of the user's health data to a third party comprises verifying that the user and the third party have access to a blockchain database storing the user's health data.
</claims>
</document>
