<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/45,G06F16/483,G06K9/00,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SalesTing, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Ploetz, Thomas
Chhajwani, Nitesh
Saggi, Piyush
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73457121
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTENT SUMMARIZATION LEVERAGING SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES FOR KEY MOMENT IDENTIFICATION AND EXTRACTION
</title>

<abstract>
A system or process may generate a summarization of multimedia content by determining one or more salient moments therefrom. Multimedia content may be received and a plurality of frames and audio, visual, and metadata elements associated therewith are extracted from the multimedia content. A plurality of importance sub-scores may be generated for each frame of the multimedia content, each of the plurality of sub-scores being associated with a particular analytical modality. For each frame, the plurality of importance sub-scores associated therewith may be aggregated into an importance score. The frames may be ranked by importance and a plurality of top-ranked frames are identified and determined to satisfy an importance threshold. The plurality of top-ranked frames are sequentially arranged and merged into a plurality of moment candidates that are ranked for importance. A subset of top-ranked moment candidates are merged into a final summarization of the multimedia content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for summarizing multimedia content, comprising: receiving multimedia content, wherein the multimedia content comprises one or more frames and each of the one or more frames comprises one or more audio elements, one or more visual elements, and metadata; extracting of the one or more audio elements, the one or more visual elements, and the metadata from each of the one or more frames of the multimedia content; retrieving a transcript of the multimedia content based on the one or more audio elements and the one or more visual elements; determining a plurality of keywords from the transcript; mapping the plurality of keywords across each frame of the multimedia content; computing, for each frame, a plurality of sub-scores based on the keyword mapping, the one or more audio elements, of the one or more visual elements, and metadata, wherein the plurality of sub-scores comprises a chapter score and a topic score; generating an importance score for each frame of the multimedia content, wherein generating the importance score comprises weighting each of the plurality of sub-scores according to predetermined weight values and aggregating the weighted sub-scores; generating a ranking of the frames based on the importance scores; determining one or more top-ranked frames from the ranking that satisfy an importance threshold; merging the one or more top-ranked frames into one or more moments based on a sequential similarity analysis of the determined one or more top-ranked frames, wherein the merging comprises aggregating one or more of the one or more audio elements, the one or more visual elements, and the metadata of each of the one or more top-ranked frames; and aggregating the one or more moments into a final summarization of the multimedia content.
2. The method for summarizing multimedia content of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sub-scores further comprises a spoken text change score and/or a layout score.
3. The method for summarizing multimedia content of claim 2, wherein the plurality of sub-scores further comprises a speaker score and/or a visual text change score.
4. The method for summarizing multimedia content of claim 1, wherein the predetermined weight values are machine learned and cross-validation optimized weight values.
5. The method for summarizing multimedia content of claim 1, wherein: the multimedia content is received from a user; and the method further comprises transmitting the final summarization to the user.
6. The method for summarizing multimedia content of claim 1, wherein the transcript is retrieved from an external service.
7. The method for summarizing multimedia content of claim 1, wherein the plurality of keywords are determined using a frequency-based keyword extraction method.
8. The method for summarizing multimedia content of claim 4, wherein the sequential similarity analysis comprises computing one or more Word Mover's Distance values from the keyword mapping.
9. A system for summarizing multimedia content, comprising: at least one server configured for receiving multimedia content, wherein the multimedia content comprises one or more frames and each of the one or more frames comprises one or more audio elements, visual elements, and metadata; and at least one processor configured for: extracting of the one or more audio elements, the one or more visual elements, and the metadata from each of the one or more frames of the multimedia content; retrieving a transcript of the multimedia content based on the one or more audio elements and the one or more visual elements; determining a plurality of keywords from the transcript; mapping the plurality of keywords across each frame of the multimedia content; computing, for each frame, a plurality of sub-scores based on the keyword mapping, the one or more audio elements, the one or more visual elements, and the metadata, wherein the plurality of sub-scores comprises a chapter score and a topic score; generating an importance score for each frame of the multimedia content, wherein generating the importance score comprises weighting each of the plurality of sub-scores according to predetermined weight values and aggregating the weighted sub-scores; generating a ranking of the frames based on the importance scores; determining one or more top-ranked frames from the ranking that satisfy an importance threshold; merging the one or more top-ranked frames into one or more moments based on a sequential similarity analysis of the determined one or more top-ranked frames, wherein the merging comprises aggregating one or more of the one or more of the audio elements, the one or more visual elements, and the metadata of each of the one or more top-ranked frames; and aggregating the one or more moments into a final summarization of the multimedia content.
10. The system for summarizing multimedia content of claim 9, wherein the plurality of sub-scores further comprises a spoken text change score and a layout score.
11. The system for summarizing multimedia content of claim 10, wherein the plurality of sub-scores further comprises a speaker score and a visual text change score.
12. The system for summarizing multimedia content of claim 9, wherein the predetermined weight values are machine learned and cross-validation optimized weight values.
13. The system for summarizing multimedia content of claim 9, wherein: the multimedia content is received from a user; and the method further comprises transmitting the final summarization to the user.
14. The system for summarizing multimedia content of claim 9, wherein the transcript is retrieved from an external service.
15. The system for summarizing multimedia content of claim 9, wherein the plurality of keywords are determined using a frequency-based keyword extraction method.
16. The system for summarizing multimedia content of claim 15, wherein the sequential similarity analysis comprises computing one or more Word Mover's Distance values from the keyword mapping.
17. A process for training a machine learning model for summarizing multimedia content, comprising: generating at least one machine learning model, wherein the generating comprises initializing a plurality of weight values, each weight value associated with one of a plurality of analysis modalities; retrieving a training dataset comprising multimedia content, a first final summarization of the multimedia content, and a plurality of sub-scores for each frame of the multimedia content; training the at least one machine learning model to output a final summarization of the multimedia content, wherein the training comprises: executing the at least one machine learning model to generate an importance score for each frame of the multimedia content, wherein generating the importance score comprises aggregating, for each frame of the multimedia content, the plurality of sub-scores according to the plurality of weight values; generating a second final summarization of the multimedia content based on comparing the generated importance scores to an importance threshold and merging frames associated with threshold-satisfying importance scores into the second final summarization; computing an error metric by comparing the second final summarization to the first final summarization; determining that the error metric does not satisfy an error threshold; and adjusting one or more of the plurality of weight values towards reducing the error metric.
18. The process for training a machine learning model for summarizing multimedia content of claim 17, wherein the plurality of sub-scores comprises a chapter score and a topic score.
19. The process for training a machine learning model for summarizing multimedia content of claim 18, wherein the plurality of sub-scores further comprises a spoken text change score and a layout change score.
20. The process for training a machine learning model for summarizing multimedia content of claim 19, wherein the plurality of sub-scores further comprises a speaker score and a visual text change score.
</claims>
</document>
