<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/32,G06T1/20,G06T7/00,G16H30/40,G16H40/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
YAMAGUCHI KENTA
TSURU, DAISUKE
SUGIE, YUKI
HIRAYAMA, TOMOYUKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65026907
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDICAL IMAGE PROCESSING APPARATUS, MEDICAL IMAGE PROCESSING METHOD, AND COMPUTING DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A medical image processing apparatus for allocating at least two medical imaging processes to a plurality of assignable processing resources is provided. The plurality of assignable processing resources is allocated by the medical image processing apparatus based on resource information of the plurality of assignable processing resources. The medical image processing apparatus includes circuitry configured to acquire medical image processing content, from medical equipment, to be processed according to the at least two medical imaging processes prior to display on a display device connected to a surgical operating room network. The circuitry is configured to acquire the resource information of the plurality of assignable processing resources, and allocate each of the at least two medical imaging processes to a different one of the plurality of assignable processing resources based on the resource information of the plurality processing resources and the medical image processing content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A medical image processing apparatus for allocating at least two medical imaging processes to a plurality of assignable processing resources, the plurality of assignable processing resources being allocated by the medical image processing apparatus, the medical image processing apparatus comprising: circuitry configured to acquire medical image processing content, from medical equipment, to be processed according to the at least two medical imaging processes prior to display on a display device connected to a surgical operating room network, acquire a resource information of the plurality of assignable processing resources, and allocate each of the at least two medical imaging processes to a different one of the plurality of assignable processing resources based on the resource information of the plurality processing resources and the medical image processing content.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: a first processor of the plurality of assignable processing resources being a first type of arithmetic processor that is a different type than a second processor of the plurality of assignable processing resources, the first processor including a graphics processing unit (GPU) and the second processor including a field programmable gate array (FPGA).
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein: the circuitry is configured to allocate to the FPGA a first of the at least two medical imaging processes with a parallel computational demand that is higher than a demand from a second of the at least two medical imaging processes.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the circuitry is configured to allocate one of the at least two medical imaging processings to the GPU during standard operations and allocate the one of the at least two medical imaging processings to the FPGA during emergency operations.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the circuitry is configured to allocate a region of interest (ROI) of a captured image to the GPU to perform image-quality enhancement on the ROI, and allocate a non-ROI portion of the captured image to the FPGA to perform basic image processing.
6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the circuitry is further configured to display a visual indication on the captured image of a boundary between the ROI and the non-ROI portion of the captured image.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the circuitry is configured to change an appearance of the visual indication to an indication of at least one of an actuation of a diagnosis support function that supports identification of a lesion by machine learning, and an expense incurred by employing an external processing resource.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the change of appearance is displayed as at least a change of one of color, line thickness, line type, blink duration, transmittance, or brightness.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the resource information includes at least one of arithmetic performance, consumed power, response speed, availability of occupancy, cumulative operating time, hardware version, or usage fee.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the circuitry is configured to change the allocation of the at least two medical imaging processes between the plurality of assignable processing resources based on the medical imaging processing content that includes a high temporal frequency region and a low temporal frequency region, the low temporal frequency region has a lower graphics processing demand than the high temporal frequency region.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least two medical imaging processes include surgical assistance processing that includes at least one of highlighting a lesion site on an image, and displaying, as a superposition on the image, a cut part of the lesion site.
12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a wearable computer that is configured to receive, detect, and process, as an input instruction, a user gesture, the wearable computer being at least one of a glasses-type wearable computer or a head mounted display.
13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the medical image processing content is acquired from a camera mounted on a multi-joint, multi-link surgical assistance support arm device that is driven by a plurality of actuators.
14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the circuitry comprises a first camera controller and a second camera controller, wherein the first camera controller includes at least one of the plurality of assignable processing resources, and the second camera controller includes at least another of the plurality of assignable processing resources, the first camera controller being configured to allocate a first of the at least two medical imaging processes to the at least one of the plurality of assignable processing resources included in the first camera controller, and allocate a second of the at least two medical imaging processes to the at least another of the plurality of assignable processing resources that is included in the second camera controller.
15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the circuitry comprises a controller, a first camera controller and a second camera controller, wherein the first camera controller includes at least one of the plurality of assignable processing resources, and the second camera controller includes at least another of the plurality of assignable processing resources, the controller includes circuitry configured to allocate a first of the at least two medical imaging processes to the at least one of the plurality of assignable processing resources included in the first camera controller, and allocate a second of the at least two medical imaging processes to the at least another of the plurality of the assignable processing resources that is included in the second camera controller.
16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the circuitry comprises a camera controller that includes at least one of the plurality of assignable processing resources, the circuitry being configured to allocate a first of the at least two medical imaging processes to the at least one of the plurality of assignable processing resources included in the camera controller, and allocate a second of the at least two medical imaging processes to the at least another of the plurality of assignable processing resources that is hosted external to the apparatus, the at least another of the plurality of assignable processing resources is a cloud computing resource.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the circuitry is further configured to display signal processing content confirmation information on a display, wherein indications of the at least two medical imaging processes are displayed in association with a first of the plurality of the assignable resources and a second of the plurality assignable resources so as to provide a visual indication of which of the at least two medical imaging processes are assigned to which of the plurality of the assignable resources.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the circuitry is configured to display user-selectable control features that include at least one of a frame size and/or shape of a region of interest (ROI), a resource allocation indication, a usage fee, an occupancy allocation, and an operation time of using a fee-for-use cloud processing resource.
19. A medical image processing method, executed in a medical image processing apparatus, for allocating at least two medical imaging processes to a plurality of assignable processing resources, the plurality of assignable processing resources being allocated by the medical image processing apparatus, the medical image processing method comprising: acquiring with the circuitry medical image processing content, from medical equipment, to be processed according to the at least two medical imaging processes prior to display on a display device connected to a surgical operating room network; and acquiring a resource information of the plurality of assignable processing resources; and allocating with the circuitry each of the at least two medical imaging processes to a different one of the plurality of assignable processing resources based on the resource information of the plurality of assignable processing resources and the medical image processing content.
20. A computing device comprising: a display; and circuitry configured to present on the display first icons representing medical image processes to be performed on medical image content, second icons representing at least one type of assignable processing resource, the second icons being displayed on the display in association with the first icons to indicate which of the assignable processing resources have been assigned to perform a particular one of the medical image processes, wherein allocation of the assignable processing resources are assignable from a menu of user-selectable resource information that lists the assignable processing resources that are available to be assigned to the medical image processes represented by the first icons.
</claims>
</document>
