<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60Q1/50,E01F9/20,G06K9/00,G06N3/02,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZAHNRADFABRIK FRIEDRICHSHAFEN
</assignee>

<inventors>
NOTHEIS, PHILIPP
DEBERNITZ, LESCHEK
SCHMIDT, DANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63637853
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMMUNICATION FLOW FROM ROAD USER TO A VEHICLE DRIVING AN AUTOMATED MANNER
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a training evaluation device for a vehicle having a first input interface for receiving a recording of a sign given by a road user, and a second input interface for receiving a driver control command corresponding to the sign, wherein the training evaluation device propagates an artificial neural network with the recording of the sign and the driver control command to obtain a vehicle control command in the propagation of the artificial neural network, and adjusts weighting factors such that the vehicle control command matches the driver control command, for the machine learning of a meaning of the sign. A method for training an artificial neural network, a working evaluation device for an automatically operated vehicle, a driver assistance system, and a method for recognizing a meaning of a sign and for indicating a vehicle reaction to a known meaning of this sign are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A training evaluation device for a vehicle comprising: a first input interface for obtaining a recording of a sign given by a road user; and a second input interface for obtaining a driver control command corresponding to the sign, wherein the training evaluation device is configured to feed an artificial neural network with the recording of the sign and the driver control command to obtain a vehicle control command in a propagation of the artificial neural network, and to adjust weighting factors such that the vehicle control command matches the driver control command, for a machine learning of a meaning of the sign.
2. The training evaluation device according to claim 1, wherein the first input interface is configured to receive a visual sign comprising a gesture, a hand movement, a facial expression, or an acoustic sign from the road user.
3. The training evaluation device according to claim 1, wherein the first input interface is configured to receive a recording of at least one of a size or a facial expression of the road user, and wherein the artificial neural network is configured to obtain an age of the road user based on the at least one of the size or the facial expression, in order to adjust the vehicle control command based on the age.
4. The training evaluation device according to claim 1 wherein the first input interface comprises an interface to at least one environment detection sensor comprising at least one of an image sensor of a camera, a radar sensor, a lidar sensor, or a sound sensor, and wherein the second input interface comprises an interface to a vehicle data transfer system.
5. The training evaluation device according to claim 1, wherein the artificial neural network is a multi-layer convolutional or recurrent, artificial neural network.
6. (canceled)
7. (canceled)
8. (canceled)
9. A working evaluation device for an automatically operated vehicle, comprising: an input interface configured to receive a recording of a sign given by a road user, wherein the working evaluation device is configured to propagate an artificial neural network that has been trained with a meaning of the sign with the recording of the sign to recognize the meaning of the sign, and to obtain a vehicle control command corresponding to the sign and a first output interface for outputting the vehicle control command to the road user to indicate to the road user a vehicle reaction to a known meaning of the sign.
10. The working evaluation device according to claim 9, wherein the working evaluation device is configured to indicate that the vehicle will continue or stop, based on a recorded stopping sign or a recorded continuation sign given by the road user.
11. The working evaluation device according to claim 9 wherein the working evaluation device has a second output interface configured to output the vehicle control command to a vehicle control device.
12. A driver assistance system comprising: the working evaluation device according to claim 9; at least one environment detection sensor for recording the sign given by the road user; and a signal transmitter configured to indicate the vehicle control command to the road user to acknowledge a meaning of the sign and to indicate a vehicle reaction to a known meaning of the sign to the road user.
13. (canceled)
14. The driver assistance system according to claim 12, wherein the signal transmitter is configured to generate at least one of an electric, optical, or acoustic signal, and wherein the signal transmitter is placed in at least one of a front region or a rear region of the vehicle.
15. The driver assistance system according to claim 12, further comprising an interface for outputting a signal from the signal transmitter to a portable device worn by the road user to make the road user aware of the indication of the vehicle control command based on the signal from the signal transmitter.
16. (canceled)
17. A method for recognizing a meaning of a sign given by a road user comprising: recording the sign with at least one environmental sensor of a vehicle; propagating an artificial neural network executed on a processor that has been trained with the meaning of the sign with the recording of the sign; obtaining a vehicle control command in the propagation of the artificial neural network; and outputting an indication of a vehicle reaction according to the vehicle control command to the road user.
18. (canceled)
19. A computer readable medium having stored thereon a computer program that, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to execute the method according to claim 17.
20. The method according to claim 17, further comprising outputting the indication of the vehicle reaction comprising an indication that the vehicle will continue or stop.
21. The method according to claim 17, further comprising outputting the vehicle control command to a vehicle control device to responsively control at least one of a longitudinal or a transverse aspect of the vehicle according to the vehicle control command.
22. The method according to claim 17, further comprising outputting the indication of the vehicle reaction to the road user by generating at least one of an electric, optical, or acoustic signal using a signal transmitter.
23. The method according to claim 22, wherein the signal transmitter comprises a light strip located at least one of a front region or a rear region of the vehicle.
24. The method according to claim 22, further comprising outputting the signal from the signal transmitter to a portable device worn by the road user to make the road user aware of the indication of the vehicle reaction based on the signal from the signal transmitter.
25. The driver assistance system according to claim 12, wherein the signal transmitter comprises a light strip.
</claims>
</document>
