<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/27,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BENDER, MICHAEL
KEEN, MARTIN G.
RAKSHIT, SARBAJIT K.
TRIM, CRAIG M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73550904
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA EXPOSURE FOR TRANSPARENCY IN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
</title>

<abstract>
A method, computer program product, and a system where a processor(s) obtains data from one or more sources, wherein a portion of the one or more sources comprise training data for a first artificial intelligence decision-making system. The processor(s) ingest data from each source into a corpus and ingest metadata corresponding to the data, into a volume accessible to a second artificial intelligence decision-making system. The processor(s) search public sources and obtain information describing quality and non-objective influence of the data from each source. The processor(s) provide as inputs to the second artificial intelligence decision-making system, the information and the metadata, to classify the quality and the non-objective influence of each source. The processor(s) obtains outputs comprising, for each source, a first rating classifying the quality of the source of the one or more sources. The processor(s) load the outputs into a blockchain, obtain rules, and designate, via the blockchain, based on the rules, the portion.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: obtaining, by one or more processors, data from one or more sources, wherein a portion of the one or more sources comprise training data for a first artificial intelligence decision-making system; ingesting, by the one or more processors, data from each source of the one or more sources into a corpus; ingesting, by the one or more processors, metadata corresponding to the data, into a volume accessible to a second artificial intelligence decision-making system; searching, by the one or more processors, one or more publicly available sources and obtaining, based on the searching, information describing quality and non-objective influence of the data from each source of the one or more sources; providing, by the one or more processors, as inputs to the second artificial intelligence decision-making system, the information and the metadata, to classify the quality and the non-objective influence of each source of the one or more sources; obtaining, by the one or more processors, outputs from the second artificial intelligence decision-making system comprising, for each source of the one or more sources, a first rating classifying the quality of the source of the one or more sources; loading, by the one or more processors, the outputs into a blockchain; obtaining, by the one or more processors, rules, wherein the rules define one or more values for the first rating; and designating, by the one or more processors, via the blockchain, based on the rules, the portion of the one or more sources, wherein the portion comprises sources of the one or more sources classified with the one or more values for the first rating.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: providing, by the one or more processors, as training data for the first artificial intelligence decision-making system, the portion.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the outputs further comprise a second rating classifying the non-objective influence of each source of the one or more sources, wherein the rules define one or more values for the second rating, and wherein the portion comprises sources of the one or more sources classified with the one or more values for the second rating.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein ingesting the metadata is concurrent with ingesting the data.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein designating the portion comprises generating a knowledge base comprising the portion, wherein the knowledge base comprises the training data.
6. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining, by the one or more processors, new rules, wherein the new rules define a second one or more values for the first rating, wherein the second one or more values for the first rating differ from the one or more values for the first rating; and re-designating, by the one or more processors, via the blockchain, based on the rules, the portion of the one or more sources, wherein the portion comprises sources of the one or more sources classified with the second one or more values for the first rating.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the information is selected from the group consisting of: social media feeds, news items, and government announcements.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein classifying the quality and the non-objective influence of each source of the one or more sources comprises performing natural language processing on the information.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein ingesting the data comprises logging the data in the blockchain.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: logging, by the one or more processors, identifiers for sources comprising the portion in the blockchain.
11. A computer program product comprising: a computer readable storage medium readable by one or more processors and storing instructions for execution by the one or more processors for performing a method comprising: obtaining, by the one or more processors, data from one or more sources, wherein a portion of the one or more sources comprise training data for a first artificial intelligence decision-making system; ingesting, by the one or more processors, data from each source of the one or more sources into a corpus; ingesting, by the one or more processors, metadata corresponding to the data, into a volume accessible to a second artificial intelligence decision-making system; searching, by the one or more processors, one or more publicly available sources and obtaining, based on the searching, information describing quality and non-objective influence of the data from each source of the one or more sources; providing, by the one or more processors, as inputs to the second artificial intelligence decision-making system, the information and the metadata, to classify the quality and the non-objective influence of each source of the one or more sources; obtaining, by the one or more processors, outputs from the second artificial intelligence decision-making system comprising, for each source of the one or more sources, a first rating classifying the quality of the source of the one or more sources; loading, by the one or more processors, the outputs into a blockchain; obtaining, by the one or more processors, rules, wherein the rules define one or more values for the first rating; and designating, by the one or more processors, via the blockchain, based on the rules, the portion of the one or more sources, wherein the portion comprises sources of the one or more sources classified with the one or more values for the first rating.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, the method further comprising: providing, by the one or more processors, as training data for the first artificial intelligence decision-making system, the portion.
13. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the outputs further comprise a second rating classifying the non-objective influence of each source of the one or more sources, wherein the rules define one or more values for the second rating, and wherein the portion comprises sources of the one or more sources classified with the one or more values for the second rating.
14. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein ingesting the metadata is concurrent with ingesting the data.
15. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein designating the portion comprises generating a knowledge base comprising the portion, wherein the knowledge base comprises the training data.
16. The computer program product of claim 11, further comprising: obtaining, by the one or more processors, new rules, wherein the new rules define a second one or more values for the first rating, wherein the second one or more values for the first rating differ from the one or more values for the first rating; and re-designating, by the one or more processors, via the blockchain, based on the rules, the portion of the one or more sources, wherein the portion comprises sources of the one or more sources classified with the second one or more values for the first rating.
17. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the information is selected from the group consisting of: social media feeds, news items, and government announcements.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein classifying the quality and the non-objective influence of each source of the one or more sources comprises performing natural language processing on the information.
19. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein ingesting the data comprises logging the data in the blockchain.
20. A system comprising: a memory; one or more processors in communication with the memory; program instructions executable by the one or more processors via the memory to perform a method, the method comprising: obtaining, by the one or more processors, data from one or more sources, wherein a portion of the one or more sources comprise training data for a first artificial intelligence decision-making system; ingesting, by the one or more processors, data from each source of the one or more sources into a corpus; ingesting, by the one or more processors, metadata corresponding to the data, into a volume accessible to a second artificial intelligence decision-making system; searching, by the one or more processors, one or more publicly available sources and obtaining, based on the searching, information describing quality and non-objective influence of the data from each source of the one or more sources; providing, by the one or more processors, as inputs to the second artificial intelligence decision-making system, the information and the metadata, to classify the quality and the non-objective influence of each source of the one or more sources; obtaining, by the one or more processors, outputs from the second artificial intelligence decision-making system comprising, for each source of the one or more sources, a first rating classifying the quality of the source of the one or more sources; loading, by the one or more processors, the outputs into a blockchain; obtaining, by the one or more processors, rules, wherein the rules define one or more values for the first rating; and designating, by the one or more processors, via the blockchain, based on the rules, the portion of the one or more sources, wherein the portion comprises sources of the one or more sources classified with the one or more values for the first rating.
</claims>
</document>
