<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N20/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ICERTIS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAUDHARI, DHRUV
DARDA, MONISH MANGALKUMAR
JAIN, AMITABH
SHAH, HARSHIL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71097429
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED TRAINING AND SELECTION OF MODELS FOR DOCUMENT ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments are directed to a machine learning engine that determines training documents and validation documents from a plurality of documents. The machine learning engine may determine attributes associated with the documents. In response to receiving a request to predict attribute values of a selected document the machine learning engine may train a plurality of ML models to predict the attribute values based on the training documents and the attributes and associate the trained ML models with an accuracy score. The machine learning engine may determine candidate ML models from the trained ML models based on the training accuracy scores. The machine learning engine may evaluate and rank the candidate ML models based on the request and the validation documents. The machine learning engine may generate confirmed ML models based on the ranked candidate ML models such that the confirmed ML models may answer the request.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for managing documents over a network using one or more processors that execute instructions to perform actions, comprising: instantiating a machine learning (ML) engine to perform actions, including: determining one or more of training documents and one or more validation documents that are randomly selected from a plurality of documents; employing two or more evaluators to determine one or more attributes associated with the plurality of documents, wherein the one or more attributes are associated with one or more localization features that are associated with the plurality of documents, and wherein the two or more evaluators include a semantic evaluator and a textual evaluator that employ the one or more localization features to validate one or more of categories of clauses or document types; and in response to a request to predict one or more attribute values of a selected document, performing further actions, including: training a plurality of ML models to predict the one or more attribute values based on the one or more training documents and the one or more attributes, wherein each trained ML model is associated with a training accuracy score; determining one or more candidate ML models from the plurality of trained ML models based on each associated training accuracy score exceeding a threshold value; evaluating the one or more candidate ML models based on the request and the one or more validation documents, wherein each of the one or more evaluated candidate ML models is ranked; and generating one or more confirmed ML models based on the one or more ranked candidate ML models, wherein the one or more confirmed ML models are employed to answer the request and predict the one or more attribute values of the selected document, wherein employing the one or more confirmed ML models improves both efficiency of employed computing resources and accuracy of the answer to the request.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the plurality of ML models were either fully trained or partially trained prior to receiving the request.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more candidate ML models, further comprises, in response to the request matching one or more previous requests, modifying the one or more candidate ML models to include one or more confirmed ML models that were previously used for answering the one or more matched requests.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more attributes, further comprises: determining one or more categorical attributes that have values that are names or labels; and determining one or more numerical attributes that have values that represent a numerical meaning.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more attributes, include one or more of value, number of cycle dates, geographic location, subject matter, duration, delivery date, entities, forum, or venue.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the ML engine performs further actions, including: providing one or more document types based on a selection of attributes or attribute values, wherein each document is associated with the one or more document types based on the one or more attributes included in the document; and associating one or more of the plurality of ML models with the one or more document types.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the ML engine performs further actions, including, executing the one or more confirmed ML models to identify the one or more attributes of the document that are outliers.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the ML engine performs further actions, including, executing the one or more confirmed ML models to identify one or more document clusters based on the one or more attributes, wherein the plurality of documents are associated with the one or more clusters based on values of the one or more attributes that are associated with each cluster of documents.
9. A system for managing documents comprising: a network computer, comprising: a transceiver that communicates over the network; a memory that stores at least instructions; and one or more processors that execute instructions that perform actions, including: instantiating a machine learning (ML) engine to perform actions, including: determining one or more of training documents and one or more validation documents that are randomly selected from a plurality of documents; employing two or more evaluators to determine one or more attributes associated with the plurality of documents, wherein the one or more attributes are associated with one or more localization features that are associated with the plurality of documents, and wherein the two or more evaluators include a semantic evaluator and a textual evaluator that employ the one or more localization features to validate one or more of categories of clauses or document types; and in response to a request to predict one or more attribute values of a selected document, performing further actions, including: training a plurality of ML models to predict the one or more attribute values based on the one or more training documents and the one or more attributes, wherein each trained ML model is associated with a training accuracy score; determining one or more candidate ML models from the plurality of trained ML models based on each associated training accuracy score exceeding a threshold value; evaluating the one or more candidate ML models based on the request and the one or more validation documents, wherein each of the one or more evaluated candidate ML models is ranked; and generating one or more confirmed ML models based on the one or more ranked candidate ML models, wherein the one or more confirmed ML models are employed to answer the request and predict the one or more attribute values of the selected document, wherein employing the one or more confirmed ML models improves both efficiency of employed computing resources and accuracy of the answer to the request; and a client computer, comprising: a transceiver that communicates over the network; a memory that stores at least instructions; and one or more processors that execute instructions that perform actions, including: providing one or more of the plurality of documents or the request.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein one or more of the plurality of ML models were either fully trained or partially trained prior to receiving the request.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein determining the one or more candidate ML models, further comprises, in response to the request matching one or more previous requests, modifying the one or more candidate ML models to include one or more confirmed ML models that were previously used for answering the one or more matched requests.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein determining the one or more attributes, further comprises: determining one or more categorical attributes that have values that are names or labels; and determining one or more numerical attributes that have values that represent a numerical meaning.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more attributes, include one or more of value, number of cycle dates, geographic location, subject matter, duration, delivery date, entities, forum, or venue.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the ML engine performs further actions, including: providing one or more document types based on a selection of attributes or attribute values, wherein each document is associated with the one or more document types based on the one or more attributes included in the document; and associating one or more of the plurality of ML models with the one or more document types.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the ML engine performs further actions, including, executing the one or more confirmed ML models to identify the one or more attributes of the document that are outliers.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the ML engine performs further actions, including, executing the one or more confirmed ML models to identify one or more document clusters based on the one or more attributes, wherein the plurality of documents are associated with the one or more clusters based on values of the one or more attributes that are associated with each cluster of documents.
17. A processor readable non-transitory storage media that includes instructions for managing documents over a network, wherein execution of the instructions by one or more processors on one or more network computers performs actions, comprising: instantiating a machine learning (ML) engine to perform actions, including: determining one or more of training documents and one or more validation documents that are randomly selected from a plurality of documents; employing two or more evaluators to determine one or more attributes associated with the plurality of documents, wherein the one or more attributes are associated with one or more localization features that are associated with the plurality of documents, and wherein the two or more evaluators include a semantic evaluator and a textual evaluator that employ the one or more localization features to validate one or more of categories of clauses or document types; and in response to a request to predict one or more attribute values of a selected document, performing further actions, including: training a plurality of ML models to predict the one or more attribute values based on the one or more training documents and the one or more attributes, wherein each trained ML model is associated with a training accuracy score; determining one or more candidate ML models from the plurality of trained ML models based on each associated training accuracy score exceeding a threshold value; evaluating the one or more candidate ML models based on the request and the one or more validation documents, wherein each of the one or more evaluated candidate ML models is ranked; and generating one or more confirmed ML models based on the one or more ranked candidate ML models, wherein the one or more confirmed ML models are employed to answer the request and predict the one or more attribute values of the selected document, wherein employing the one or more confirmed ML models improves both efficiency of employed computing resources and accuracy of the answer to the request.
18. The media of claim 17, wherein one or more of the plurality of ML models were either fully trained or partially trained prior to receiving the request.
19. The media of claim 17, wherein determining the one or more candidate ML models, further comprises, in response to the request matching one or more previous requests, modifying the one or more candidate ML models to include one or more confirmed ML models that were previously used for answering the one or more matched requests.
20. The media of claim 17, wherein determining the one or more attributes, further comprises: determining one or more categorical attributes that have values that are names or labels; and determining one or more numerical attributes that have values that represent a numerical meaning.
21. The media of claim 17, wherein the one or more attributes, include one or more of value, number of cycle dates, geographic location, subject matter, duration, delivery date, entities, forum, or venue.
22. The media of claim 17, wherein the ML engine performs further actions, including: providing one or more document types based on a selection of attributes or attribute values, wherein each document is associated with the one or more document types based on the one or more attributes included in the document; and associating one or more of the plurality of ML models with the one or more document types.
23. The media of claim 17, wherein the ML engine performs further actions, including, executing the one or more confirmed ML models to identify the one or more attributes of the document that are outliers.
24. A network computer for managing documents, comprising: a transceiver that communicates over the network; a memory that stores at least instructions; and one or more processors that execute instructions that perform actions, including: instantiating a machine learning (ML) engine to perform actions, including: determining one or more of training documents and one or more validation documents that are randomly selected from a plurality of documents; employing two or more evaluators to determine one or more attributes associated with the plurality of documents, wherein the one or more attributes are associated with one or more localization features that are associated with the plurality of documents, and wherein the two or more evaluators include a semantic evaluator and a textual evaluator that employ the one or more localization features to validate one or more of categories of clauses or document types; and in response to a request to predict one or more attribute values of a selected document, performing further actions, including: training a plurality of ML models to predict the one or more attribute values based on the one or more training documents and the one or more attributes, wherein each trained ML model is associated with a training accuracy score; determining one or more candidate ML models from the plurality of trained ML models based on each associated training accuracy score exceeding a threshold value; evaluating the one or more candidate ML models based on the request and the one or more validation documents, wherein each of the one or more evaluated candidate ML models is ranked; and generating one or more confirmed ML models based on the one or more ranked candidate ML models, wherein the one or more confirmed ML models are employed to answer the request and predict the one or more attribute values of the selected document, wherein employing the one or more confirmed ML models improves both efficiency of employed computing resources and accuracy of the answer to the request.
25. The network computer of claim 24, wherein one or more of the plurality of ML models were either fully trained or partially trained prior to receiving the request.
26. The network computer of claim 24, wherein determining the one or more candidate ML models, further comprises, in response to the request matching one or more previous requests, modifying the one or more candidate ML models to include one or more confirmed ML models that were previously used for answering the one or more matched requests.
27. The network computer of claim 24, wherein determining the one or more attributes, further comprises: determining one or more categorical attributes that have values that are names or labels; and determining one or more numerical attributes that have values that represent a numerical meaning.
28. The network computer of claim 24, wherein the one or more attributes, include one or more of value, number of cycle dates, geographic location, subject matter, duration, delivery date, entities, forum, or venue.
29. The network computer of claim 24, wherein the ML engine performs further actions, including: providing one or more document types based on a selection of attributes or attribute values, wherein each document is associated with the one or more document types based on the one or more attributes included in the document; and associating one or more of the plurality of ML models with the one or more document types.
30. The network computer of claim 24, wherein the ML engine performs further actions, including, executing the one or more confirmed ML models to identify one or more document clusters based on the one or more attributes, wherein the plurality of documents are associated with the one or more clusters based on values of the one or more attributes that are associated with each cluster of documents.
</claims>
</document>
