<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G16H40/67,G16H50/20,G16H50/70,G16H70/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Neuralink Corp.
</assignee>

<inventors>
MEROLLA, PAUL A.
SEO, DONGJIN
Koh, Thong-Wei
PINTO, Sonal
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102028
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REAL-TIME NEURAL SPIKE DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
A method is described for real-time detecting and classifying of a characteristic signal, such as a neural spike, and forwarding information for further processing if it meets certain criteria. A system (e.g., an on-chip system implanted in a subject's cranium with limited processing power) receives an electrical biological signal. The system filters the signal to generate a filtered signal and fits the filtered signal to a model. The system identifies a set of fit values based on the model, the set of fit values comprising a plurality of sample amplitude values and a respective plurality of time values. Based on the fit values, the system computes a set of characteristic values. The system compares the characteristic values to a corresponding set of threshold values. Based on the comparison, the system determines whether the received biological signal corresponds to a neural spike and, if a spike is detected, forwards on information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving a biological signal; filtering the received biological signal to generate a filtered signal; fitting the filtered signal to a model; identifying a set of fit values based on the model, the set of fit values comprising a plurality of sample amplitude values and a respective plurality of time values; based on the set of fit values, computing a set of characteristic values; comparing the set of characteristic values to a corresponding set of threshold values; and based on the comparison, determining whether the received biological signal corresponds to a neural spike.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: based on the comparison, classifying the neural spike as corresponding to a particular spike category, of a plurality of configured spike categories; and transmitting output comprising an indicator of the particular spike category and a timestamp.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein: the set of fit values comprises: a first sample amplitude value, a second sample amplitude value, a third sample amplitude value, a first time value associated with the first sample amplitude value, a second time value associated with the second sample amplitude value, and a third time value associated with the third sample amplitude value; and the set of characteristic values comprises: a difference between the second time value and the first time value, a difference between the third time value and the second time value, a ratio of the third sample amplitude value and an absolute value of the second sample amplitude value, and a ratio of the first sample amplitude value and the third sample amplitude value.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the biological signal is received at an input of a chip, the filtering is executed via a bandpass filter comprised in the chip, and the identifying, comparing, and determining are executed via a set of logic gates comprised in the chip.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the chip is implanted in a cranium of a subject.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: based on determining that the received biological signal corresponds to the neural spike, transmitting an indication of the biological signal wirelessly to a receiver external to the cranium of the subject.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: based on determining that the received biological signal corresponds to the neural spike, packetizing and transmitting a timestamp corresponding to the biological signal.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein computing the set of characteristic values comprises fixed-point arithmetic calculations.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein: a first characteristic value, of the set of characteristic values, is assigned a first fixed-point number representation; and a second characteristic value, of the set of characteristic values, is assigned a second fixed-point number representation, the number representations being different from each other.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the biological signal comprises receiving a neural signal via a plurality of electrodes.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the received biological signal corresponds to the neural spike is executed substantially in real-time.
12. A system comprising a chip including: a plurality of input channels configured to receive a biological signal; a bandpass filter configured to filter the received biological signal to generate a filtered signal; and a controller configured to receive program instructions to: fit the filtered signal to a model; identify a set of fit values based on the model, the set of fit values comprising a plurality of sample amplitude values and a respective plurality of time values; based on the set of fit values, compute a set of characteristic values; compare the set of characteristic values to a corresponding set of threshold values; and based on the comparison, determine whether the received biological signal corresponds to a neural spike.
13. The system of claim 12, further configured to: classify the neural spike as corresponding to a particular spike category, of a plurality of configured spike categories, based on the comparison, and transmit output comprising an indicator of the particular spike category and a timestamp.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein: the set of fit values comprises: a first sample amplitude value, a second sample amplitude value, a third sample amplitude value, a first time value associated with the first sample amplitude value, a second time value associated with the second sample amplitude value, and a third time value associated with the third sample amplitude value; and the set of characteristic values comprises: a difference between the second time value and the first time value, a difference between the third time value and the second time value, a ratio of the third sample amplitude value and an absolute value of the second sample amplitude value, and a ratio of the first sample amplitude value and the third sample amplitude value.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the chip is implanted in a cranium of a subject.
16. The system of claim 15, further configured to: based on determining that the received biological signal corresponds to the neural spike, transmit an indication of the biological signal wirelessly to a receiver external to the cranium of the subject.
17. The system of claim 12, further comprising: based on determining that the received biological signal corresponds to the neural spike, packetizing and transmitting a timestamp corresponding to the biological signal.
18. The system of claim 12, wherein computing the set of characteristic values comprises fixed-point arithmetic calculations.
19. The system of claim 12, wherein: a first characteristic value, of the set of characteristic values, is assigned a first fixed-point number representation; and a second characteristic value, of the set of characteristic values, is assigned a second fixed-point number representation, the number representations being different from each other.
20. A non-transitory computer readable media for a method of handling data, the method comprising: receiving a biological signal; filtering the received biological signal to generate a filtered signal; fitting the filtered signal to a model; identifying a set of fit values based on the model, the set of fit values comprising a plurality of sample amplitude values and a respective plurality of time values; based on the set of fit values, computing a set of characteristic values; comparing the set of characteristic values to a corresponding set of threshold values; and based on the comparison, determining whether the received biological signal corresponds to a neural spike.
</claims>
</document>
