<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/931,G01S7/02,G06N20/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
A-ELEKTRONIK
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOROSAK, MARKO
PARADZIK, MATEJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72235913
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR SUPPRESING NOISE AND INCREASING SPEED IN MINIATURIZED RADIO FREQUENCY SIGNAL DETECTORS
</title>

<abstract>
In addition to signal analyzer (801) design and implementation method for digital signal processing for purpose of detection of speed measurement radars is disclosed with advanced AI (808) supported system for classification of the detected signals. Classifier AI module is implemented with SVM (Supported Vector Machine) (913) pretrained and periodically retrained for signal classification in the operation of the detector, and with additional neural network (910) used for assisting in classification of to SVM (913) unknown signals that could be detected during the operation of the detector and to update dynamical signature database (911) used for periodical retraining of the SVM (913) classifier. Optional user interface is possible for manual classification of detected signals and to update dynamical database (911) with new signatures with high weight for retraining.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of operating a digital signal processor configured to suppress intermodulation noise in an in-vehicle radio frequency (RF) signal detector of a vehicle, the method being to distinguish between radar signals from speed measuring radars and vehicle in-built anti-collision and adaptive cruise control radars and comprising: analyzing a digital signal corresponding to an intermodulation noise-suppressed RF signal; classifying the analyzed signal using a Supported Vector Machine (SVM), the SVM being initially trained from a database of radar signals belonging to known speed measuring radars and known vehicle in-built anti-collision and adaptive cruise control radars; determining whether a first certainty score associated with said classifying using the SVM is above a first predetermined threshold, and when the first certainty score is above the first predetermined threshold, adding the classified signal to a dynamic database according to a first weight, the added classified signal being classified as a previously unknown speed measuring radar signal, and after said adding the classified signal to the dynamic database, dynamically retraining the SVM; when the first certainty score is not above the first predetermined threshold, classifying the analyzed signal using a deep learning training algorithm, and determining whether a second certainty score associated with said classifying using the deep learning training algorithm is above a second predetermined threshold; when the second certainty score is above the second predetermined threshold, adding the classified signal to the dynamic database according to a second weight less than the first weight, the added classified signal being classified as a previously unknown vehicle in-built anti-collision or adaptive cruise control radar signal; and outputting an alarm to indicate detection of a speed measuring radar signal when the first certainty score is above the first predetermined threshold.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein when the SVM is to be dynamically retrained, receiving a signal corresponding to an input from an occupant of the vehicle, via a user interface, overriding the classification of the SVM and preventing the SVM from being dynamically retrained.
3. The method according to claim 1, when the first certainty score is above the first predetermined threshold and the classified signal is to be added to the dynamic database, receiving a signal corresponding to an input from an occupant of the vehicle, via a user interface, overriding the classification of the SVM and preventing classified signal from being added to the dynamic database.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method is performed when the vehicle is moving.
5. A radar detector configured to be provided in a vehicle comprising: memory; and digital signal processing circuitry operatively coupled to the memory and configured to suppress intermodulation noise, classify a digital signal corresponding to an intermodulation noise-suppressed RF signal using a Supported Vector Machine (SVM), the SVM being initially trained from radar signals belonging to known speed measuring radars, the classified signal corresponding to a previously unknown speed measuring radar signal, adding the classified signal to a dynamic database, and dynamically retrain the SVM after the classified signal is added to the dynamic database, classify the digital signal using a heuristics-based training algorithm, the classified signal not corresponding to any previously unknown speed measuring radar signals, and add the classified signal to the dynamic database, and control output of an alert to indicate detection of a speed measuring radar signal responsive to the classified signal corresponding to the previously unknown speed measuring radar signal.
6. The radar detector according to claim 5, wherein the digital signal processing circuitry is configured to override the classification of the SVM responsive to an input from an occupant of the vehicle via a user interface.
7. The radar detector according to claim 5, wherein the heuristics-based training algorithm is a deep learning training algorithm.
8. The radar detector according to claim 5, wherein the digital signal processing circuitry is configured to add the classified signal classified using the SVM according to a first weight and to add the classified signal classified using the heuristics-based training algorithm according to a second weight less than the first weight.
9. The radar detector according to claim 5, wherein the classified signal classified using the heuristics-based training algorithm corresponds to a previously unknown vehicle in-built anti-collision or adaptive cruise control radar signal.
10. The radar detector according to claim 5, wherein the SVM is initially trained from radar signals belonging to known vehicle in-built anti-collision or adaptive cruise control radar signals.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing computer-readable instructions that, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to perform a method comprising: detecting a radar signal; determining whether the detected radar signal is from a speed measuring radar or a vehicle in-built anti-collision or adaptive cruise control radar; and outputting an alert to indicate that the detected radar signal is from the speed measuring radar, wherein said determining is based on at least the following previous operations: classifying a previous detected radar signal using a Supported Vector Machine (SVM), and adding the classified previous detected radar signal to a dynamic database when the classified previous detected radar signal corresponds to a previously unknown speed measuring radar signal, and classifying the previous detected radar signal using a heuristics-based training algorithm when the previous detected radar signal does not correspond to any previously unknown speed measuring radar signals, and adding the classified signal to the dynamic database when the classified previous detected radar signal corresponds to a previously unknown non-speed measuring radar signal.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium according to claim 11, wherein the method further comprises dynamically retraining the SVM when the classified previous detected radar signal is added to the dynamic database and corresponds to the previously unknown speed measuring radar signal.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium according to claim 11, wherein the method further comprises overriding the classification of the SVM responsive to an input from a user interface.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium according to claim 11, wherein the SVM is initially trained from radar signals belonging to known speed measuring radars and known vehicle in-built anti-collision or adaptive cruise control radar signals.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium according to claim 11, wherein the classified previous detected radar signal classified using the SVM is assigned a first weight and the classified previous detected radar signal classified using the heuristics-based training algorithm is assigned a second weight less than the first weight.
</claims>
</document>
