<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/02,G06Q40/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOBY, ADAM
LIU, MAO LIN
YAMASHITA, MARK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69058603
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CREDIT SCORING AND PRE-APPROVAL ENGINE INTEGRATION
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of systems and methods using integrated credit scoring and pre-approval tools are described. A credit score tool may obtain a user's credit score and associated credit information for display to the user. A credit pre-approval tool may assemble credit-related information for evaluation by a predictive model to determine whether a pre-approved offer of credit should be presented to the user along with the credit score.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A credit scoring and pre-approval system comprising: a server comprising a processor and a memory, wherein the memory contains a credit score tool and a credit pre-approval tool; and a database containing user information, prior pre-approval offer determinations made by the credit pre-approval tool, and application usage data, the database in data communication with the processor, wherein, upon receipt of a credit score request from a client device, the processor is configured to: execute the credit score tool to obtain a credit score associated with a user and associated credit score information, and execute the credit pre-approval tool to apply a predictive model to the received credit score, the associated credit score information, prior pre-approval offer determinations, and application usage data to determine whether to transmit a pre-approved offer of credit to the client device, the application usage data comprises data relating to the user's interaction with the credit score tool, including the device used by the user to access the credit score tool and the time spent by the user interacting with the credit score tool, wherein: the predictive model includes a target variable and a set of predictor variables, the set of predictor variables including at least the application usage data, and the predictive learning model is updated upon changes to the database through the use of at least one machine learning algorithm selected from the group of gradient boosting machine, logistic regression, and neural networks.
22. The credit scoring and pre-approval system of claim 21, wherein the system utilizes machine learning to build the predictive model.
23. The credit scoring and pre-approval system of claim 22, wherein the target variable is whether the user applied for the displayed pre-approved offer of credit, and wherein the set of predictor variables further includes the received credit score, the associated credit score information, and the prior pre-approval offer determinations.
24. The credit scoring and pre-approval system of claim 22, wherein the set of predictor variables includes user information from the database.
25. The credit scoring and pre-approval system of claim 21, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the credit pre-approval tool to transmit a pre-approved offer of credit to the client device.
26. The credit scoring and pre-approval system of claim 25, wherein the pre-approved offer of credit transmitted to the client device is configured for display by a mobile device application.
27. The credit scoring and pre-approval system of claim 25, wherein the pre-approved offer of credit transmitted to the client device is configured for display by a web browser.
28. The credit scoring and pre-approval system of claim 21, wherein the application usage data further includes the number of times the user has requested the credit score, how many times the user has viewed the credit score, and a record of decisions by the user in response to offers of credit.
29. The credit scoring pre-approval system of claim 21, wherein the application usage data is updated as the user interacts with the credit pre-approval tool.
30. The credit scoring pre-approval system of claim 21, wherein the credit pre-approval tool records whether the user applies for the displayed pre-approved offer of credit and updates the prior pre-approval offer determinations and application usage data.
31. The credit scoring pre-approval system of claim 21, wherein the credit score tool is in data communication with an external data source and receives the credit score and associated credit information from the external data source.
32. A method for credit scoring and pre-approval, comprising: establishing, by a processor, data communication with one or more databases containing a credit score, associated credit score information, one or more prior pre-approval determinations, and application usage data relating to one or more interactions with a credit score tool, wherein the application usage data includes an identification of a first client device used to access the credit score tool and the time spent by the first client device interacting with the credit score tool; applying, by the processor, a predictive model to the credit score, the associated credit score information, the prior pre-approval offer determinations, and the application usage data, the predictive model including a target variable and a plurality of predictor variables, wherein the target variable is whether an application was submitted for a pre-approved offer of credit and the plurality of predictor variables includes the credit score, the associated credit score information, the prior pre-approval offer determinations, and the application usage data; and determining, by the processor and based on the predictive model, whether to transmit a pre-approved offer of credit to at least one selected from the group of the first client device and a second client device; and updating, by the processor, the predictive model through the use of at least one machine learning algorithm selected from the group of gradient boosting machine, logistic regression, and neural networks upon a change to one or more of the credit score, the associated credit score information, the prior pre-approval offer determinations, and the application usage data.
33. The method for credit scoring and pre-approval of claim 32, wherein the predictive model is built using a gradient boosting algorithm.
34. The method for credit scoring and pre-approval of claim 32, wherein the application usage data further includes the number of times a user has requested the credit score, how many times the user has viewed the credit score, and a record of decisions by the user in response to offers of credit.
35. The method for credit scoring and pre-approval of claim 34, further comprising: providing a database of credit-related activity by the user for use in the set of predictor variables to develop the predictive model, wherein the credit-related activity includes incremental bankcard trade by the user and the number of open bankcard trades made by the user.
36. The method for credit scoring and pre-approval of claim 34, further comprising: removing at least one of the received credit score, the associated credit score information, prior pre-approval offer determinations, and application usage data from the set of predictor variables.
37. The method for credit scoring and pre-approval of claim 32, further comprising providing feedback for the predictive model by: recording whether a user applies for the displayed pre-approved offer of credit; and recording the user's interaction with the user interface and updating the application usage data.
38. A credit pre-approval device, comprising: a processor in data communication with a database containing information relating to a user, including a credit score, associated credit score information, prior pre-approval offer determinations made by a credit pre-approval tool, and application usage data, the application usage data comprising data relating to the user's interaction with a credit score tool, wherein the processor applies a predictive model to the information contained in the database, the predictive model including whether the user applied for the displayed pre-approved offer of credit as a target variable and a set of predictor variables, the set of predictor variables including at least the application usage data, wherein the application usage data includes an identification of the client device used to access the credit score tool and the time spent by the client device interacting with the credit score tool, and wherein the processor updates the predictive model upon changes to the database through the use of at least one machine learning algorithm selected from the group of gradient boosting machine, logistic regression, and neural networks.
39. The credit pre-approval device of claim 38, wherein the application usage data is updated based upon whether the user applies for the displayed pre-approved offer of credit.
40. The credit pre-approval device of claim 38, wherein the application usage data further includes the number of times the user has requested the credit score, how many times the user has viewed the credit score, and a record of decisions by the user in response to offers of credit.
</claims>
</document>
