<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C22/00,G01S13/58,G01S17/58,G05D1/00,G08G1/01,G08G1/017,G08G1/052,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DRIVENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
WENGREEN, ERIC JOHN
SCHWIE, WESLEY EDWARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72662285
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Vehicle detection systems
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicle monitoring system can include a detection system having a camera, radar, and lidar. The vehicle monitoring system can detect a vehicle, generate numerical position data indicative of a first serpentine path of the vehicle as the vehicle drives on a road, numerically analyze the first numerical position data, and in response, take actions to protect lives.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. (canceled)
2. A vehicle monitoring system comprising: a first detection system configured to be located remotely relative to a first vehicle and having at least one of a first camera, a first radar, and a first lidar, wherein the first detection system is configured to use at least one of the first camera, the first radar, and the first lidar to detect a first serpentine path of the first vehicle as the first vehicle travels along a first road on a first day; and a computer system having first program instructions configured to numerically analyze first data indicative of the first serpentine path from at least one of the first camera, the first radar, and the first lidar to generate a first aggregate veering characteristic, the computer system comprising a memory having a first veering history associated with the first vehicle.
3. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 2, wherein the first program instructions are configured to update the first veering history in response to generating the first aggregate veering characteristic such that the first veering history is based at least partially on the first aggregate veering characteristic.
4. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 3, wherein the first program instructions are configured to determine a first veering threshold for the first vehicle at least partially based on the first veering history.
5. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 4, wherein the vehicle monitoring system comprises a communication system and second program instructions configured to cause the communication system to send a first communication in response to the vehicle monitoring system detecting, on a second day, a second serpentine path of the first vehicle that exceeds the first veering threshold.
6. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 5, wherein the first communication comprises at least one of a picture of the first vehicle and first identifying data indicative of the first vehicle.
7. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 6, wherein the communication system comprises a transmitter configured to send the first communication to a law enforcement entity.
8. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 5, wherein the first detection system comprises at least one of the first radar and the first lidar, at least one of the first radar and the first lidar are configured to detect a speed of the first vehicle on the second day, and the first program instructions are configured to determine the first veering threshold at least partially based on the first veering history and the speed.
9. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 5, wherein the first program instructions are configured to determine the first veering threshold at least partially based on the first veering history and at least one curvature characteristic of the first road.
10. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 5, wherein the first program instructions are configured to cause the first camera to take a picture of the first vehicle, the vehicle monitoring system comprises an image analysis system configured to determine first identifying data by analyzing the picture, and the first program instructions are configured to update the first veering history in response to determining that the first identifying data is indicative of the first vehicle.
11. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 5, wherein the first detection system is mounted adjacent to the first road.
12. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 3, wherein the first program instructions are configured to update the first veering history at least partially based on the first program instructions comparing the first serpentine path to at least a second serpentine path of a second vehicle as the second vehicle travels along the first road and a third serpentine path of a third vehicle as the third vehicle travels along the first road such that the first veering history is at least partially based on how the first vehicle veers on the first road relative to how the second vehicle and the third vehicle veer on the first road.
13. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 3, wherein the first program instructions are configured to determine a first veering threshold for the first vehicle at least partially based on the first veering history and at least partially based on comparing the first serpentine path to at least a second serpentine path of a second vehicle as the second vehicle travels along the first road and a third serpentine path of a third vehicle as the third vehicle travels along the first road, wherein the vehicle monitoring system comprises a communication system and second program instructions configured to cause the communication system to send a first communication in response to the vehicle monitoring system detecting, on a second day, a fourth serpentine path of the first vehicle that exceeds the first veering threshold.
14. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 3, wherein the first program instructions are configured to determine a first veering threshold for the first vehicle at least partially based on the first veering history, the vehicle monitoring system further comprising a second detection system configured to be located remotely relative to the first vehicle and relative to the first detection system, wherein the second detection system comprises at least one of a second camera, a second radar, and a second lidar, and the second detection system is configured to use at least one of the second camera, the second radar, and the second lidar to detect a second serpentine path of the first vehicle as the first vehicle travels along a second road, the vehicle monitoring system further comprising a communication system and second program instructions configured to cause the communication system to send a first communication in response to the second detection system detecting that, on the second road, the second serpentine path of the first vehicle exceeds the first veering threshold.
15. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 14, wherein the first communication comprises first identifying data indicative of the first vehicle, and the first communication is configured to notify a law enforcement entity.
16. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 2, wherein the first program instructions are configured to numerically analyze the first data indicative of the first serpentine path from at least one of the first camera, the first radar, and the first lidar to generate a baseline veering profile specific to the first vehicle, wherein the memory comprises the baseline veering profile.
17. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 16, wherein the first program instructions are configured to determine a first veering threshold for the first vehicle at least partially based on the baseline veering profile, wherein the vehicle monitoring system comprises a communication system and second program instructions configured to cause the communication system to send a first communication in response to the vehicle monitoring system detecting, on a second day, a second serpentine path of the first vehicle that exceeds the first veering threshold.
18. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 17, wherein the first detection system comprises the first camera and at least one of the first radar and the first lidar, and the first program instructions are configured to numerically analyze the first data indicative of the first serpentine path from at least one of the first radar and the first lidar to generate the baseline veering profile.
19. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 17, wherein the vehicle monitoring system comprises an image analysis system, the first detection system comprises a camera system having the first camera, and the first program instructions are configured to cause the camera system to take at least one picture of the first vehicle and are configured to cause the image analysis system to analyze the at least one picture to determine first identifying data and at least one identifying trait, wherein the first program instructions are configured to assign the baseline veering profile to the first vehicle in response to determining that the first identifying data is indicative of the first vehicle and the first program instructions are configured to assign the baseline veering profile to a driver of the first vehicle in response to determining that the at least one identifying trait is indicative of the driver, wherein the second program instructions are configured to cause the communication system to send the first communication in response to the vehicle monitoring system detecting, on the second day, the second serpentine path of the first vehicle and of the driver that exceeds the first veering threshold.
20. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 16, wherein the first program instructions are configured to determine a first veering threshold for the first vehicle at least partially based on the baseline veering profile, the vehicle monitoring system further comprising a second detection system configured to be located remotely relative to the first vehicle and relative to the first detection system, wherein the second detection system comprises at least one of a second camera, a second radar, and a second lidar, and the second detection system is configured to use at least one of the second camera, the second radar, and the second lidar to detect a second serpentine path of the first vehicle as the first vehicle travels along a second road, the vehicle monitoring system further comprising a communication system and second program instructions configured to cause the communication system to send a first communication in response to the second detection system detecting, on the second road, the second serpentine path of the first vehicle that exceeds the first veering threshold.
21. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 20, wherein the communication system comprises a transmitter configured to send the first communication to a law enforcement entity.
22. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 20, wherein the first detection system is mounted adjacent to the first road and the second detection system is mounted adjacent to the second road.
23. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 20, wherein the first program instructions are configured to determine the first veering threshold at least partially based on the baseline veering profile and at least one curvature characteristic of the second road.
24. (canceled)
25. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 2, wherein the computer system comprises second program instructions configured to numerically analyze the first data indicative of the first serpentine path from at least one of the first camera, the first radar, and the first lidar to generate a first veering threshold for the first vehicle, the vehicle monitoring system further comprising: a second detection system having at least one of a second camera, a second radar, and a second lidar, wherein the second detection system is located and configured to use at least one of the second camera, the second radar, and the second lidar to detect a second serpentine path of the first vehicle as the first vehicle travels along a second road; and a communication system and third program instructions configured to cause the communication system to send a first communication in response to the second detection system detecting, on the second road, the second serpentine path of the first vehicle that exceeds the first veering threshold.
26. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 2, wherein the first detection system comprises the first camera and the first radar, and the first detection system is configured to use at least the first camera and the first radar to detect the first serpentine path of the first vehicle as the first vehicle travels along the first road on the first day.
27. The vehicle monitoring system of claim 2, wherein the first detection system comprises the first camera and the first lidar, and the first detection system is configured to use at least the first camera and the first lidar to detect the first serpentine path of the first vehicle as the first vehicle travels along the first road on the first day.
</claims>
</document>
