<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-03-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G11C11/4096,H01L27/108,H01L27/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KRISHNAMURTHY, RAM
YOO, HUI JAE
LE, VAN H.
CHEN, GREGORY K.
SUMBUL, HUSEYIN EKIN
KNAG, PHIL
SHARMA, ABHISHEK
SATO NORIYUKI
ATANASOV, SARAH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72236795
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTE NEAR MEMORY WITH BACKEND MEMORY
</title>

<abstract>
Examples herein relate to a memory device comprising an eDRAM memory cell, the eDRAM memory cell can include a write circuit formed at least partially over a storage cell and a read circuit formed at least partially under the storage cell; a compute near memory device bonded to the memory device; a processor; and an interface from the memory device to the processor. In some examples, circuitry is included to provide an output of the memory device to emulate output read rate of an SRAM memory device comprises one or more of: a controller, a multiplexer, or a register. Bonding of a surface of the memory device can be made to a compute near memory device or other circuitry. In some examples, a layer with read circuitry can be bonded to a layer with storage cells. Any layers can be bonded together using techniques described herein.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: a gain cell embedded dynamic random access memory (eDRAM) device comprising: a write circuit; a storage device; and a read circuit, wherein the read circuit is positioned at least partially underneath the write circuit and in a different plane than that of the write circuit and the storage device is to couple the write circuit to the read circuit and wherein one or more of the write circuit or the read circuit are bonded to the storage device.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the write circuit comprises: a layer with a drain region; a channel layer; a gate oxide layer; a gate layer with a write word line interface; and a source region with write bit line interface.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the read circuit comprises: a channel region; a gate oxide layer; a gate layer; a source region with read bit line interface; and a drain region with read word line interface.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the write circuit comprises: a layer; a drain region; a conductive region coupling the drain region to the storage device through the layer; a channel layer; a gate oxide layer; a gate layer; and a source region with write bit line interface.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the read circuit comprises: a gate region; a gate oxide region formed at least partially over the gate region; a channel region formed at least partially over the gate oxide region; a source region formed over a portion of the channel region; and a drain region formed over a portion of the channel region.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the write circuit comprises: a channel region; a gate oxide region formed at least partially over the channel region; a gate region formed at least partially over the gate oxide region; a source region formed over a portion of the channel region; and a drain region formed over a portion of the channel region.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the write circuit comprises: a channel region; a source region formed under a portion of the channel region; a drain region formed under a portion of the channel region; a gate oxide region formed at least partially over the channel region; and a gate region formed at least partially over the gate oxide region.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the storage device comprises: at least one capacitor and a dielectric in contact with the at least one capacitor.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the storage device comprises a Capacitor Over Bitline (COB).
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the write circuit comprises one or more of: Poly-Si, Si, Ge, poly-Ge, GaN, MoS2, WSe2, MoSe2, WSe2, InS, HfS, ZnS, ZnSe, In2O3, ZnO, AZO, IGZO, or IZO.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the write circuit is bonded to the storage device using a bonding material.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the bonding material comprises one or more of: silicon dioxide (SiO2), silicon oxynitride (SiON), carbon doped-silicon oxynitride (SiOCN), silicon carbon nitride (SiCN), or silicon oxycarbide (SiOC).
13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the read circuit is bonded to the storage device using a bonding material.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the bonding material comprises one or more of: silicon dioxide (SiO2), silicon oxynitride (SiON), carbon doped-silicon oxynitride (SiOCN), silicon carbon nitride (SiCN), or silicon oxycarbide (SiOC).
15. The apparatus of claim 1, comprising compute near memory (CNM) circuitry, wherein the CNM circuitry is bonded to the read or write circuit.
16. The apparatus of claim 1, comprising memory emulation circuitry to provide an output from the gain cell eDRAM device at a different effective output rate.
17. A method of forming a gain cell memory device comprising: forming over a first substrate, a first region comprising a word line driver, read circuitry and active fins; forming a dielectric region over the first region; forming at least one storage region in the dielectric region; forming a layer of non-silicon-based write circuits over the dielectric region; bonding a second substrate onto the layer of non-silicon-based write circuits; and removing the first substrate to expose the active fins.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein: bonding a second substrate onto the layer of non-silicon-based write circuits comprises applying a bonding material to opposing surfaces of the second substrate and the layer of non-silicon-based write circuits, wherein the bonding material comprises one or more of: silicon dioxide (SiO2), silicon oxynitride (SiON), carbon doped-silicon oxynitride (SiOCN), silicon carbon nitride (SiCN), or silicon oxycarbide (SiOC).
19. The method of claim 18, wherein: bonding a second substrate onto the layer of non-silicon-based write circuits comprises: applying the bonding material using one or more of: silicon dioxide (SiO2), silicon oxynitride (SiON), carbon doped-silicon oxynitride (SiOCN), silicon carbon nitride (SiCN), or silicon oxycarbide (SiOC) and pressing bonding material of opposing surfaces against each other.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the forming a layer of write circuits over the dielectric region comprising bonding a layer of write circuits to a surface of the dielectric region.
21. The method of claim 17, comprising forming circuitry in the second substrate.
22. A system comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory coupled to the at least one processor, the at least one memory comprising: a gain cell embedded dynamic random access memory (eDRAM) device comprising: a write circuit; a storage device; and a read circuit, wherein the read circuit is positioned at least partially underneath the write circuit and in a different plane than that of the write circuit and the storage device is to couple the write circuit to the read circuit and wherein one or more of the write circuit or the read circuit are bonded to the storage device.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the storage device comprises: at least one capacitor and a dielectric in contact with the at least one capacitor.
24. The system of claim 22, wherein the write circuit comprises one or more of: Poly-Si, Si, Ge, poly-Ge, GaN, MoS2, WSe2, MoSe2, WSe2, InS, HfS, ZnS, ZnSe, In2O3, ZnO, AZO, IGZO, or IZO.
25. The system of claim 22, wherein the read circuit is bonded to the storage device using a bonding material and wherein the bonding material comprises one or more of: silicon dioxide (SiO2), silicon oxynitride (SiON), carbon doped-silicon oxynitride (SiOCN), silicon carbon nitride (SiCN), or silicon oxycarbide (SiOC).
</claims>
</document>
