<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01C1/00,B07C5/342,G05B13/02,G06K9/62,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SeedX Technologies Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
AYAL, SHARON
GEDALYAHO VAISBERGER, David
SHNIBERG, Mordekhay
CARMON, Elad
ASHKENAZY, Sarel
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65012049
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SORTING OF SEEDS
</title>

<abstract>
A system for sorting seeds based on their resistance to a stress is disclosed. Batches of purified seeds sorted using the system are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for sorting of seeds, comprising: at least one hardware processor for executing a code, the code comprising: code for inputting into at least one neural network, at least one image including a plurality of seeds which have statistically similar extractable at least one visual feature, the at least one image captured by at least one imaging sensor, wherein the at least one visual feature extracted from an image of one of the plurality of seeds are statistically similar to corresponding at least one visual feature extracted from another image of another seed of the plurality of seeds, code for computing by the at least one neural network, an indication of one classification category for which visual features are not explicitly defined, for each of the plurality of seeds selected from the group consisting of: stress resistant, and non-stress resistant, wherein the indication of at least one classification category is computed at least according to weights of the at least one neural network, wherein the at least one neural network classifies the plurality of seeds which have similar extractable at least one visual feature into one classification category selected from the group consisting of: stress resistant, and non-stress resistant, for which visual features are not explicitly defined, wherein the at least one neural network is trained according to a training dataset comprising a plurality of training images of a plurality of seeds which have statistically similar extractable at least one visual feature captured by the at least one imaging sensor, wherein each respective training image of the plurality of training images is associated with an indication of at least one classification category for which visual features are not explicitly defined of at least one seed depicted in the respective training image selected from the group consisting of: stress resistant, and non-stress resistant; and code for generating according to the indication of at least one classification category selected from the group consisting of: stress resistant, and non-stress resistant, instructions for execution by a sorting controller of an automated sorting device for automated sorting of seeds.
2. 2-3. (canceled)
4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the similar extractable at least one visual feature is selected from the group consisting of: a hand-crafted feature, at least one size dimension of the at least one seed, color of the at least one seed, shape of the at least one seed, and texture of the at least one seed.
5. The system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one classification category comprises a non-visual category that cannot be manually determined based on visual inspection of the at least one seed.
6. The system according to claim 1, wherein said stress is selected from the group consisting of: an abiotic stress and a biotic stress.
7. 7-10. (canceled)
11. The system according to claim 1, wherein the indication of the at least one classification category associated with respective plurality of training images of the training dataset is based on a DNA test destructive to the seed from which it was obtained.
12. The system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one neural network computes an embedding for the at least one image, and wherein the at least one classification category is determined according to an annotation of an identified at least one similar embedded image from the training dataset storing embeddings of training images, the at least one similar embedded image identified according to a requirement of a similarity distance between the embedding of the at least one image and embedding of the training images, and at least one member selected from the group consisting of: (i) wherein the embedding is computed by an internal layer of the trained at least one neural network selected as an embedding layer, (ii) wherein the embedding is stored as a vector of a predefined length, wherein the similarity distance is computed as a distance between a vector storing the embedding of the at least one image and a plurality of vectors each storing embedding of respective training images, and (iii) wherein the similarity distance is computed between the embedding of the at least one image and a cluster of embeddings of a plurality of training images each associated with a same at least one classification category.
13. 13-15. (canceled)
16. The system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one image comprises a plurality of images including a plurality of seeds, and further comprising code for clustering the plurality of images according to respective classification categories, wherein the instructions for execution by the sorting controller comprise instructions for sorting the seeds corresponding to the plurality of images according to respective classification categories, wherein the clusterization is performed according to a target ratio of classification categories and/or a target statistical distribution, wherein members of the clusters are arranged according to the target ratio, the target ratio of classification categories is computed according to a DNA analysis of a sample of the seeds.
17. 17-21. (canceled)
22. The system according to claim 16, wherein the clusters of different classification categories are created for at least one member selected from the group consisting of: (i) seeds are grown under same environmental conditions, (ii) seeds are grown at a same growing season, (iii) seeds are grown at a same geographical location, and (iv) seeds having identical physical parameters within a tolerance range.
23. 23-26. (canceled)
27. The system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one image comprises a plurality of images including a plurality of seeds of different classification categories, wherein the at least one neural network computes an embedding for each of the plurality of images, wherein the embedding of the plurality of images are clustered by clusterization code, and wherein the instructions for execution by the sorting controller comprise instructions for sorting the seeds according to corresponding clusters.
28. The system according to claim 27, wherein the clusters are computed according to at least one member selected from the group consisting of: (i) such that each embedded image member of each respective cluster is at least a threshold distance away from another cluster, and (ii) wherein the clusters are computed such that each embedded image member of each respective cluster is less than a threshold distance away from every other member of the same respective cluster.
29. (canceled)
30. The system according to claim 27, wherein an intra-cluster distance computed between embeddings of a same cluster is less than an inter-cluster distance computed between embeddings of different clusters.
31. The system according to claim 27, wherein seeds corresponding to embeddings located above an abnormality distance threshold from at least one of: another embedding, and a cluster, are denoted as abnormal and clustered into an abnormal cluster, wherein seeds denoted as abnormal are assigned a new classification category according to classification categories assigned to at least two image embeddings and/or at least two clusters in proximity to the embedding of the seed denoted as abnormal, wherein the new classification category is computed according to relative distances to the at least two image embeddings and/or at least two clusters in proximity to the embedding of the seed denoted as abnormal.
32. 32-33. (canceled)
34. The system according to claim 27, wherein at least one statistical value is computed for each cluster, and wherein a certain seed is denoted as abnormal when the embedding of the image of the certain seed is statistically different from all other clusters.
35. The system according to claim 27, wherein at least one statistical value is computed for each cluster, and wherein a certain seed is assigned a certain classification category of a certain cluster when the embedding of the image of the certain seed is statistically similar to at least one statistical value of the certain cluster.
36. (canceled)
37. The system according to claim 22, further comprising providing an image of a target seed, computing the embedding of the target seed by the at least one neural network, and at least one member selected from the group consisting of: (i) selecting a sub-set of the plurality of image embeddings according to image embedding located less than a target distance threshold away from the embedding of the target seed, wherein the instructions for execution by the sorting controller comprise instructions for selecting seeds corresponding to the sub-set of the plurality of image embeddings, and (ii) clustering the plurality of image embeddings and the embedding of the target seed, and selecting a cluster that includes the embedding of the target seed, wherein the instructions for execution by the sorting controller comprise instructions for selecting seeds corresponding to the selected cluster.
38. (canceled)
39. A system for training at least one neural network for sorting of seeds, comprising: at least one hardware processor executing a code, the code comprising: code for accessing a training dataset comprising a plurality of training images of a plurality of seeds which have statistically similar extractable at least one visual feature captured by at least one imaging sensor, wherein each respective training image of the plurality of training images is associated with an indication of at least one classification category for which visual features are not explicitly defined of at least one seed depicted in the respective training image selected from the group consisting of: stress resistant and stress non-resistant, wherein the at least one visual feature extracted from an image of one of the plurality of seeds are statistically similar to corresponding at least one visual feature extracted from another image of another seed of the plurality of seeds; and code for training at least one neural network according to the training dataset, the at least one neural network trained for computing an indication of one classification category for which visual features are not explicitly defined, selected from the group consisting of: stress resistant and stress non-resistant according to at least one target image comprising at least one seed captured by at least one imaging sensor, wherein the indication of at least one classification category of the at least one target image is computed at least according to weights of the at least one trained neural network, wherein the at least one neural network classifies the plurality of seeds which have similar extractable at least one visual feature into one classification category selected from the group consisting of: stress resistant and stress non-resistant, for which visual features are not explicitly defined.
40. A container comprising a plurality of seeds, and at least one member selected from the group consisting of: (i) wherein at least 90% of the seeds are stress-resistant seeds, (ii) wherein said plurality of seeds comprises more than 1000 seeds, and (iii) wherein said plurality of seeds weights more than 100 grams.
41. The container of claim 40, wherein at least one member is selected from the group consisting of: (i) at least 90% of the seeds are stress-resistant seeds, (ii) said plurality of seeds comprises more than 1000 seeds, and (iii) said plurality of seeds weights more than 100 grams.
42. 42-43. (canceled)
44. A method of growing a crop comprising seeding the seeds of the container of claim 40, thereby growing the crop.
45. 45-46. (canceled)
47. The system of claim 1, wherein a statistical classifier trained for extraction of the at least one visual feature classifies the plurality of seeds which have similar extractable at least one visual feature into a same classification category for which visual features are explicitly defined.
</claims>
</document>
