<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04R25/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OTICON
</assignee>

<inventors>
JENSEN, JESPER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62985977
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HEARING DEVICE COMPRISING A SPEECH PRESENCE PROBABILITY ESTIMATOR
</title>

<abstract>
A hearing device, e.g. a hearing aid, comprises a) a multitude of input units, each providing an electric input signal representing sound in the environment of the user in a time-frequency representation, wherein the sound is a mixture of speech and additive noise or other distortions, e.g. reverberation, b) a multitude of beamformer filtering units, each being configured to receive at least two, e.g. all, of said multitude of electric input signals, each of said multitude of beamformer filtering units being configured to provide a beamformed signal representative of the sound in a different one of a multitude of spatial segments, e.g. spatial cells, around the user, c) a multitude of speech probability estimators each configured to receive the beamformed signal for a particular spatial segment and to estimate a probability that said particular spatial segment contains speech at a given point in time and frequency, wherein at least one, e.g. all, of the multitude of speech probability estimators is/are implemented as a trained neural network, e.g. a deep neural network. The invention may e.g. be used in hearing aids or communication devices, such as headsets, or telephones, or speaker phones.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A hearing device configured to be worn by a user comprising: a multitude of input units, each providing an electric input signal representing sound in the environment of the user in a time-frequency representation, wherein the sound is a mixture of speech and additive noise or other distortions; a multitude of beamformer filtering units, each being configured to receive at least two of said multitude of electric input signals, each of said multitude of beamformer filtering units being configured to provide a beamformed signal representative of the sound in a different one of a multitude of spatial segments; a multitude of speech probability estimators each configured to receive the beamformed signal for a particular spatial segment and to estimate a probability that said particular spatial segment contains speech at a given point in time and frequency; and wherein at least one of the multitude of speech probability estimators is/are implemented as a trained neural network.
2. A hearing device according to claim 1 wherein at least one of the input units comprises: an input transducer, for providing a time-domain electric input signal representing sound in the environment; and an analysis filter bank for providing the electric input signal in said time frequency representation.
3. A hearing device according to claim 1 wherein each of said beamformer filtering units are configured to extract a signal originating from a particular one of said multitude of spatial segments while suppressing maximally signals originating from other locations.
4. A hearing device according to claim 1 comprising a resulting beamformer filtering unit configured to implement a resulting beamformer, which is a linear combination of beamformers directed at each spatial segment provided by said multitude of beamformer filtering units, where the coefficients of the linear combination are derived from the speech presence probabilities, and where resulting beamformer filtering unit is configured to provide a resulting beamformed signal.
5. A hearing device according to claim 1 wherein said multitude of spatial segments around the user comprises an own voice segment including a segment around the user's mouth to allow for estimating a speech presence probability of the user of the hearing device.
6. A hearing device according to claim 1 comprising or being constituted by a single hearing device comprising said multitude of input units.
7. A hearing device according to claim 1 being constituted by or comprising a hearing aid, a headset, an earphone, an ear protection device or a combination thereof.
8. A hearing device configured to be worn by a user comprising: a multitude of input units, each providing an electric input signal representing sound in the environment of the user in a time-frequency representation, wherein the sound is a mixture of speech and additive noise or other distortions; a multitude of beamformer filtering units, each being configured to receive at least two of said multitude of electric input signals, each of said multitude of beamformer filtering units being configured to provide a beamformed signal representative of the sound in a different one of a multitude of spatial segments; a multitude of speech probability estimators each configured to receive the beamformed signal for a particular spatial segment and to estimate a probability that said particular spatial segment contains speech at a given point in time and frequency; and wherein at least one of the multitude of speech probability estimators is/are implemented as a trained neural network, wherein the at least one of the multitude of speech probability estimators is/are implemented as a trained neural network according to the method of claim 10.
9. A hearing system comprising first and second hearing devices according to claim 1, each comprising antenna and transceiver circuitry configured to establish a communication link between them, and each comprising at least one of said multitude of input units.
10. A method of providing an estimate Î* of a speech presence probability in a sound signal comprising speech and additive noise or other distortions in a hearing device, the hearing device comprising a multitude of input units each providing an electric input signal representing said sound signal in a time-frequency representation (k, l), the method comprising: providing a subdivision of space around the user in a multitude of spatial segments (i,j); providing a speech presence indicator function, which for a given electric input signal indicates whether or not, or to which extent, speech is present in a given spatial segment (i,j), at a given frequency and time (k, l); and, for each spatial segment (i,j) providing a first database (Ψij) of training signals comprising a multitude of pairs of corresponding noisy beamformed signals X(k, l, θi, rj) representative of sound in the spatial segment in question and associated values of said speech presence indicator function I(k, l, θi, rj) in a time frequency representation, wherein said values of said speech presence indicator function represent ground truth values; and determining optimized parameters (Ψ*ij) of an algorithm for estimating said speech presence probability by optimizing it with at least some of said noisy beamformed signals X(k, l, θi, rj) and said associated values of said speech presence indicator function I(k, l, θi, rj) of said first database (Ψij) the algorithm providing corresponding estimated speech presence indicator values Î(k, l, θi, rj), said optimization of parameters (Ψ*ij) being conducted under a constraint of minimizing a cost function of said estimated speech presence indicator values.
11. A method according to claim 10 wherein said multitude of spatial segments comprises an own voice segment including a segment around the user's mouth to allow for estimating a speech presence probability of the user of the hearing device.
12. A method according to claim 10 wherein a multitude of clean electric input signals Sm(k,l), m=1, . . . , M, for each of said multitude of input units are generated (or recorded) by varying one or more of 1) the target speech source; 2) the target spatial position (θi, rj); 3) head size; 4) input unit.
13. A method according to claim 12 wherein said noisy beamformed signals X(k, l, θi, rj) are generated based on said clean electric input signals Sm(k,l), m=1, . . . , M, by varying one or more of a) the additive noise or other distortion type, b) the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) at which the target signal is typically observed in practice, in the application at hand, to thereby generate noisy electric input signals Xm(k,l), m=1, . . . , M, corresponding to said clean electric input signals; and by exposing said noisy electric input signals to respective beamformers providing said noisy beamformed signals X(k, l, θi, rj) representative of sound in the spatial segments in question.
14. A method according to claim 10 comprising the provision of a number of sets of semi-personalized, optimized parameters (Ψ*ij) of said algorithm for estimating a speech presence probability for a given spatial segment.
15. A method according to claim 14 comprising wherein said sets of semi-personalized, optimized parameters (Ψ*ij) of said algorithm are associated with a corresponding number of different head models having different head dimensions or form.
16. A method according to claim 15 comprising, providing that one of said sets of semi-personalized, optimized parameters (Ψ*ij) of said algorithm for said different head models is selected for use in the hearing device of the user based on test training data of sound signals played for the user while wearing the hearing device.
17. A method of operating a hearing device, the method comprising: providing a multitude of electric input signals representing sound in the environment of the user in a time-frequency representation, wherein the sound is a mixture of speech and additive noise or other distortions; providing a multitude of beamformed signals, each being representative of the sound in a different one of a multitude of spatial segments around the user, and each being based on at least two of said multitude of electric input signals; providing for each of said multitude of spatial segments an estimate of a probability Pij(k,l) that the spatial segment in question contains speech at a given point in time and frequency in dependence of the beamformed signals; and wherein at least one of the multitude of estimates of speech probability is/are provided by a trained neural network.
18. A method of operating a hearing device, the method comprising: providing a multitude of electric input signals representing sound in the environment of the user in a time-frequency representation, wherein the sound is a mixture of speech and additive noise or other distortions; providing a multitude of beamformed signals, each being representative of the sound in a different one of a multitude of spatial segments around the user, and each being based on at least two of said multitude of electric input signals; providing for each of said multitude of spatial segments an estimate of a probability Pij(k,l) that the spatial segment in question contains speech at a given point in time and frequency in dependence of the beamformed signals; and wherein at least one of the multitude of estimates of speech probability is/are provided by a trained neural network, wherein said at least one of the multitude of estimates of speech probability is provided by a neural network trained according to the method of claim 10.
19. A method according to claim 17 comprising providing a resulting beamformed signal, which is a linear combination of said multitude of beamformed signals directed at each spatial segment where coefficients wres(k,l) of the linear combination are derived from the speech presence probabilities Pij(k,l), and the beamformer weights wij(k,l)for providing said multitude of beamformed signals.
</claims>
</document>
