<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W10/02,B60W10/06,B60W10/10,B60W30/18,B60W50/14,F16D48/06,F16H45/02,F16H61/14,G07C5/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GM GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY OPERATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, CHUNHAO J.
DUAN, SHIMING
JIA, XIAODONG
RADECKI, PETER P.
ZHANG, ZHEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69168342
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TORQUE CONVERTER CLUTCH CONTROL SYSTEM HEALTH ESTIMATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method of, and a system for, controlling and predicting the health of a torque converter clutch control system is provided. The method includes determining, via a controller, rotational input and output speeds of the torque converter and a torque converter clutch slip. The method also includes determining, via the controller, whether a set of predetermined conditions are met for predicting the health of the torque converter clutch control system. The method includes gathering a plurality of initial features of the vehicle propulsion system, determining statistical information about the plurality of initial features, and selecting at least one feature of the vehicle propulsion system based on the statistical information. Furthermore, the method includes classifying the health of the torque converter clutch control system based on the selected feature or features. In some forms, principal component analysis is used to select the feature or features used for classification.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of controlling and predicting the health of a torque converter clutch control system of a torque converter of a vehicle propulsion system, the method comprising: determining, via a controller, rotational input and output speeds of the torque converter; determining, via the controller, a torque converter clutch slip based on the input and output speeds of the torque converter; determining, via the controller, whether a set of predetermined conditions are met for predicting the health of the torque converter clutch control system; gathering a plurality of initial features of the vehicle propulsion system; determining statistical information about the plurality of initial features; selecting at least one feature of the vehicle propulsion system based on the statistical information to define at least one selected feature; and classifying the health of the torque converter clutch control system based on the at least one selected feature.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the statistical information includes at least one of a maximum, a mean, a periodicity, a variance, a frequency, an amplitude, an autocorrelation, a power spectral density, a wavelet analysis, a Fourier analysis, a root mean square, and a mean squared error.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising executing, via the controller, a control action with respect to the torque converter clutch control system based on the classification of the health of the torque converter clutch control system.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein selecting the at least one feature of the vehicle propulsion system is performed using principal component analysis.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising classifying the health as needing service at an engine speed oscillation in the range of 0.2 to 3 Hertz.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the set of predetermined conditions include a plurality of the following: a transmission temperature being in an enablement range; the torque converter clutch slip being in a predetermined slip mode range; an engine speed being in a predetermined speed range; an accelerator pedal being in a predetermined throttle range; a brake pedal being in a predetermined braking range; a transmission being in a predetermined ratio range; an engine torque being in a predetermined torque range; and a torque converter clutch commanded pressure being in a predetermine pressure range.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the at least one selected feature is chosen based on at least one the following: an amount of torque converter clutch slip, an amount of error of torque converter slip with respect to a commanded slip, a mode of the torque converter clutch, an amount of engine torque, the rotational output speed of the torque converter, an amplitude of an oscillation of a torque converter output shaft, an amplitude of oscillation of a crankshaft in rotation, a rate of change in the amount of torque converter clutch slip, a rate of change of the error of the torque converter slip with respect to the commanded slip, a rate of change of the amount of engine torque, a rate of change of the rotational output speed of the torque converter, a frequency of the oscillation of the torque converter output shaft, and a frequency of the oscillation of the crankshaft in rotation.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: selecting the predetermined enable conditions using an optimization decision process; and machining learning a hyperplane boundary to classify the health of the torque converter clutch control system.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein executing the control action includes creating a diagnostic record of the torque converter clutch control system.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein executing the control action includes activating a service indicator configured to signal that service of the torque converter clutch control system is required.
11. The method of claim 7, further comprising determining an input torque to the torque converter, and wherein executing the control action includes at least one of the following: reducing the input torque, varying a hydraulic pressure of the torque converter clutch control system, changing a TCC control mode of the torque converter clutch control system, and varying a gear ratio of a transmission.
12. A torque converter clutch control system having a controller comprising a processor and a non-transitory computer-readable medium containing instructions that, when executed, perform the method comprising the steps of: determining rotational input and output speeds of a torque converter; determining a torque converter clutch slip based on the input and output speeds of the torque converter; determining whether a set of predetermined conditions are met for predicting the health of the torque converter clutch control system; gathering a plurality of initial features of the vehicle propulsion system; determining statistical information about the plurality of initial features; selecting at least one feature of the vehicle propulsion system based on the statistical information to define at least one selected feature; and classifying the health of the torque converter clutch control system based on the at least one selected feature.
13. The torque converter clutch control system of claim 12, wherein the statistical information includes at least one of a maximum, a mean, a periodicity, a variance, a frequency, an amplitude, an autocorrelation, a power spectral density, a wavelet analysis, a Fourier analysis, a root mean square, and a mean squared error.
14. The torque converter clutch control system of claim 13, further comprising the step of executing a control action with respect to the torque converter clutch control system based on the classification of the health of the torque converter clutch control system.
15. The torque converter clutch control system of claim 14, wherein the controller is configured to use principal component analysis to perform the step of selecting the at least one feature of the vehicle propulsion system.
16. The torque converter clutch control system of claim 15, wherein the controller is configured to classify the health as needing service at an engine speed oscillation in the range of 0.2 to 3 Hertz.
17. The torque converter clutch control system of claim 15, wherein the set of predetermined conditions include a plurality of the following: a transmission temperature being in an enablement range; the torque converter clutch slip being in a predetermined slip mode range; an engine speed being in a predetermined speed range; an accelerator pedal being in a predetermined throttle range; a brake pedal being in a predetermined braking range; a transmission being in a predetermined ratio range; an engine torque being in a predetermined torque range; and a torque converter clutch commanded pressure being in a predetermine pressure range.
18. The torque converter clutch control system of claim 17, wherein the at least one selected feature is chosen based on at least one of the following: an amount of torque converter clutch slip, an amount of error of torque converter slip with respect to a commanded slip, a mode of the torque converter clutch, an amount of engine torque, the rotational output speed of the torque converter, an amplitude of an oscillation of a torque converter output shaft, and an amplitude of oscillation of a crankshaft in rotation, a rate of change in the amount of torque converter clutch slip, a rate of change of the error of the torque converter slip with respect to the commanded slip, a rate of change in the amount of engine torque, a rate of change of the rotational output speed of the torque converter, a frequency of the oscillation of the torque converter output shaft, and a frequency of the oscillation of the crankshaft in rotation.
19. A motor vehicle propulsion system comprising: a power source configured to generate power-source torque; a transmission configured to transmit the power-source torque to a final drive assembly; a torque converter configured to operatively connect the power source to the transmission and having: a fluid coupling configured to operatively connect the power source to the transmission; and a lock-up clutch arranged operatively in parallel with the fluid coupling and selectively actuated to mechanically connect the power source to the transmission; and a controller configured to: determine rotational input and output speeds of the torque converter; determine a lock-up clutch slip based on the input and output speeds of the torque converter; determine whether a set of predetermined conditions are met for predicting the health of the lock-up clutch; gather a plurality of initial features of the motor vehicle propulsion system; determine statistical information about the plurality of initial features; select at least one feature of the motor vehicle propulsion system based on the statistical information to define at least one selected feature; and classify the health of the lock-up clutch based on the at least one selected feature.
20. The motor vehicle propulsion system of claim 19, wherein the statistical information includes at least one of a maximum, a mean, a periodicity, a variance, a frequency, an amplitude, an autocorrelation, a power spectral density, a wavelet analysis, a Fourier analysis, a root mean square, and a mean squared error, wherein the controller is configured to use principal component analysis to select the at least one feature of the vehicle propulsion system, the controller being further configured to execute a control action based on the classification of the health of the lock-up clutch, wherein the set of predetermined conditions include a plurality of the following: a transmission temperature being in an enablement range; the torque converter clutch slip being in a predetermined slip mode range; an engine speed being in a predetermined speed range; an accelerator pedal being in a predetermined throttle range; a brake pedal being in a predetermined braking range; a transmission being in a predetermined ratio range; an engine torque being in a predetermined torque range; and a torque converter clutch commanded pressure being in a predetermine pressure range, and wherein the at least one selected feature is chosen based on at least one of the following: an amount of torque converter clutch slip, an amount of error of torque converter slip with respect to a commanded slip, a mode of the torque converter clutch, an amount of engine torque, the rotational output speed of the torque converter, an amplitude of an oscillation of a torque converter output shaft, and an amplitude of oscillation of a crankshaft in rotation, a rate of change in the amount of torque converter clutch slip, a rate of change of the error of the torque converter slip with respect to the commanded slip, a rate of change in the amount of engine torque, a rate of change of the rotational output speed of the torque converter, a frequency of the oscillation of the torque converter output shaft, and a frequency of the oscillation of the crankshaft in rotation.
</claims>
</document>
