<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,G06F15/82,G06F8/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Hamlin, Derrick John
</assignee>

<inventors>
Hamlin, Derrick John
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62196599
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Digital Processing Connectivity
</title>

<abstract>
A connectivity has a first network (25) of signal-links interconnecting a large plurality of address-bearing, computing cells (20 and 22). Some of the links are selectable according to addresses hierarchically ordered along a recursive curve. Most of the address-designated links that form the network are switchably operable between cells such that a first selectable set of cells along one segment of the recursive curve form signal-routes to a second selectable set of cells, along a second segment. For receipt of instructions and for synchronisation, some segments have a switchable signal-path from one controlling cell of that segment. A second network (23) has signal-links interconnecting a plurality of processing cells (19 and 21) some of which control the loading of data into cells of the first network. The computing and processing cells have pairwise matching of addresses and are pairwise coterminous, which ensures that control of the connectivity by second network (23) is directed to localisably-selectable segments of first network (25).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data processing connectivity, comprising: a multiplicity of concurrently-operable computing cells each being operable to store, distribute and manipulate digital-codes and each having stored in memory an address uniquely prescribing its location in the connectivity; a first network of switchably-selectable, bi-directional, signalling-paths, each respectively linking a pair of said cells, into which network each cell has a multiplicity of interfacing circuits enabling the interchange of digital-codes with a like multiplicity of said cells through a like multiplicity of said paths, the said multiplicity of cells being hereinafter referred to as 'neighbours' of said each cell; at least one set of path-selecting codes of said plurality, prescribed according to a recursive algorithm and mapped bijectively into the said plurality of cells, each code, possibly excepting a terminal one, being adapted to directing its corresponding cell to select a said path to its succeeding neighbour-cell along a chain of code-selected paths for uni-directional signal-transmission, which chain passes once only through each of said cells, recursively delimiting hierarchically-nested segments along its length and describing a correspondingly-delimited connectivity clustered along each of its said nested segments; and each of several said connectivities has autonomously-operating communication and processing means operable to perform concurrent array-processing on an array of digital-codes from a corresponding user.
2. A connectivity as claimed in claim 1 in which each of several said sub-connectivities has a controlling digital processing cell, hereinafter referred to as a 'pivot' with a scope of control corresponding with the location and size of its prescribed sub-connectivity, each pivot having a bi-directional signal communication route to a user interface circuit and, in accordance with the form of said signalling-chain, the pivot and its corresponding segment of cells together have means to transfer digital-codes in sequential-order along said chain from the said user interface to the cells of the correspondingly-prescribed sub-connectivity.
3. A connectivity as claimed in claim 2 in which each pivot is a prescribed member-cell of said segment of cells with additional circuitry adapted for user interfacing and for controlling its corresponding sub-connectivity.
4. A connectivity as claimed in claim 2 in which each pivot and its corresponding sub-connectivity together have broadcast-means to distribute a signal concurrently and in common from the pivot to all cells along its correspondingly-prescribed segment.
5. A connectivity as claimed in claim 4 in which each cell of said sub-connectivity has means to transmit at least a synchronizing signal to its controlling pivot, each cell annunciating thereby completion of its own operation in response to said common signal.
6. A connectivity as claimed in claim 4 in which each pivot connects to a root-node switching-circuit of a tree of signal-directing, hierarchically-ordered signaling-paths and subtended node-circuits, each of the leaf-level subtended signaling-paths of the tree being connected for signal-transmission to a corresponding cell belonging to said each pivot's correspondingly-prescribed segment.
7. A connectivity as claimed in claim 6 in which said node circuits have means to combine and to transmit partially-collected said synchronizing-signals to said pivot by way of said root-node.
8. Connectivity as claimed in claim 2 in which: each pivot holds in store a parameter representing the scope of its corresponding segment; the pivots have, interconnecting between themselves, a network of circuits hierarchically-ordered according to the hierarchically-nested scopes of the pivots; and several pivots, in accordance with the hierarchically-nested arrangement of the said chain of segments and pivot-scopes, have means thereby to switchably-select and to programmatically-code subordinately-scoped pivots.
9. Connectivity as claimed in claim 8 in which a first pivot that controls a superior segment, with scope greater than and encompassing a subordinate segment with an associated second pivot, has discretionary means operable to inhibit access by the said second pivot to its own said subordinate segment, and inter alia to take control of the cells in the subordinate segment.
10. Connectivity as claimed in claim 8 in which the address of each pivot encodes said scope-representing parameter.
11. Connectivity as claimed in claim 1 in which time-sharing data-bus circuitry replaces several said signalling-paths of said first network, said circuitry being adapted to route in sequential order through a data-bus, a sequence of said digital-codes of said first network, the digital-codes being switchably-ordered between respective pairs of cells, and said data-bus circuitry being responsible, inter alia, for respective paths in the aforesaid monotonically sequenced signalling-chain.
12. Connectivity as claimed in claim 1 in which each cell has a switchable sequence of operating states including means to annul user digital-codes within its memory and to enter an unemployed operating state, called hereinafter a 'free-state' and, when not in a free-state, enabled at least to enter an operating state, called hereinafter a 'calling-state', adapted to acquire a signalling-route to, and to exchange digital-codes with, a further cell.
13. Connectivity as claimed in claim 12 in which a free-state signal is transmitted into the connectivity by a cell while the cell is in a free-state.
14. Connectivity as claimed in claim 13 in which said cell has means to revert to a free-state in response to a prescribed code, and means to cancel transmission of its free-state signal into the connectivity.
15. A connectivity as claimed in claim 1 in which said first network enables a signal-initiating cell to transfer a data-code to any other one of the said plurality of cells, called hereinafter a 'target-cell', by way of a sequence of address-selected ones of said cells and signalling-paths, each cell in the sequence along the route to the target-cell being switchably-ordered by a cell-selecting address-code transmitted together with the said data-code.
16. A connectivity, as claimed in claim 1, in which the locus of paths of said signalling-chain has the form of a curve called hereinbefore a 'space-filling curve'.
17. A connectivity, as claimed in claim 1, in which the locus of paths of said signalling-chain has the form of a H-curve recursive sequence conforming to a characteristic algorithm as before herein stated.
18. A connectivity, as claimed in claim 1, in which said cell addresses are cyclic-coded addresses.
19. A connectivity, as claimed in claim 18, in which said cyclic-code addresses are Gray-coded addresses.
20. A connectivity, as claimed in claim 1, in which the said first network is a k-ary, n-torus, and each cell is connected for data communication to each of its 2n neighbours.
21. A connectivity, as claimed in claim 20 where k is 2 and each cell is connected for data communication to each of its n neighbours.
22. A connectivity as claimed in claim 2 in which, under the direction of a controlling pivot in common, a first sub-connectivity is enabled by way of said signalling-paths of first network to move its array of said digital-codes in a direct isometry in translation, the digital-codes being thereby transferred step-wise in synchronism through sequences of said paths, each of said digital-codes respectively to be stored as a like array in a said second sub-connectivity of cells.
23. A connectivity as claimed in claim 2 in which, several cells of a first sub-connectivity are concurrently enabled to acquire data transmission routes to several cells of a second corresponding sub-connectivity at respective ones of address-designated positions congruent with the several cells of the first said sub-connectivity.
24. A connectivity, as claimed in claim 23, in which said first and second sub-connectivities are arranged and connected for concurrent data-transmission in an enantiomorphic relationship.
25. A connectivity, as claimed in claim 1, in which a system clock is operable on alternate half-cycles, first to activate half of said plurality of cells on one half-clock-cycle for communication with neighbours belonging to the remaining half of the said plurality of cells and then, on the other half-clock-cycle, to activate said remaining half of cells for communication.
26. A connectivity, as claimed in claim 25, in which said system-clock, on one half-clock-cycle, activates all odd-addressed cells for communication with neighbours with even addresses and then, on the other half-clock-cycle, activates said neighbours with even addresses for communication with neighbours with odd addresses.
27. Connectivity as claimed in claim 25 in which, in response to an instruction in common, each cell active on one half-clock-cycle in a sub-connectivity has means for selecting and signalling each of their said multiplicity of neighbours in a prescribed sequential order.
28. Connectivity as claimed in claim 2, in which comprises several said user interface circuits and a multiplexing network of switchably-selectable switching-nodes and signalling-paths, each multiplexer-node hereinafter referred to as a 'diverter', by way of which some of the several said user interface circuits are concurrently each enabled to select a signalling-route, for bi-directional signal-transmission, to a corresponding, user-designated one of said pivots.
29. Connectivity as claimed in claim 28 in which each user interface circuit has means operable to switchably-select each diverter in a sequence, each diverter being adapted to select a partial-route of the said signalling-route, the signalling-route being formed progressively thereby through at least one diverter and latched-open for signalling.
30. Connectivity as claimed in claim 29 in which user interface circuit has a multiplicity of operating states comprising at least a searching-state and when in a searching-state, the user interface circuit transmits a searching signal into the said multiplexing network, each said diverter being adapted to select a bidirectional partial-route in response both to the searching signal and to the presence of a free-state signal from a pivot in a free-state.
31. Connectivity as claimed in claim 30 in which diverter has means for selecting a partial-route, towards a pivot of prescribed scope in free-state, in accordance with both a searching-signal from the user interface circuit representing the user-designated scope, and a free-state signal from said pivot.
32. Connectivity as claimed in claim 31 in which said user interface circuit together with said multiplexing-network has redirection-means operable such that, in the event that said free-state pivot becomes otherwise acquired during the search, and switches out of its free-state, to redirect the search-signalling route to a free-state pivot of like scope.
33. Connectivity as claimed in claim 32 in which, in the event that no such free-state pivot is available, user interface has switch-means to hold said searching-state in abeyance.
34. Connectivity as claimed in claim 30 in which user interface circuit includes a calling-state and the address of a previously-acquired pivot and, when in a calling-state has means for transmitting a calling-signal into the multiplexing network, the calling-signal progressing through said partial-routes by setting direction-switches through a sequence of diverters according to the address of the user-designated pivot.
35. A connectivity as claimed in claim 1 in which a second network of bi-directional signalling-paths, switchably-selectable through further cell interface circuits, and signal-directing nodal switch-circuits that enable interconnection between pairs of said plurality of cells such that a first cell in a calling-state has means to communicate with a second cell by way of a sequence of selectable ones of said nodal-circuits and following a route that corresponds in order with the destination-address of the said second cell, the resulting sequence of said paths being progressively ordered from said first cell through adjoining nodes, and each node has means to latch itself and its adjoined signal-path open for bi-directional transmission of data between cells, the network being configured to enable a plurality of such routes therethrough to co-exist.
36. A connectivity as claimed in claim 35 in which: the second network comprises at least one labelled-tree of bi-directional signalling-paths and hierarchically-arranged, labelled signal-directing nodal-circuits; each said tree connects, bijectively at its leaf-level, a like plurality of subtended leaf-paths to the said plurality of cells; the first said cell has means thereby to switchably connect for communication, through a sequence of said labelled nodes and a subtended leaf-path, to the said second cell in accordance with a destination-address coding matching the hierarchically-ordered label-codes of the second cell's subtending tree-nodes; and, by virtue of the said monotonic sequence of cell addresses along said signalling-chain, each said leaf-path of at least one said tree connects to a corresponding cell bearing a correspondingly-coded address.
37. Connectivity as claimed in claim 35 in which each of the plurality of cells has a tree-searching state, and when in a tree-searching state has communication-initiating means operable to transmit into said second network a searching-signal switchable to select a sequence of said signal-directing nodes each with switch-means to select a path in response both to the searching-signal and to the presence of a free-state signal supplied through said second network from an unemployed cell, and to latch paths open for signalling through said second network, the said nodes and signals together being adapted to form a completed route from cell in a tree-searching state to unemployed cell, each such completed route interconnecting a respective pair of the cells and enabling exchange of digital-codes between the pair of cells.
38. Connectivity as claimed in claim 36 in which, each said signal-directing node is a tri-splitting switch forming a junction between three of said bi-directional signalling-paths, thereby offering six uni-directional paths through the node, an upper path being directed towards the root of the tree and left and right lateral paths each directed towards the subtended leaf-paths, free-state signals from the cells flowing through the two lateral paths towards the upper path and permitting a search signal to meet a free-state signal thereby switchably-directing said search-signal towards an unemployed cell, and further permitting two calling signals concurrently to pass through the node.
39. Connectivity as claimed in claim 35 in which a cell in a calling-state has means to acquire for signalling, through said signal-directing nodes, a pivot of designated scope with address composed from the ordering of the nodes in accordance with location of pivot along the said signalling chain.
40. A connectivity as claimed in claim 35 in which second network comprises several said labelled-trees, each connecting, bijectively at its leaf-level, a said plurality of subtended leaf-paths to the like-plurality of cells, any subtended calling-cell being thereby switchably connectable, for concurrent signalling, to several target-cells.
41. A connectivity as claimed in claim 40 in which some of several such labelled-trees are connected, each to respective cells, in a laterally-displaced fashion with respect to one another and each cell occupies a different leaf position in each of the displaced binary tree arrangements.
42. A connectivity as claimed in claim 40 in which some of several such labelled-trees are connected, each to respective cells, in a rotationally-displaced fashion with respect to one another and each cell occupies a different leaf position in each of the displaced binary tree arrangements.
43. A connectivity as claimed in claim 35 in which: several cells, with means for intercommunicating as a computing-community, enable storage and computation of a digitally-coded functional-expression from a user, each cell having logical and arithmetic processing circuitry at least for computing a sequence of instructions according to rules for reducing functional-expressions; the said sequence enables evaluation both of the computable function of the said functional-expression and of the calling-addresses of further ones of cells within said computing-community; and each of said further ones similarly computes a further functional-expression, returning a result in the form of a function-argument to be applied in the reduction of said digitally-coded functional-expression.
</claims>
</document>
