<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SALVE, VIVEK
MALLETTE, JENNIFER A.
Jauhari, Arjun
Jones, Steven Ware
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74190214
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NATURAL LANGUAGE RESPONSE RECOMMENDATION CLUSTERING FOR RAPID RETRIEVAL
</title>

<abstract>
An interaction pace for a live natural language interaction is set. An acceptable response latency range is determined according to the interaction pace. By analyzing a live natural language query, a set of metadata tags corresponding to the query is determined. Using the set of metadata tags, a set of clusters of natural language query-response pairs is selected, a size of the set of clusters selected according to the acceptable response latency range. From the set of clusters, a query-response pairs is selected, wherein the query of the query-response pair has above a threshold relevance score with the first natural language query. From the selected query-response pair, a response recommendation is extracted, the response recommendation being a recommended response to the live natural language query, a latency between receipt of the live natural language query and extraction of the response recommendation being within the acceptable response latency range.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: setting, for a live natural language interaction, an interaction pace; determining, according to the interaction pace, an acceptable response latency range; determining, by analyzing a live natural language query, a set of metadata tags corresponding to the query; selecting, using the set of metadata tags, a set of clusters of natural language query-response pairs, each query-response pair in the set comprising a natural language query and a corresponding natural language response, each cluster in the set defined according to a set of metadata tags previously applied to each query-response pair, a size of the set of clusters selected according to the acceptable response latency range; selecting, from the set of clusters, a query-response pair, wherein the query of the query-response pair has above a threshold relevance score with the first natural language query; and extracting, from the selected query-response pair, a response recommendation comprising the response of the selected query-response pair, the response recommendation being a recommended response to the live natural language query, a latency between receipt of the live natural language query and extraction of the response recommendation being within the acceptable response latency range.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of metadata tags comprises an intent tag, a value of the intent tag determined by analyzing, using a natural language intent analysis model, the first natural language query.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of metadata tags comprises an entity tag, a value of the entity tag determined by analyzing, using a natural language entity analysis model, the first natural language query.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of metadata tags comprises a role tag, a value of the role tag determined by analyzing, using a natural language role analysis model, the first natural language query.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each query-response pair in a first cluster has above a threshold semantic similarity to every other query-response pair in the first cluster.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each query-response pair in a first cluster has the same set of values of the previously applied set of metadata tags.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting, from the set of clusters, a second query-response pair, the second query-response pair having a highest relevance score with the first natural language query; determining, for each of a set of query-response pairs selected from the cluster containing the second query-response pair, a relevance score with the first natural language query; forming, within the cluster containing the second query-response pair, a set of sub-clusters, each sub-cluster defined according to a set of sub-cluster tags; selecting, from the set of sub-clusters, a third query-response pair, wherein the query of the query-response pair has above a threshold relevance score with the first natural language query; and extracting, from the third query-response pair, a response recommendation comprising the response of the selected query-response pair, the response recommendation being a recommended response to the live natural language query.
8. A computer usable program product comprising one or more computer-readable storage devices, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, the stored program instructions comprising: program instructions to set, for a live natural language interaction, an interaction pace; program instructions to determine, according to the interaction pace, an acceptable response latency range; program instructions to determine, by analyzing a live natural language query, a set of metadata tags corresponding to the query; program instructions to select, using the set of metadata tags, a set of clusters of natural language query-response pairs, each query-response pair in the set comprising a natural language query and a corresponding natural language response, each cluster in the set defined according to a set of metadata tags previously applied to each query-response pair, a size of the set of clusters selected according to the acceptable response latency range; program instructions to select, from the set of clusters, a query-response pair, wherein the query of the query-response pair has above a threshold relevance score with the first natural language query; and program instructions to extract, from the selected query-response pair, a response recommendation comprising the response of the selected query-response pair, the response recommendation being a recommended response to the live natural language query, a latency between receipt of the live natural language query and extraction of the response recommendation being within the acceptable response latency range.
9. The computer usable program product of claim 8, wherein the set of metadata tags comprises an intent tag, a value of the intent tag determined by analyzing, using a natural language intent analysis model, the first natural language query.
10. The computer usable program product of claim 8, wherein the set of metadata tags comprises an entity tag, a value of the entity tag determined by analyzing, using a natural language entity analysis model, the first natural language query.
11. The computer usable program product of claim 8, wherein the set of metadata tags comprises a role tag, a value of the role tag determined by analyzing, using a natural language role analysis model, the first natural language query.
12. The computer usable program product of claim 8, wherein each query-response pair in a first cluster has above a threshold semantic similarity to every other query-response pair in the first cluster.
13. The computer usable program product of claim 8, wherein each query-response pair in a first cluster has the same set of values of the previously applied set of metadata tags.
14. The computer usable program product of claim 8, further comprising: program instructions to select, from the set of clusters, a second query-response pair, the second query-response pair having a highest relevance score with the first natural language query; program instructions to determine, for each of a set of query-response pairs selected from the cluster containing the second query-response pair, a relevance score with the first natural language query; program instructions to form, within the cluster containing the second query-response pair, a set of sub-clusters, each sub-cluster defined according to a set of sub-cluster tags; program instructions to select, from the set of sub-clusters, a third query-response pair, wherein the query of the query-response pair has above a threshold relevance score with the first natural language query; and program instructions to extract, from the third query-response pair, a response recommendation comprising the response of the selected query-response pair, the response recommendation being a recommended response to the live natural language query.
15. The computer usable program product of claim 8, wherein the computer usable code is stored in a computer readable storage device in a data processing system, and wherein the computer usable code is transferred over a network from a remote data processing system.
16. The computer usable program product of claim 8, wherein the computer usable code is stored in a computer readable storage device in a server data processing system, and wherein the computer usable code is downloaded over a network to a remote data processing system for use in a computer readable storage device associated with the remote data processing system.
17. A computer system comprising one or more processors, one or more computer-readable memories, and one or more computer-readable storage devices, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, the stored program instructions comprising: program instructions to set, for a live natural language interaction, an interaction pace; program instructions to determine, according to the interaction pace, an acceptable response latency range; program instructions to determine, by analyzing a live natural language query, a set of metadata tags corresponding to the query; program instructions to select, using the set of metadata tags, a set of clusters of natural language query-response pairs, each query-response pair in the set comprising a natural language query and a corresponding natural language response, each cluster in the set defined according to a set of metadata tags previously applied to each query-response pair, a size of the set of clusters selected according to the acceptable response latency range; program instructions to select, from the set of clusters, a query-response pair, wherein the query of the query-response pair has above a threshold relevance score with the first natural language query; and program instructions to extract, from the selected query-response pair, a response recommendation comprising the response of the selected query-response pair, the response recommendation being a recommended response to the live natural language query, a latency between receipt of the live natural language query and extraction of the response recommendation being within the acceptable response latency range.
18. The computer system of claim 17, wherein the set of metadata tags comprises an intent tag, a value of the intent tag determined by analyzing, using a natural language intent analysis model, the first natural language query.
19. The computer system of claim 17, wherein the set of metadata tags comprises an entity tag, a value of the entity tag determined by analyzing, using a natural language entity analysis model, the first natural language query.
20. The computer system of claim 17, wherein the set of metadata tags comprises a role tag, a value of the role tag determined by analyzing, using a natural language role analysis model, the first natural language query.
</claims>
</document>
