<document>

<filing_date>
2020-10-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K1/12,G06K15/02,G06K19/02,G06K19/06,G06K19/07
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Trackonomy Systems, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
VOLKERINK, HENDRIK J.
KHOCHE, AJAY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74190393
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CORRELATING ASSET IDENTIFIERS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and computer-readable media provide automated identification techniques that associate at least two unique identifiers of one segment of a segmental multimode wireless flexible product to seamlessly and accurately bridge different identification methodologies to enable advanced real-time tracking of shipment location and status, and other such useful and advanced product and service offerings.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of fabricating a segmental multimode wireless flexible product having associated identifiers, comprising: attach an RFID inlay on a cover of, and aligned with, at least one segment of a tracking wireless flexible product, the at least one segment of the tracking wireless flexible product having the cover and a substrate that encapsulates a wireless communications interface, a processor, and a first memory storing a first unique identifier associated with an electronic component of the tracking wireless flexible product, the RFID inlay having a second memory storing a second unique identifier associated with the RFID inlay.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: scanning the first unique identifier and the second unique identifier with a scanner and transmitting the first unique identifier and the second unique identifier to a server having an association database.
3. The method of claim 2, the scanning comprising: scanning, using a first wireless module implementing a first wireless protocol, the first unique identifier; and scanning, using a second wireless module implementing a second wireless protocol different from the first wireless protocol, the second unique identifier.
4. The method of claim 3, the first wireless module and the second wireless module being components of a single scanner device.
5. The method of claim 4, the single scanner device being a component of a printer.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising storing the first unique identifier and the second unique identifier in an association database.
7. The method of claim 6, the association database associating the first unique identifier and the second unique identifier to allow a set of the first unique identifier and the second unique identifier corresponding to the segment to be returned in response to a query containing any one of the first unique identifier and the second unique identifier.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising attaching a barcode on the cover of, and aligned with, the at least one segment of the tracking wireless flexible product, a barcode encoding a third unique identifier.
9. The method of claim 8, the attaching the barcode comprising printing the barcode using a printer.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising obtaining, via a read operation, a write operation, or a read/write operation by an RFID encoder of the printer, the second unique identifier.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: storing the first unique identifier, the second unique identifier, and the third unique identifier in an association database.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first unique identifier and the second unique identifier are generated by one of a supplier of an asset and a company shipping the asset.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the segmental multimode wireless flexible product is in the form of an adhesive tape roll from which the at least one segment of the segmental multimode wireless flexible product is detachable.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the segmental multimode wireless flexible product is in the form of an adhesive sheet from which the at least one segment of the segmental multimode wireless flexible product is detachable.
15. A segmental multimode wireless flexible product printer, comprising: a printhead having an RFID encoder module and a barcode printer module; a transport mechanism for moving a wireless flexible product past the printhead; and a print controller having a first processor and first memory storing machine readable instructions that when executed by the first processor cause the first processor to: control the transport mechanism move a tracking wireless flexible product past the printhead, wherein each of at least one segment of the tracking wireless flexible product is formed with a cover and a substrate that encapsulates a wireless communications interface, a second processor, and a second memory storing a first unique identifier; control the printhead to print, on the cover of, and aligned with, the at least one segment of the tracking wireless flexible product, an RFID inlay having a third memory storing a second unique identifier; and store the first unique identifier in association with the second unique identifier in an association database, wherein the association allows a set of the first unique identifier and the second unique identifier corresponding to the segment to be returned in response to a query containing any one of the first unique identifier and the second unique identifier.
16. The segmental multimode wireless flexible product printer of claim 15, the print controller further comprising machine readable instructions stored in the first memory that, when executed by the first processor, cause the first processor to: control the printhead to print, on the cover of, and aligned with, the at least one segment of the tracking wireless flexible product, a barcode encoding a third unique identifier; and store the third unique identifier in association with the first unique identifier and the second unique identifier in the association database, wherein the association allows a set of the first unique identifier, the second unique identifier, and the third unique identifier corresponding to the segment to be returned in response to a query containing any one of the first unique identifier, the second unique identifier, and the third unique identifier.
17. A segmental multimode wireless flexible product having associated identifiers, comprising: a cover; a substrate that encapsulates a wireless communications interface, a processor, and a first memory storing a first unique identifier; and an RFID inlay located on the substrate having a second memory storing a second unique identifier; wherein the first unique identifier and the second unique identifier are correlated in an association database external to the segmental multimode wireless flexible product to allow a set of the first unique identifier and the second unique identifier to be returned in response to a query containing any one of the first unique identifier, and the second unique identifier.
18. The segmental multimode wireless flexible product of claim 17, further comprising a barcode located on the substrate, the barcode corresponding to a third unique identifier correlated to the first unique identifier and the second unique identifier.
19. The segmental multimode wireless flexible product of claim 17, further comprising a barcode located on the RFID inlay such that the RFID inlay is between the barcode and the substrate, the barcode corresponding to a third unique identifier correlated to the first unique identifier and the second unique identifier.
20. The segmental multimode wireless flexible product of claim 17, further comprising a barcode located on the substrate, the barcode corresponding to a third unique identifier correlated to the first unique identifier and the second unique identifier.
21. The segmental multimode wireless flexible product of claim 17, the first unique identifier corresponding to a first wireless protocol and the second unique identifier corresponding to a second wireless protocol.
</claims>
</document>
