<document>

<filing_date>
2020-10-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/93,G06Q30/00,G06Q30/02,H04M3/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERINT AMERICAS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MACKIE, SCOTT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74190458
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ORGANIZING AND INTEGRATING ELECTRONIC CUSTOMER SERVICE RESOURCES
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention is a system and method for organizing and integrating electronic customer service resources. A CEC system from a customer interaction receives data from a customer interaction and analyzes the data using a CAE incorporating a set of analytics rules before selecting a customer service module or a document from a document database based on the analysis. This data analysis and module or document selection repeats until all data received by the CEC system has been analyzed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for organizing and integrating electronic customer service resources, comprising: receiving interaction data in a customer engagement center (CEC) system from a customer interaction; providing, in real-time, with a processor, the interaction data to a central analytics engine (CAE) analyzing the interaction data provided by the CEC with the CAE by applying a set of analytics rules to the interaction data to determine which customer service modules from a set of customer service modules are accessed by the CAE; automatedly selecting, by the CAE, at least one customer service module to execute based on the CAE analysis; receiving the interaction data at the selected at least one customer service module; executing the selected at least one customer service module by applying the received interaction data to the at least one customer service module; automatedly updating the analytics rules based on the CAE analysis; and repeating, until all interaction data received by the CEC system has been analyzed by the CAE, wherein the CAE analysis will utilize the current set of updated analytics rules.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting the results of the execution of the at least one customer service module to the CAE, another customer service module, or a CEC desktop.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying the results of the execution of the at least one customer service module on a CEC desktop.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the at least one customer service module selecting an at least one document from a set of document databases based on the CAE analysis.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising displaying the at least one document on a CEC desktop.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein updating the analytics rules is further based on another CAE analysis from another CAE, or the execution of the at least one customer service module using the interaction data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein updating the analytics rules is further based on input from a CEC desktop.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising updating the at least one customer service module.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein updating the at least one customer service module is based on the CAE analysis, another CAE analysis from another CAE, or an execution of the at least one customer service module using the interaction data.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein updating the at least one customer service module is based on input from a CEC desktop or a system input.
11. A system for organizing and integrating electronic customer service resources, comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory computer readable medium programmed with computer readable code that upon execution by the processor causes the processor to execute a method for organizing and integrating electronic customer service resources, comprising: receiving interaction data in a customer engagement center (CEC) system from a customer interaction; providing, in real-time, with the processor, the interaction data to a central analytics engine (CAE); analyzing the interaction data provided by the CEC with the CAE by applying a set of analytics rules to the interaction data to determine which customer service modules from a set of customer service modules are accessed by the CAE; automatedly selecting, by the CAE, at least one customer service module to execute based on the CAE analysis; receiving the interaction data at the selected at least one customer service module; executing the selected at least one customer service module by applying the received interaction data to the at least one customer service module; automatedly updating the analytics rules based on the CAE analysis; and repeating, until all data received by the CEC system has been analyzed by the CAE, wherein the CAE analysis will utilize the current set of updated analytics rules.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein updating the analytics rules is further based on another CAE, or a customer service module.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein updating the analytics rules is further based on input from a CEC desktop.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one customer service module is updateable.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein updating the at least one customer service module is based on analysis from the CAE, another CAE, or an execution of the at least one customer service module.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein updating the at least one customer service module is based on input from a CEC desktop or a system input.
17. A non-transitory computer readable medium programmed with computer readable code that upon execution by a processor causes the processor to execute a method for organizing and integrating electronic customer service resources, comprising: receiving interaction data in a customer engagement center (CEC) system from a customer interaction; providing, in real-time, with a processor, the interaction data to a central analytics engine (CAE); analyzing the interaction data provided by the CEC with the CAE by applying a set of analytics rules to the interaction data to determine which customer service modules from a set of customer service modules are accessed by the CAE; automatedly selecting, by the CAE, at least one customer service module to execute based on the CAE analysis; receiving the interaction data at the selected at least one customer service module; executing the selected at least one customer service module by applying the received interaction data to the at least one customer service module; automatedly updating the analytics rules based on the CAE analysis; and repeating, until all data received by the CEC system has been analyzed by the CAE, wherein the CAE analysis will utilize the current set of updated analytics rules.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the method to be executed further comprises transmitting the results of the execution of the at least one customer service module to the CAE, another customer service module, or a CEC desktop.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the method to be executed further comprises displaying the results of the execution of the at least one customer service module on a CEC desktop.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the method to be executed further comprises the at least one customer service module selecting an at least one document from a set of document databases based on the CAE analysis.
</claims>
</document>
