<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06K9/72
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
MANNBY, CLAES-FREDRIK U.
McGlynn, Matthew
Wu, Yifan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70918997
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR COOPERATIVE TEXT RECOMMENDATION ACCEPTANCE IN A USER INTERFACE
</title>

<abstract>
Methods for cooperative text recommendation acceptance of completion options in a user interface are performed by systems and devices. A user provides inputs via a user interface (UI) that are stored in an input buffer. As a portion of a first input is received, completion options for some part of the first input are determined based on statistical probabilities and the portion. A completion option is selected and displayed via the UI as completing the first input in a differentiated manner from the user-entered input. The user then either generates an acceptance command for the completion option or continues providing the first input and the UI adapts the remaining completion option portion. Acceptance commands are accepted as space characters or as alphanumeric characters representing additional input that follows the first input and the completion option. Statistical likelihoods are used to account for typographical errors and misspellings in user inputs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processing system comprising one or more processors; and a memory configured to store program code to be executed by the processing system, the program code including: an input buffer configured to receive a first portion of a first input submitted by a user via a user interface (UI) and a second portion of a second input generated by the user via the UI; a pattern engine configured to: generate a statistical probability for each of a plurality of completion options of the first input based at least on the first portion of the first input; select one completion option of the plurality of completion options based at least on its statistical probability; determine that an alphanumeric character representation included in the second portion of the second input has another statistical probability, that exceeds a statistical probability threshold value, of following the selected completion option; and generate an acceptance command for the selected completion option based on the other statistical probability of the alphanumeric character representation exceeding the statistical probability threshold value; and an output manager configured to: cause the selected completion option to be displayed to the user via the UI with a characteristic that is different from the first portion of the first input; and accept the selected completion option based on the acceptance command.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the pattern engine is configured to: generate the statistical probability for said each of the plurality of completion options based at least on one or more of prior inputs stored by the input buffer or a language model of the user.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the input buffer is configured to: store at least the first portion of the first input and one or more prior inputs according to a buffer size; and receive subsequent inputs generated by the user via the UI; and wherein the system further comprises an error corrector configured to: monitor the subsequent inputs; and correct, based at least on the subsequent inputs, at least one of the selected completion option or the one or more prior inputs.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the pattern engine is configured to: generate the statistical probability for said each of the plurality of completion options based on a number of characters that are represented in the first portion of the first input; wherein the input buffer is configured to: track corrections to selected completion options made by the user; track acceptances of the selected completion options made by the user; and provide a number of the corrections and a number of the acceptances to the pattern engine; and wherein the pattern engine is further configured to: increase the number of characters based on the number of the corrections; and decrease the number of characters based on the number of the acceptances.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the pattern engine is configured to: determine that the selected completion option has a length that equals or that exceeds a length threshold; determine a recommendation length that is less than, or equal to, the length threshold based on the statistical probability for the selected completion option; and provide another acceptance command for a third portion of the selected completion option that is of the recommendation length to the output manager based on a third portion of the first input generated by the user via the UI, and received by the input buffer, that represents another alphanumeric character.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the pattern engine is configured to: identify one or more of at least one character, at least one n-gram, at least one phoneme, or at least one word as identified input from the first portion of the first input; and determine said each of the plurality of completion options based at least on a first comparison of the identified input with a stored data structure that includes one or more of a plurality of phonemes, a plurality of words, a plurality of phrases, a plurality of acronyms, a plurality of n-grams, or a plurality of abbreviations.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the error corrector is configured to: determine a potential typographical error is present in the first portion of the first input or one or more prior inputs stored by the input buffer based on a second comparison of the identified input with content of the stored data structure; and identify a correction for the potential typographical error; and wherein the pattern engine is configured to: determine a statistical likelihood or a weighted statistical likelihood for a correction of the first portion of the first input or the one or more prior inputs stored by the input buffer that corrects the potential typographical error, the statistical likelihood or the weighted statistical likelihood being based on zero or more of: a transposed or incorrectly ordered set of alphanumeric characters in the first portion of the first input or the one or more prior inputs stored by the input buffer, or a proximity of a first key to a second key on a keyboard; and determine said each of the plurality of completion options based on one or more of the statistical likelihood, the weighted statistical likelihood, or the correction.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the output manager is configured to: highlight via the UI a region of uncertainty related to the potential typographical error in the first portion of the first input or the one or more prior inputs stored by the input buffer.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the output manager is configured to: receive an indication that a user has entered additional input via the UI that is stored in the input buffer and that corresponds to an initial part of the selected completion option; cause the UI to maintain display of a remaining part of the one prediction recommendation; and accept the remaining part of the one prediction recommendation based on another acceptance command generated by the pattern engine.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the alphanumeric character representation corresponds to one or more characters of: a phoneme, a word, a phrase, an acronym, an n-gram, or an abbreviation.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the input buffer is configured to support a plurality of input modalities from a corresponding plurality of input/output interfaces.
12. A computer-implemented method comprising: storing a first portion of a first input submitted by a user via a user interface (UI) in a data structure of an input buffer; generating first statistical probabilities for each of a plurality of completion options of the first input based at least on the first portion of the first input; selecting one completion option of the plurality of completion options based at least on its statistical probability; causing the selected completion option to be displayed to the user via the UI with a characteristic that is different from the first portion of the first input; storing a second portion of a second input generated by the user via the UI in the data structure of the input buffer subsequent to said causing, the second portion comprising an alphanumeric character representation; determining that the alphanumeric character representation of the second portion of the second input has a second statistical probability, of following the selected completion option, that exceeds a statistical probability threshold value; generating an acceptance command for the selected completion option based at least on the second statistical probability exceeding the statistical probability threshold value; and accepting the selected completion option based on the acceptance command.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, further comprising: generating second statistical probabilities for each of another plurality of completion options of the second input based at least on the second portion of the second input; selecting one other completion option of the other plurality of completion options based at least on a statistical probability of the other one completion option; and causing the selected other completion option to be displayed to the user via the UI with the characteristic.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the alphanumeric character representation corresponds to one or more characters of: a phoneme, a word, a phrase, an acronym, an n-gram, or an abbreviation.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein said generating the first statistical probabilities for said each of the plurality of completion options is based at least on one or more of prior inputs stored by the input buffer or a language model of the user.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, further comprising: determining a potential typographical error is present in the first portion of the first input or one or more prior inputs stored by the input buffer based on a second comparison of an identified input of the first portion or the one or more prior inputs with content of the stored data structure, the identified input comprising one or more of at least one character, at least one n-gram, at least one phoneme, or at least one word; determining a statistical likelihood or a weighted statistical likelihood for a correction of the first portion of the first input or the one or more prior inputs stored by the input buffer that corrects the potential typographical error, the statistical likelihood or the weighted statistical likelihood being based on one or more of: a transposed or incorrectly ordered set of alphanumeric characters in the first portion of the first input or the one or more prior inputs stored by the input buffer, or a proximity of a first key to a second key on a keyboard; and determining said each of the plurality of completion options based on one or more of the statistical likelihood, the weighted statistical likelihood, or the correction.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, further comprising: receiving an indication that a user has entered additional input via the UI that is stored in the input buffer and that corresponds to an initial part of the selected completion option; and causing the UI to maintain display of a remaining part of the one prediction recommendation.
18. A computer-readable storage medium having program instructions recorded thereon that, when executed by at least one processing device, configure the at least one processing device to perform a method, the method comprising: generating first statistical probabilities for each of a plurality of completion options of a first input submitted by a user via a user interface (UI), and stored in an input buffer, based at least on a first portion of the first input; selecting one completion option of the plurality of completion options based at least on its statistical probability; causing the selected completion option to be displayed to the user as completing the first input via the UI with a characteristic that is different from the first portion of the first input; and monitoring the input buffer for a second portion of a second input, generated by the user via the UI and having at least one alphanumeric character representation, that causes generation of an acceptance command to accept the selected completion option, the acceptance command being generated based at least on a determination that the at least one alphanumeric character representation has a second statistical probability, of following the selected completion option, that exceeds a statistical probability threshold value.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the method comprises: accepting the selected completion option subsequent to generation of the acceptance command for the selected completion option.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the method comprises: initiating a completion timer responsive to said causing the selected completion option to be displayed to the user; and at least one of: causing the selected completion option to be removed from the UI based on the expiration of a completion timer, and terminating said monitoring; or including an acceptance timing indication as a factor to determine the second statistical probability based on an acceptance time being reached by the completion timer.
</claims>
</document>
