<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-11-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61H9/00,A61M5/172,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10,G06Q50/22,G16H20/10,G16H20/30,G16H40/63,G16H50/20,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WHITE BEAR MEDICAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOUGLAS, RYAN
GIGL, STEVEN M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55911395
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMICALLY CONTROLLED TREATMENT PROTOCOLS FOR AUTONOMOUS TREATMENT SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, and methods relate to a medical device receiving a treatment parameter operating point within a first operating region defined by a first set of operating points for which automatic incremental adjustment of a parameter in the current operation is permitted. In an illustrative example, incremental adjustment may use artificial intelligence based on patient feedback and sensor measurement of outcomes. Some exemplary devices may receive a request to alter the current treatment parameter operating point to a second treatment parameter operating point outside the first operating region and in a second operating region in a known safe operation zone, bounded by a known unsafe zone unavailable to the user. In the second operating region, some examples may restrict the step size of incremental adjustments requested by the user. Data may be collected for cloud-based analysis, for example, to facilitate discovery of more effective treatment protocols.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A therapeutic delivery apparatus comprising: a therapy delivery mechanism operably coupled to a processor and adapted to deliver a predetermined therapy to a patient according to a treatment parameter operating point defined by a set of parameters associated with the delivery of the therapy in response to receiving a command signal transmitted by the processor; a communication interface configured for communicating information about the patient to a remote or local server, the communicated information including information about a result of the therapy applied to the patient by the therapy delivery mechanism; the processor operably coupled to control the therapy delivery mechanism according to the treatment parameter operating point, and operably coupled to the communication interface to generate a message that includes the result of the therapy applied to the patient by the therapy delivery mechanism; and, a memory device operably coupled to the processor and containing instructions, that when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations to dynamically adjust the treatment parameter operating point, the operations comprising: receive a current treatment parameter operating point that lies within a first predetermined operating region defined by a first set of operating points for which automatic incremental adjustment of a parameter in the current operation is permitted; receive a request to alter the current treatment parameter operating point to a second treatment parameter operating point that lies outside of the first predetermined operating region and in a second predetermined operating region defined by a second set of operating points for which authorization is required, wherein the second predetermined operating region lies outside of the first predetermined operating region in a space of operating points; request authorization to alter the treatment parameter operating point from the first predetermined operating region to the second predetermined operating region; if the requested authorization is received, then generate a second command signal to the therapy delivery mechanism for delivering therapy to the patient according to the second treatment operating point; and, if the requested authorization is denied, then generate a first command signal to the therapy delivery mechanism for delivering therapy to the patient according to the first treatment operating point, wherein in response to the first command signal being received at the therapy delivery mechanism, the therapy delivery mechanism delivers a first predetermined therapy to the patient, the first predetermined therapy being associated with the first treatment operating point, wherein in response to the second command signal being received at the therapy delivery mechanism, the therapy delivery mechanism delivers a second predetermined therapy to the patient, the second predetermined therapy being associated with the second treatment operating point.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: generate a message to send to the remote or local server via the communication interface, said message containing data about at least one of: the therapy applied to the patient by the therapy delivery mechanism, and the result thereof.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the communication interface is further configured for receiving information about a first range of parameters that define the first predetermined operating region, and for receiving information about a second range of parameters that define the second predetermined operating region.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a user interface coupled to the processor and configured to receive user input representing user feedback about the result of the therapy applied to the patient by the therapy delivery mechanism.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: generate a message to send to the remote or local server via the communication interface, said message containing data about sensor measurements and user input feedback associated with the therapy applied to the patient by the therapy delivery mechanism.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the predetermined therapy comprises insulin therapy, and the therapy delivery mechanism comprises an insulin pump.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the predetermined therapy comprises wound care treatment.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the predetermined therapy is positive airway pressure therapy.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise, while the current operating point is in the first predetermined operating region, calculating an incrementally different treatment parameter operating point based on a function of at least one sensor measurement of the patient and a survey of user responses, and while the current operating point is in the second predetermined operating region, calculating a maximum allowed increment for the patient to adjust a parameter of the treatment parameter operating point.
10. A therapeutic delivery method comprising: providing a therapy delivery mechanism operably coupled to a processor and adapted to deliver a therapy to a patient according to a treatment parameter operating point defined by a set of parameters associated with the delivery of the therapy in response to receiving a command signal transmitted by the processor; providing a communication interface configured for communicating information about the patient to a remote or local server, the communicated information including information about a result of the therapy applied to the patient by the therapy delivery mechanism; providing the processor operably coupled to control the therapy delivery mechanism according to the treatment parameter operating point, and operably coupled to the communication interface to generate a message that includes the result of the therapy applied to the patient by the therapy delivery mechanism; and, providing a memory device operably coupled to the processor and containing instructions, that when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations to dynamically adjust the treatment parameter operating point, the operations comprising: receive a current treatment parameter operating point that lies within a first predetermined operating region defined by a first set of operating points for which automatic incremental adjustment of a parameter in the current operation is permitted; receive a request to alter the current treatment parameter operating point to a second treatment parameter operating point that lies outside of the first predetermined operating region and in a second predetermined operating region defined by a second set of operating points for which authorization is required, wherein the second predetermined operating region lies outside of the first predetermined operating region in a space of operating points; request authorization to alter the treatment parameter operating point from the first predetermined operating region to the second predetermined operating region; if the requested authorization is received, then generate a second command signal to the therapy delivery mechanism for delivering therapy to the patient according to the second treatment operating point; and, if the requested authorization is denied, then generate a first command signal to the therapy delivery mechanism for delivering therapy to the patient according to the first treatment operating point, adapting the therapy delivery mechanism to deliver a first predetermined therapy to the patient in response to the first command signal being received at the therapy delivery mechanism, wherein the first predetermined therapy is associated with the first treatment operating point, adapting the therapy delivery mechanism to deliver a second predetermined therapy to the patient in response to the second command signal being received at the therapy delivery mechanism, wherein the second predetermined therapy is associated with the first treatment operating point.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise: generate a message to send to the remote or local server via the communication interface, said message containing data about the therapy applied to the patient by the therapy delivery mechanism.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise: while the current operating point is in the first predetermined operating region, calculate an incrementally different treatment parameter operating point based on a function of at least one sensor measurement of the patient and a survey of user responses; and while the current operating point is in the second predetermined operating region, calculating a maximum allowed increment for the patient to adjust a parameter of the treatment parameter operating point.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the predetermined therapy comprises insulin therapy, and the therapy delivery mechanism comprises an insulin pump.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the predetermined therapy comprises wound care treatment.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the predetermined therapy is positive airway pressure therapy.
16. A therapeutic delivery apparatus comprising: a communication interface configured for communicating information about the patient to a remote or local server, the communicated information including information about a result of the therapy applied to the patient by a therapy delivery mechanism operably coupled to a processor, wherein the therapy delivery mechanism is adapted to deliver a therapy to a patient according to a treatment parameter operating point defined by a set of parameters associated with the delivery of the therapy; the processor operably configured to control the therapy delivery mechanism according to the treatment parameter operating point, and operably coupled to the communication interface to generate a message that includes the result of the therapy applied to the patient by the therapy delivery mechanism; and, a memory device operably coupled to the processor and containing instructions, that when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations to dynamically adjust the treatment parameter operating point, the operations comprising: receive a current treatment parameter operating point that lies within a first predetermined operating region defined by a first set of operating points for which automatic incremental adjustment of a parameter in the current operation is permitted; receive a request to alter the current treatment parameter operating point to a second treatment parameter operating point that lies outside of the first predetermined operating region and in a second predetermined operating region defined by a second set of operating points for which authorization is required, wherein the second predetermined operating region lies outside of the first predetermined operating region in a space of operating points; request authorization to alter the treatment parameter operating point from the first predetermined operating region to the second predetermined operating region; and, if the requested authorization is received, then generate a second command signal to the therapy delivery mechanism for delivering therapy to the patient according to the second treatment operating point, wherein in response to the second command signal being received at the therapy delivery mechanism, the therapy delivery mechanism delivers a second therapy to the patient, the second predetermined therapy being associated with the second treatment operating point.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: generate a message to send to the remote or local server via the communication interface, said message containing data about the therapy applied to the patient by the therapy delivery mechanism.
18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the predetermined therapy comprises insulin therapy, and the therapy delivery mechanism comprises an insulin pump.
19. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the predetermined therapy comprises wound care treatment.
20. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the predetermined therapy is positive airway pressure therapy.
</claims>
</document>
