<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/02,G06Q30/02,G08G1/0967,G08G1/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HONDA MOTOR COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
NOGUCHI, JUNPEI
TAGUCHI, RYOMA
TAKADA, YUTA
SUGIHARA, CHIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73222862
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INFORMATION PROCESSING DEVICE, INFORMATION PROCESSING METHOD, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
An information processing device includes an acquisition unit that acquires position information of a user of a vehicle parked in a parking lot, and a processing unit that determines whether or not an arrival time of the user at a predetermined position in the parking lot exceeds a reserved time period included in parking reservation information on the basis of the position information of the user, determines whether or not to move the vehicle from a parking position on the basis of a result of the determination as to whether the arrival time exceeds the reserved time period, and performs processing based on a result of the determination as to whether to move the vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing device comprising: an acquisition unit configured to acquire position information of a user of a vehicle parked in a parking lot; and a processing unit configured to determine whether or not an arrival time of the user at a predetermined position in the parking lot exceeds a reserved time period included in parking reservation information on the basis of the position information of the user, determine whether or not to move the vehicle from a parking position on the basis of a result of the determination as to whether the arrival time exceeds the reserved time period, and perform processing based on a result of the determination as to whether to move the vehicle.
2. The information processing device according to claim 1, further comprising a communication unit configured to communicate with a terminal device of the user, wherein the processing unit is configured to transmit information prompting extension of the reserved time period to the terminal device using the communication unit upon determining that the arrival time of the user at the predetermined position in the parking lot exceeds the reserved time period included in the parking reservation information and not to move the vehicle from the parking position when the communication unit has received information requesting extension of the reserved time period from the terminal device.
3. The information processing device according to claim 1, further comprising a communication unit configured to communicate with a terminal device of the user, wherein the processing unit is configured to transmit information prompting extension of the reserved time period to the terminal device using the communication unit upon determining that the arrival time of the user at the predetermined position in the parking lot exceeds the reserved time period included in the parking reservation information and move the vehicle from the parking position when the communication unit has not received information requesting extension of the reserved time period from the terminal device.
4. The information processing device according to claim 3, wherein the processing unit is configured to receive an operation of driving the vehicle performed by a manager of the parking lot when the communication unit has not received information requesting extension of the reserved time period from the terminal device.
5. The information processing device according to claim 2, wherein the processing unit is configured not to move the vehicle from the parking position if there is no parking reservation for a time period subsequent to the reserved time period when the communication unit has not received information requesting extension of the reserved time period from the terminal device.
6. The information processing device according to claim 5, wherein the processing unit is configured to calculate a parking fee of the vehicle by applying a penalty fee that is defined for a case where the reserved time period is exceeded in a parking fee table if there is no parking reservation for a time period subsequent to the reserved time period when the communication unit has not received information requesting extension of the reserved time period from the terminal device.
7. The information processing device according to claim 6, wherein the parking fee table is defined such that a parking fee per parking time unit is higher when the reserved time period has not been extended than when the reserved time period has been extended.
8. The information processing device according to claim 2, wherein the processing unit is configured to move the vehicle from the parking position if there is a parking reservation for a time period subsequent to the reserved time period when the communication unit has not received information requesting extension of the reserved time period from the terminal device.
9. The information processing device according to claim 8, wherein the processing unit is configured to, if there is a parking reservation for a time period subsequent to the reserved time period when the communication unit has not received information requesting extension of the reserved time period from the terminal device, move the vehicle parked in the parking lot from the parking position when a vehicle that has made the parking reservation has entered the parking lot.
10. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the processing unit is configured to set an upper limit of the number of vehicles which are collaterally moved from the parking position and change the upper limit on the basis of information acquired from the terminal device of the user.
11. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the information processing device is configured to function as a parking management device and perform a process of transmitting information instructing movement to the vehicle as a process of moving the vehicle from the parking position.
12. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the information processing device is mounted in a vehicle and configured to perform a process of causing the vehicle to automatically travel as a process of moving the vehicle from the parking position.
13. An information processing method comprising: acquiring by a computer, position information of a user of a vehicle parked in a parking lot; and determining by the computer, whether or not an arrival time of the user at a predetermined position in the parking lot exceeds a reserved time period included in parking reservation information on the basis of the position information of the user, determining whether or not to move the vehicle from a parking position on the basis of a result of the determination as to whether the arrival time exceeds the reserved time period, and performing processing based on a result of the determination as to whether to move the vehicle.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium that stores a program causing a computer to execute: a process of acquiring position information of a user of a vehicle parked in a parking lot; and a process of determining whether or not an arrival time of the user at a predetermined position in the parking lot exceeds a reserved time period included in parking reservation information on the basis of the position information of the user, determining whether or not to move the vehicle from a parking position on the basis of a result of the determination as to whether the arrival time exceeds the reserved time period, and performing processing based on a result of the determination as to whether to move the vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
