<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-09-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SINGH, VIVEK K.
SASTRY, KUMARA
SWANSON JOHN A
CHANG, LILLIAN
TOH, KENNY K.
SWAROOP, MANUJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69101660
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
UNSUPERVISED CLUSTERING TO IDENTIFY ANOMALIES
</title>

<abstract>
Images are accessed representing a status in a fabrication of a semiconductor chip corresponding to a particular stage in the fabrication. Distortion is removed from the images and actual features of the semiconductor chip are extracted from the images. Synthesized ideal features of the semiconductor chip associated with completion of the particular stage in the fabrication are determined from the one or more images. The actual features are compared to the ideal features to determine whether anomalies associated with the particular stage exist in the semiconductor chip
</abstract>

<claims>
1. At least one machine-readable storage medium with instructions stored thereon, wherein the instructions are executable by a machine to cause the machine to: receive an input, wherein the input comprises one or more images representing a status in a fabrication of a semiconductor chip, wherein the status corresponds to a stage in the fabrication; remove distortion from the one or more images; extract actual features of the semiconductor chip as observed from the one more images; determine synthesized ideal features of the semiconductor chip associated with completion of the stage in the fabrication from the one or more images; and compare the actual features to the ideal features to determine whether anomalies associated with the stage exist in the semiconductor chip.
2. The storage medium of claim 1, wherein the determination of the ideal features comprises using historical data to determine the ideal features from the one or more images.
3. The storage medium of claim 1, wherein the determination of the ideal features comprises using a design layout for the semiconductor chip to determine the ideal features from the one or more images.
4. The storage medium of claim 1, wherein the extraction of actual features comprises detecting contours visible on the one or more images.
5. The storage medium of claim 4, wherein the contours are detected based on differing colors in the one or more images.
6. The storage medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further executable to cause the machine to compare a first location of each actual feature on the one or more images with a second location of each of the ideal features on the one or more images.
7. The storage medium of claim 6, wherein the instructions are further executable to cause the machine to determine the type of distortion on one or more images by analyzing a pattern corresponding to the differences between the first location with the second location.
8. The storage medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further executable to cause the machine to: determine whether any distortion remains in the one or more images, and align the extracted features to the ideal features.
9. The storage medium of claim 8, wherein the instructions are further executable to cause the machine to calculate deviations between the aligned extracted features and ideal features, wherein the deviations comprise at least one difference between the extracted feature and the corresponding ideal feature.
10. The storage medium of claim 1, wherein the fabrication comprises a plurality of processing steps and the stage corresponds to completion of one of the plurality of processing steps.
11. The storage medium of claim 10, wherein the semiconductor chip is to be fabricated based on a chip layout design, fabrication of the semiconductor chip remains incomplete following completion of the processing step, the synthesized ideal features of the semiconductor chip represent a predicted appearance of at least a portion of the semiconductor chip following completion of the processing step, and the predicted appearance differs from a finished appearance defined in the chip layout design.
12. The storage medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further executable to cause the machine to classify the anomalies in one of a plurality of classifications.
13. The storage medium of claim 12, wherein the anomalies are classified according to an unsupervised clustering algorithm.
14. The storage medium of claim 1, wherein the one or more images are obtained using scanning electron microscopy.
15. A method comprising: receiving an input, wherein the input comprises one or more images representing a status in the fabrication of a semiconductor chip, wherein the status corresponds to a stage in the fabrication; removing distortion from the one or more images; extracting actual features of the semiconductor chip as observed from the one more images; determining synthesized ideal features of the semiconductor chip associated with the completion of the stage in the fabrication from the one or more images; and comparing the actual features to the ideal features to determine whether anomalies associated with the stage exist in the semiconductor chip.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the one or more images are obtained using scanning electron microscopy.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising: determining whether any distortion remains in the one or more images, and aligning the extracted features to the ideal features.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: classifying the anomalies in one of a plurality of classifications; wherein the anomalies are classified according to an unsupervised cluster algorithm.
19. A system comprising: at least one data processor; a memory; and a distortion filter, executable by the data processor to remove distortion from one or more images, wherein the one or more images represent a status in the fabrication of a semiconductor chip, the status corresponds to a stage in the fabrication, and the one or more images comprise scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images; a feature generator, executable by the data processor to: extract actual features from the one more images after removal of the distortion, wherein the actual features are observable from the one or more images; generate synthesized ideal features of the semiconductor chip associated with completion of the stage in the fabrication from the one or more images; an anomaly detector, executable by the data processor to: compare the actual features to the ideal features to determine whether anomalies associated with the stage exist in the semiconductor chip.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein: the distortion filter is further executable to determine whether any distortion remains in the one or more images; the anomaly detector is to determine whether anomalies exist by: aligning the extracted features to the ideal features; calculating deviations between the extracted features and ideal features; determining metrics based on the deviations, wherein the anomalies are determined based on the metrics; and classifying the anomalies according to a set of clusters using an unsupervised learning algorithm.
</claims>
</document>
