<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOBAYASHI, TAKEHIKO
MATSUZAWA, HIROFUMI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69179357
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VALIDATING TRAINING DATA OF CLASSIFIERS
</title>

<abstract>
A method, a computer program product, and a computer system for evaluation and modification of training data for classifiers. A computer system applies an each piece of training data of an each class to multiple classifiers. The computer system performs evaluation and validation of the training data for the each class and defines at least one representative class for the each piece of the training data of the each class if classification precision of the each piece of the training data is greater than a predetermined threshold. The computer system modifies the training data, based on results of the evaluation and the validation of the training data for the each class. The computer system performs evaluation and validation of the training data for representative classes. The computer system modifies the training data, based on results of the evaluation and the validation of the training data for the representative classes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for evaluation and modification of training data for classifiers, the method comprising: applying, by a computer system, an each piece of training data of an each class to multiple classifiers; performing, by the computer system, evaluation and validation of the training data for the each class; defining, by the computer system, at least one representative class for the each piece of the training data of the each class if classification precision of the each piece of the training data is greater than a predetermined threshold; modifying, by the computer system, the training data to create a first modified training data, based on results of the evaluation and the validation of the training data for the each class; performing, by the computer system, evaluation and validation of the first modified training data for representative classes; and modifying, by the computer system, the first modified training data to create a second modified training data, based on results of the evaluation and the validation of the first modified training data for the representative classes.
2. The method of claim 1, for the modifying the training data to create the first modified training data, further comprising: changing, by the computer system, a class value of a piece of the training data, in response to determining that classification precision of the piece of the training data is lower than a predetermined value and a representative class for the piece of the training data is a single class.
3. The method of claim 1, for the modifying the training data to create the first modified training data, further comprising: deleting, by the computer system, a piece of the training data, in response to determining that classification precision of the piece of the training data is lower than a predetermined value and a representative class for the piece of the training data is plural.
4. The method of claim 1, for the modifying the first modified training data to create the second modified training data, further comprising: removing, by the computer system, a class, in response to determining that classification precision of the class is lower than a predetermined value and a representative class for the class is plural.
5. The method of claim 1, for the modifying the first modified training data to create the second modified training data, further comprising: merging, by the computer system, two classes to one, in response to determining that classification precision for each of the two classes is lower than a predetermined value and a representative class of one of the two classes belongs to another one of the two classes.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein an analysis of a type I error is performed in the performing the evaluation and the validation of the training data for the each class, wherein an analysis of a type II error is performed in the performing the evaluation and the validation of the training data for the representative classes.
7. A computer program product for evaluation and modification of training data for classifiers, the computer program product comprising one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices, the program instructions executable to: apply, by a computer system, an each piece of training data of an each class to multiple classifiers; perform, by the computer system, evaluation and validation of the training data for the each class; define at least one representative class for the each piece of the training data of the each class if classification precision of the each piece of the training data is greater than a predetermined threshold; modify, by the computer system, the training data to create a first modified training data, based on results of the evaluation and the validation of the training data for the each class; perform, by the computer system, evaluation and validation of the first modified training data for representative classes; and modify, by the computer system, the first modified training data to create a second modified training data, based on results of the evaluation and the validation of the first modified training data for the representative classes.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, for modifying the training data to create the first modified training data, further comprising the program instructions executable to: change, by the computer system, a class value of a piece of the training data, in response to determining that classification precision of the piece of the training data is lower than a predetermined value and a representative class for the piece of the training data is a single class.
9. The computer program product of claim 7, for modifying the training data to create the first modified training data, further comprising the program instructions executable to: delete, by the computer system, a piece of the training data, in response to determining that classification precision of the piece of the training data is lower than a predetermined value and a representative class for the piece of the training data is plural.
10. The computer program product of claim 7, for modifying the first modified training data to create the second modified training data, further comprising the program instructions executable to: remove, by the computer system, a class, in response to determining that classification precision of the class is lower than a predetermined value and a representative class for the class is plural.
11. The computer program product of claim 7, for modifying the first modified training data to create the second modified training data, further comprising the program instructions executable to: merge, by the computer system, two classes to one, in response to determining that classification precision for each of the two classes is lower than a predetermined value and a representative class of one of the two classes belongs to another one of the two classes.
12. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein an analysis of a type I error is performed in performing the evaluation and the validation of the training data for the each class, wherein an analysis of a type II error is performed in performing the evaluation and the validation of the training data for the representative classes.
13. A computer system for evaluation and modification of training data for classifiers, the computer system comprising: one or more processors, one or more computer readable tangible storage devices, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more computer readable tangible storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors, the program instructions executable to: apply, by a computer system, an each piece of training data of an each class to multiple classifiers; perform, by the computer system, evaluation and validation of the training data for the each class; define at least one representative class for the each piece of the training data of the each class if classification precision of the each piece of the training data is greater than a predetermined threshold; modify, by the computer system, the training data to create a first modified training data, based on results of the evaluation and the validation of the training data for the each class; perform, by the computer system, evaluation and validation of the first modified training data for representative classes; and modify, by the computer system, the first modified training data to create a second modified training data, based on results of the evaluation and the validation of the first modified training data for the representative classes.
14. The computer system of claim 13, for modifying the training data to create the first modified training data, further comprising the program instructions executable to: change, by the computer system, a class value of a piece of the training data, in response to determining that classification precision of the piece of the training data is lower than a predetermined value and a representative class for the piece of the training data is a single class.
15. The computer system of claim 13, for modifying the training data to create the first modified training data, further comprising the program instructions executable to: delete, by the computer system, a piece of the training data, in response to determining that classification precision of the piece of the training data is lower than a predetermined value and a representative class for the piece of the training data is plural.
16. The computer system of claim 13, for modifying the first modified training data to create the second modified training data, further comprising the program instructions executable to: remove, by the computer system, a class, in response to determining that classification precision of the class is lower than a predetermined value and a representative class for the class is plural.
17. The computer system of claim 13, for modifying the first modified training data to create the second modified training data, further comprising the program instructions executable to: merge, by the computer system, two classes to one, in response to determining that classification precision for each of the two classes is lower than a predetermined value and a representative class of one of the two classes belongs to another one of the two classes.
18. The computer system of claim 13, wherein an analysis of a type I error is performed in performing the evaluation and the validation of the training data for the each class, wherein an analysis of a type II error is performed in performing the evaluation and the validation of the training data for the representative classes.
</claims>
</document>
