<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06T15/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
VEMBU, BALAJI
NAVALE, ADITYA
RAMADOSS, MURALI
KOKER, ALTUG
WHITE, BRYAN
NATU, MAHESH
SHAH, ANKUR
PUFFER, DAVE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70770724
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR SCALABLE ERROR DETECTION AND REPORTING
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus and method for scalable error reporting. For example, one embodiment of an apparatus comprises error detection circuitry to detect an error in a component of a first tile within a tile-based hierarchy of a processing device; error classification circuitry to classify the error and record first error data based on the classification; a first tile interface to combine the first error data with second error data received from one or more other components associated with the first tile to generate first accumulated error data; and a master tile interface to combine the first accumulated error data with second accumulated error data received from at least one other tile interface to generate second accumulated error data and to provide the second accumulated error data to a host executing an application to process the second accumulated error data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: detecting an error in a component of a first tile within a tile-based hierarchy of a processing device; classifying the error and recording first error data based on the classification; communicating the first error data related to the error to a first tile interface, the first tile interface to combine the first error data with second error data received from one or more other components associated with the first tile to generate first accumulated error data; communicating the first accumulated error data to a master tile interface, the master tile interface to combine the first accumulated error data with second accumulated error data received from at least one other tile interface to generate second accumulated error data; and providing the second accumulated error data to a host executing an application to process the second accumulated error data.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein classifying the error comprises identifying the error as fatal, non-fatal, or correctable.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein recording the error comprises storing error data associated with the error to a first register associated with fatal errors, a second register associated with non-fatal errors, or a third register associated with correctable errors, respectively.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the first error data, the first accumulated error data, and the second accumulated error data are communicated using a hierarchical interrupt transaction.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein the hierarchical interrupt transaction is performed based on a hierarchical interrupt structure comprising a first layer associated with the first tile and a second layer associated with a plurality of tiles, including the first tile.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the first error data, the first accumulated error data, and the second accumulated error data are communicated using a high speed bus architecture.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein the high speed bus architecture comprises a peripheral component interconnect express (PCIe) architecture.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein the first error data, the first accumulated error data, and the second accumulated error data are communicated using a first type of transaction or a second type of transaction based in response to an error routing controller.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein the first type of transaction comprises an interrupt transaction and the second type of transaction comprises a high speed bus architecture transaction.
10. An apparatus comprising: error detection circuitry to detect an error in a component of a first tile within a tile-based hierarchy of a processing device; error classification circuitry to classify the error and record first error data based on the classification; a first tile interface to combine the first error data with second error data received from one or more other components associated with the first tile to generate first accumulated error data; and a master tile interface to combine the first accumulated error data with second accumulated error data received from at least one other tile interface to generate second accumulated error data and to provide the second accumulated error data to a host executing an application to process the second accumulated error data.
11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein classifying the error comprises identifying the error as fatal, non-fatal, or correctable.
12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein recording the error comprises storing error data associated with the error to a first register associated with fatal errors, a second register associated with non-fatal errors, or a third register associated with correctable errors, respectively.
13. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the first error data, the first accumulated error data, and the second accumulated error data are communicated using a hierarchical interrupt transaction.
14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the hierarchical interrupt transaction is performed based on a hierarchical interrupt structure comprising a first layer associated with the first tile and a second layer associated with a plurality of tiles, including the first tile.
15. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the first error data, the first accumulated error data, and the second accumulated error data are communicated using a high speed bus architecture.
16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the high speed bus architecture comprises a peripheral component interconnect express (PCIe) architecture.
17. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the first error data, the first accumulated error data, and the second accumulated error data are communicated using a first type of transaction or a second type of transaction based in response to an error routing controller.
18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the first type of transaction comprises an interrupt transaction and the second type of transaction comprises a high speed bus architecture transaction.
19. A machine-readable medium having program code stored thereon which, when executed by a machine, causes the machine to perform the operations of: detecting an error in a component of a first tile within a tile-based hierarchy of a processing device; classifying the error and recording first error data based on the classification; communicating the first error data related to the error to a first tile interface, the first tile interface to combine the first error data with second error data received from one or more other components associated with the first tile to generate first accumulated error data; communicating the first accumulated error data to a master tile interface, the master tile interface to combine the first accumulated error data with second accumulated error data received from at least one other tile interface to generate second accumulated error data; and providing the second accumulated error data to a host executing an application to process the second accumulated error data.
20. The machine-readable medium of claim 19 wherein classifying the error comprises identifying the error as fatal, non-fatal, or correctable.
21. The machine-readable medium of claim 20 wherein recording the error comprises storing error data associated with the error to a first register associated with fatal errors, a second register associated with non-fatal errors, or a third register associated with correctable errors, respectively.
22. The machine-readable medium of claim 19 wherein the first error data, the first accumulated error data, and the second accumulated error data are communicated using a hierarchical interrupt transaction.
23. The machine-readable medium of claim 22 wherein the hierarchical interrupt transaction is performed based on a hierarchical interrupt structure comprising a first layer associated with the first tile and a second layer associated with a plurality of tiles, including the first tile.
24. The machine-readable medium of claim 19 wherein the first error data, the first accumulated error data, and the second accumulated error data are communicated using a high speed bus architecture.
25. The machine-readable medium of claim 24 wherein the high speed bus architecture comprises a peripheral component interconnect express (PCIe) architecture.
26. The machine-readable medium of claim 19 wherein the first error data, the first accumulated error data, and the second accumulated error data are communicated using a first type of transaction or a second type of transaction based in response to an error routing controller.
27. The machine-readable medium of claim 26 wherein the first type of transaction comprises an interrupt transaction and the second type of transaction comprises a high speed bus architecture transaction.
</claims>
</document>
