<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/242,G06F16/2457,G06F16/28,G06F40/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Promethium, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Lai, Kaycee
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514439
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SELECTIVE PREPROCESSING OF DATA STORED ACROSS HETEROGENEOUS DATA SOURCES
</title>

<abstract>
An analysis system connects to a set of data sources and perform natural language questions based on the data sources. The analysis system connects with the data sources and retrieves metadata describing data assets stored in each data source. The analysis system generates an execution plan for the natural language question. The analysis system finds data assets that match the received question based on the metadata. The analysis system ranks the data assets and presents the ranked data assets to users for allowing users to modify the execution plan. The analysis system may use execution plans of previously stored questions for executing new questions. The analysis system supports selective preprocessing of data to increase the data quality.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer-implemented method for selective preprocessing of data distributed across a plurality of data sources, the method comprising: receiving a set of questions, each question from the set of questions requesting data stored in one or more data sources from the plurality of data sources; for each question from the set of questions, generating an execution plan, the execution plan comprising instructions for processing data stored in one or more data sources; identifying a set of fields from the plurality of data sources, the set of fields storing data processed by execution plans of the set of questions; for each of the set of fields, determining a quality score for the field, the quality score indicative of a quality of data stored in the field; identifying a field of a data source from the set of fields having a quality score indicating that a quality of data stored in the field is below a threshold level; sending, to the data source storing the identified field, a request to update data stored in the field to improve the quality of data stored in the field information describing the identified field; receiving, from a client device, a new question; generating an execution plan for the new question, the execution plan processing data stored in one or more fields including the identified field; processing the execution plan to generate results for the new question; and sending the generated results to the client device.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the identified field is updated by transforming data of the identified field such that the quality of the identified field after transformation is better than the quality of the identified field before transformation.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining quality score of a field comprises: receiving at least a portion of the data of the field based on sampling of data of the field; and analyzing the quality of the received portion of the data of the field.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a quality score of a field is inversely related to a percentage of nulls in the field.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a quality score of a field is inversely related to a percentage of values in the field with data format errors.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a quality score of a field is indicative of a degree of compliance of the field with particular regulations.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a quality score of a field is indicative of a degree of compliance of the field with privacy regulations.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a quality score of a field is indicative of a degree of compliance with a privacy regulation for the field, wherein preprocessing of a field comprises: determining a lineage of the data stored in the field, the lineage identifying one or more sources of data, wherein the data stored in the field is obtained by processing the data from the one or more sources of data; for each of the one or more sources of data in the lineage of the data stored in the field, determining a degree of compliance with the privacy regulation for the source of the data; responsive to determining that the degree of compliance with the privacy regulation for a particular source of the data is below a threshold, regenerating the data stored in the field using a different source of data instead of the particular source of data.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the execution plan for a question comprises: determining a plurality of execution plans for the field; for each of the plurality of execution plans, determining a quality score indicative of the quality of fields processed by the execution plan; and selecting a particular execution plan having the quality score indicating the highest quality of the data processed by the execution plan.
10. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing computer-executable instructions for executing on a computer processor, the instructions when executed by the computer processor cause the computer processor to perform steps comprising: receiving a set of questions, each question from the set of questions requesting data stored in one or more data sources from a plurality of data sources; for each question from the set of questions, generating an execution plan, the execution plan comprising instructions for processing data stored in one or more data sources; identifying a set of fields from the plurality of data sources, the set of fields storing data processed by execution plans of the set of questions; for each of the set of fields, determining a quality score for the field, the quality score indicative of a quality of data stored in the field; identifying a field of a data source from the set of fields having a quality score indicating that a quality of data stored in the field is below a threshold level; sending, to the data source storing the identified field, a request to update data stored in the field to improve the quality of data stored in the field information describing the identified field; receiving, from a client device, a new question; generating an execution plan for the new question, the execution plan processing data stored in one or more fields including the identified field; processing the execution plan to generate results for the new question; and sending the generated results to the client device.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the identified field is updated by transforming data of the identified field such that the quality of the identified field after transformation is better than the quality of the identified field before transformation.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein instructions for determining quality score of a field cause the computer processor to perform steps comprising: receiving at least a portion of the data of the field based on sampling of data of the field; and analyzing the quality of the received portion of the data of the field.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein a quality score of a field is inversely related to a percentage of nulls in the field.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein a quality score of a field is inversely related to a percentage of values in the field with data format errors.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein a quality score of a field is indicative of a degree of compliance of the field with privacy regulations.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein a quality score of a field is indicative of a degree of compliance with a privacy regulation for the field, wherein instructions for preprocessing of a field cause the computer processor to perform steps comprising: determining a lineage of the data stored in the field, the lineage identifying one or more sources of data, wherein the data stored in the field is obtained by processing the data from the one or more sources of data; for each of the one or more sources of data in the lineage of the data stored in the field, determining a degree of compliance with the privacy regulation for the source of the data; responsive to determining that the degree of compliance with the privacy regulation for a particular source of the data is below a threshold, regenerating the data stored in the field using a different source of data instead of the particular source of data.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein instructions for determining the execution plan for a question cause the computer processor to perform steps comprising: determining a plurality of execution plans for the field; for each of the plurality of execution plans, determining a quality score indicative of the quality of fields processed by the execution plan; and selecting a particular execution plan having the quality score indicating the highest quality of the data processed by the execution plan.
18. A computer-implemented system comprising: a computer processor; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing computer-executable instructions for executing on a computer processor, the instructions when executed by the computer processor cause the computer processor to perform steps comprising: receiving a set of questions, each question from the set of questions requesting data stored in one or more data sources from a plurality of data sources; for each question from the set of questions, generating an execution plan, the execution plan comprising instructions for processing data stored in one or more data sources; identifying a set of fields from the plurality of data sources, the set of fields storing data processed by execution plans of the set of questions; for each of the set of fields, determining a quality score for the field, the quality score indicative of a quality of data stored in the field; identifying a field of a data source from the set of fields having a quality score indicating that a quality of data stored in the field is below a threshold level; sending, to the data source storing the identified field, a request to update data stored in the field to improve the quality of data stored in the field information describing the identified field; receiving, from a client device, a new question; generating an execution plan for the new question, the execution plan processing data stored in one or more fields including the identified field; processing the execution plan to generate results for the new question; and sending the generated results to the client device.
19. The computer-implemented system of claim 18, wherein a quality score of a field is indicative of a degree of compliance with a privacy regulation for the field, wherein instructions for preprocessing of a field cause the computer processor to perform steps comprising: determining a lineage of the data stored in the field, the lineage identifying one or more sources of data, wherein the data stored in the field is obtained by processing the data from the one or more sources of data; for each of the one or more sources of data in the lineage of the data stored in the field, determining a degree of compliance with the privacy regulation for the source of the data; responsive to determining that the degree of compliance with the privacy regulation for a particular source of the data is below a threshold, regenerating the data stored in the field using a different source of data instead of the particular source of data.
20. The computer-implemented system of claim 18, wherein instructions for determining the execution plan for a question cause the computer processor to perform steps comprising: determining a plurality of execution plans for the field; for each of the plurality of execution plans, determining a quality score indicative of the quality of fields processed by the execution plan; and selecting a particular execution plan having the quality score indicating the highest quality of the data processed by the execution plan.
</claims>
</document>
