<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06F16/955,G06F3/0484,G06F40/186,H04L12/58,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SLACK TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
JAMISON, BRITTON
Kowalczyk, Nathalie
Morris, Ryan David
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71842512
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Group-Based Communication System And Apparatus Configured To Manage Channel Titles Associated With Group-Based Communication Channels
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to an improved group-based communication apparatus that is configured to efficiently manage channel title associated with group-based communication channels in a group-based communication system. The group-based communication apparatus is configured to determine and recommend channel title suggestions in association with the creation or renaming of group-based communication channels. The recommended channel title suggestions are determined based at least in part on a group-defined format protocol. The group-based communication apparatus also may be configured to utilize other data analytics (e.g., user profile data, group channel data, channel title data, channel title count data, channel title recency data, channel activity data, and/or the like) to inform the determination of recommended channel title suggestions. Additionally, the channel title data may be combined with other data of the group-based communication workspace to assemble one or more work graph data structures as discussed in detail herein.
</abstract>

<claims>
That which is claimed:
1. A method, implemented at least in part by a server computing device associated with a communication platform, the method comprising: receiving, from a first computing device associated with a first user via an instance of an application associated with the communication platform, a request to generate a channel, the request comprising a group identifier; causing a channel creation interface associated with the application to be rendered for display at the first computing device based at least in part on the request; receiving, from the first computing device, an indication of interaction with the channel creation interface; determining, based at least in part on the indication of interaction and a naming protocol associated with the group identifier, at least a portion of a channel title to suggest to the first user; and causing the at least the portion of the channel title to be rendered for display via the channel creation interface.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least the portion of the channel title comprises a prefix associated with the channel title.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining at least the portion of the channel title to suggest to the first user based at least in part on at least one of: channel title data; channel title count data; channel title recency data; channel activity data; or channel metadata associated with channels corresponding to the group identifier.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from the first computing device via the channel creation interface, an input corresponding to the channel title associated with the channel; generating the channel based at least in part on the input; and associating the channel with the group identifier, the channel being associated with the channel title.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: receiving, from the first computing device, a request to modify the channel; causing a channel update interface associated with the application to be rendered for display at the first computing device based at least in part on the request to modify the channel, the channel update interface being configured for entry of a description of the channel; receiving, from the first computing device via the channel update interface, a second input corresponding to the description of the channel; and associating the description of the channel with the channel.
6. The method of claim 4, further comprising: receiving, from the first computing device, a request to modify the channel; causing a channel update interface associated with the application to be rendered for display at the first computing device based at least in part on the request to modify the channel, the channel update interface being configured for entry of an updated channel title; receiving, from the first computing device via the channel update interface, a request to rename the channel, the request comprising the updated channel title; comparing the updated channel title to the naming protocol to determine that the updated channel title does not comply with the naming protocol; generating a notification of non-compliance associated with the updated channel title; and causing the notification to be rendered for display at the first computing device or a second computing device associated with an administrator of the channel.
7. A system comprising: one or more processors; and computer readable media storing instructions that, when executed, cause the system to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a first computing device associated with a first user via an instance of an application associated with a communication platform, a request to generate a channel, the request comprising a group identifier; causing a channel creation interface associated with the application to be rendered for display at the first computing device based at least in part on the request; receiving, from the first computing device, an indication of interaction with the channel creation interface; determining, based at least in part on the indication of interaction and the group identifier associated with the request, at least a portion of a channel title to suggest to the first user; and causing the channel title to be rendered for display via the channel creation interface.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the at least the portion of the channel title comprises a pre-fix associated with the channel title.
9. The system of claim 7, the operations further comprising: receiving, from the first computing device via the channel creation interface, an input corresponding to the channel title associated with the channel; generating the channel based at least in part on the input; and associating the channel with at least one of the group identifier or the user identifier, the channel being associated with the channel title.
10. The system of claim 9, the operations further comprising: receiving, from the first computing device, a request to modify the channel; causing a channel update interface associated with the application to be rendered for display at the first computing device based at least in part on the request to modify the channel, the channel update interface being configured for entry of a description of the channel; receiving, from the first computing device via the channel update interface, a second input corresponding to the description of the channel; and associating the description of the channel with the channel.
11. The system of claim 9, the operations further comprising: receiving, from the first computing device, a request to modify the channel; causing a channel update interface associated with the application to be rendered for display at the first computing device based at least in part on the request to modify the channel, the channel update interface being configured for entry of an updated channel title; receiving, from the first computing device, an indication of interaction with the channel update interface; based at least in part on the indication of interaction with the channel update interface, determining an updated prefix for the channel to suggest to the first user; and causing the updated prefix to be presented for display at the first computing device.
12. The system of claim 9, the operations further comprising: receiving, from the first computing device, a request to modify the channel; causing a channel update interface associated with the application to be rendered for display at the first computing device based at least in part on the request to modify the channel, the channel update interface being configured for entry of an updated channel title; receiving, from the first computing device via the channel update interface, a request to rename the channel, the request comprising the updated channel title; comparing the updated channel title to a naming protocol associated with the group identifier to determine that the updated channel title does not comply with the naming protocol; generating a notification of non-compliance associated with the updated channel title; and causing the notification to be rendered for display at the first computing device or a second computing device associated with an administrator of the channel.
13. The system of claim 9, the operations further comprising: receiving, from the first computing device, a request to modify a parameter of the channel, wherein the parameter comprises at least one of an accessibility of the channel or a searchability of the channel; modifying the parameter of the channel based at least in part on the request; and associating the modified parameter with the channel.
14. The system of claim 7, wherein determining at least the portion of the channel title to suggest to the first user based at least in part on at least one of: channel title data; channel title count data; channel title recency data; channel activity data; or channel metadata associated with channels corresponding to the group identifier.
15. One or more non-transitory computer readable media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a server computing device associated with a communication platform, cause the server computing device to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a first computing device associated with a first user via an instance of an application associated with the communication platform, a request to generate a channel, the request comprising a group identifier; causing a channel creation interface associated with the application to be rendered for display at the first computing device based at least in part on the request; receiving, from the first computing device, an indication of interaction with the channel creation interface; determining, based at least in part on the indication of interaction and the group identifier associated with the request, at least a portion of a channel title to suggest to the first user; and causing the channel title to be rendered for display via the channel creation interface.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, wherein the at least the portion of the channel title comprises a pre-fix associated with the channel title.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, wherein determining the at least the portion of the channel title to suggest to the first user is based at least in part on at least one of: channel title data; channel title count data; channel title recency data; channel activity data; or channel metadata associated with channels corresponding to the group identifier.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, the operations further comprising: receiving, from the first computing device via the channel creation interface, an input corresponding to the channel title associated with the channel; generating the channel based at least in part on the input; and associating the channel with the group identifier, the channel being associated with the channel title.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 18, the operations further comprising: receiving, from the first computing device, a request to modify the channel; causing a channel update interface associated with the application to be rendered for display at the first computing device based at least in part on the request to modify the channel, the channel update interface being configured for entry of a description of the channel; receiving, from the first computing device via the channel update interface, a second input corresponding to the description of the channel; and associating the description of the channel with the channel.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 18, the operations further comprising: receiving, from the first computing device, a request to modify the channel; causing a channel update interface associated with the application to be rendered for display at the first computing device based at least in part on the request to modify the channel, the channel update interface being configured for entry of an updated channel title; receiving, from the first computing device via the channel update interface, a request to rename the channel, the request comprising the updated channel title; comparing the updated channel title to a naming protocol associated with the group identifier to determine that the updated channel title does not comply with the naming protocol; generating a notification of non-compliance associated with the updated channel title; and causing the notification to be rendered for display at the first computing device or a second computing device associated with an administrator of the channel.
</claims>
</document>
