<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLIED MATERIALS ISRAEL
</assignee>

<inventors>
COHEN, BOAZ
SHAUBI, OHAD
ASBAG, ASSAF
SUHANOV, Denis
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67548865
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD OF DEEP LEARNING-BASED EXAMINATION OF A SEMICONDUCTOR SPECIMEN AND SYSTEM THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a method of examination of a semiconductor specimen and a system thereof. The method comprises: using a trained Deep Neural Network (DNN) to process a fabrication process (FP) sample, wherein the FP sample comprises first FP image(s) received from first examination modality(s) and second FP image(s) received from second examination modality(s) which differs from the first examination modality(s), and wherein the trained DNN processes the first FP image(s) separately from the second FP image(s); and further processing by the trained DNN the results of such separate processing to obtain examination-related data specific for the given application and characterizing at least one of the processed FP images. When the FP sample further comprises numeric data associated with the FP image(s), the method further comprises processing by the trained DNN at least part of the numeric data separately from processing the first and the second FP images.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of examination a semiconductor specimen, the method comprising: upon obtaining by a computer a Deep Neural Network (DNN) trained for a given examination-related application within a semiconductor fabrication process, using the trained DNN to runtime process a fabrication process (FP) sample to be examined, wherein the FP sample comprises one or more first FP images received from one or more first examination modalities and one or more second FP images received from one or more second examination modalities different from the first examination modalities, and wherein the trained DNN processes the one or more first FP images separately from and in parallel to processing the one or more second FP images; and using the trained DNN to runtime process together, at least the results of the runtime processing of the one or more first FP images and of the one or more second FP images to obtain, by the computer, examination-related data specific for the given application and characterizing at least one of the processed FP images in the FP sample.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the FP sample further comprises numeric data associated with the FP images in the FP sample, the method further comprising: processing, by the trained DNN, at least part of the numeric data separately from processing the one or more first FP images and from processing the one or more second FP images; and obtaining the examination-related data specific for the given application by processing, by the trained DNN, the results of the separate processing of the one or more first FP images and of the one or more second FP images together with the results of processing the at least part of numeric data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the FP sample further comprises numeric data associated with the FP images in the FP sample, the method further comprising: processing, by the trained DNN, at least part of the numeric data separately from processing the one or more first FP images and from processing the one or more second FP images; and aggregating by the trained DNN the results of the separate processing of the one or more first FP images and of the one or more second FP images thus giving rise to aggregated image data; and obtaining the examination-related data specific for the given application by processing, by the trained DNN, the aggregated image data together with the results of the separate processing the at least part of numeric data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the examination-specific application is selected from a group comprising: detecting defects in the semiconductor specimen; classifying defects in the semiconductor specimen; registration between at least two fabrication process (FP) images; segmenting at least one FP image which is selected from the group comprising a high-resolution image of the semiconductor specimen, a low-resolution image of the semiconductor specimen and a design data-based image of the semiconductor specimen; regression-based reconstructing FP image in correspondence with data obtained by different examination modality and regression-based reconstruction of image properties.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more first examination modalities differ from the one or more second examination modalities by at least one of: examination tool, channel of the same examination tool, operational parameters of the same examination tool and/or channel, layers of the semiconductor specimen corresponding to respective FP images, nature of obtaining the FP images and deriving techniques applied to captured images.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more first FP images are low-resolution images and the one or more second FP images are high-resolution images.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein the numeric data comprise metadata and/or hand-crafted attributes.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the DNN is trained using FAB data collected for all types of layers and products from all manufacturing phases.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the DNN is coarsely trained on a data set different from the FAB data, and further finely trained for specific examination-related application on at least a part of the FAB data.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the examination-specific application is classifying defects in the semiconductor specimen, and wherein the examination-related data specific for the given application are classification-related attributes and/or classification labels characterizing at least one defect to be classified.
11. A system usable for examination of a semiconductor specimen, the system comprising a processing and memory block (PMB) operatively connected to an input interface and an output interface, wherein: the input interface is configured to receive one or more fabrication process (FP) images; the PMB is configured to: obtain a Deep Neural Network (DNN) trained for a given examination-related application within a semiconductor fabrication process; use the trained DNN to runtime process a fabrication process (FP) sample to be examined, wherein the FP sample comprises one or more first FP images received from one or more first examination modalities and one or more second FP images received from one or more second examination modalities which differ from the first examination modalities, and wherein the trained DNN processes the one or more first FP images separately from and in parallel to processing of the one or more second FP images; and use the trained DNN to runtime process together, at least the results of the runtime processing of the one or more first FP images and of the one or more second FP images to obtain, by the computer, examination-related data specific for the given application and characterizing at least one of the processed FP images in the FP sample.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the FP sample further comprises numeric data associated with the FP images in the FP sample, and wherein the PMC is further configured to: process, by the trained DNN, at least part of the numeric data separately from processing the one or more first FP images and from processing the one or more second FP images; and obtain the examination-related data specific for the given application by processing, by the trained DNN, the results of the separate processing of the one or more first FP images and of the one or more second FP images together with the at least part numeric data.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the FP sample further comprises numeric data associated with the FP images in the FP sample, and wherein the PMC is further configured to: process, by the trained DNN, at least part of the numeric data separately from processing the one or more first FP images and from processing the one or more second FP images; and aggregate by the trained DNN the results of the separate processing of the one or more first FP images and of the one or more second FP images thus giving rise to aggregated image data; and obtain the examination-related data specific for the given application by processing, by the trained DNN, the aggregated image data together with the results of the separate processing the at least part numeric data.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more first examination modalities differ from the one or more second examination modalities by at least one of: examination tool, channel of the same examination tool, operational parameters of the same examination tool and/or channel, layers of the semiconductor specimen corresponding to respective FP images, nature of obtaining the FP images and deriving techniques applied to captured images.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more first FP images are low-resolution images and the one or more second FP images are high-resolution images.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the numeric data comprise metadata and/or hand-crafted attributes.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the DNN is trained using FAB data collected for all types of layers and products from all manufacturing phases.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the DNN is coarsely trained on a data set different from the FAB data, and further finely trained for specific examination-related application on at least a part of the FAB data.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the examination-specific application is classifying defects in the semiconductor specimen, and wherein the examination-related data specific for the given application are classification-related attributes and/or classification labels characterizing at least one defect to be classified.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to perform a method of examining a semiconductor specimen, the method comprising: upon obtaining by a computer a Deep Neural Network (DNN) trained for a given examination-related application within a semiconductor fabrication process, using the obtained trained DNN to runtime process a fabrication process (FP) sample to be examined, wherein the FP sample comprises one or more first FP images received from one or more first examination modalities and one or more second FP images received from one or more second examination modalities which differ from the first examination modalities, and wherein the trained DNN processes the one or more first FP images separately from and in parallel to processing of the one or more second FP images; and using the trained DNN to runtime process together at least the results of the runtime processing of the one or more first FP images and of the one or more second FP images to obtain examination-related data specific for the given application and characterizing at least one of the processed one or more FP images in the FP sample.
</claims>
</document>
