<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/02,G06F11/07,G07C5/00,G07C5/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GM CRUISE HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
Suratna, Dennis
Duarte Gelvez, Pedro Miquel
Antonov, Vadim
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74044046
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE DATA MANAGEMENT PLATFORM
</title>

<abstract>
A data management platform for Autonomous Vehicles (AVs) is provided. An AV can partition raw data into ingestion objects. The AV can transform the ingestion objects and generate associated manifests. The AV can offload first copies of the manifests in real-time to a data center. At a later time, the AV can offload second copies of the manifests to an AV servicing station. The station can upload the second copies to the data center. If the manifests match, then the station can notify the AV that it is safe to erase the manifests and transformed objects from local storage after offloading completes. If the manifests do not match and a Service Level Agreement (SLA) is violated, then the AV can be docked for further diagnosis. If no SLA is applicable, then the error can be annotated and the transformed objects can be discarded.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: capturing raw data using one or more instruments of an Autonomous Vehicle (AV); partitioning the raw data into a plurality of ingestion objects; performing one or more transformations on the plurality of ingestion objects to generate a plurality of transformed objects and a plurality of manifests each respectively including a history of each transformed object and a data integrity value representing the transformed object; storing the plurality of transformed objects and the plurality of manifests in local storage of the AV; offloading first copies of the plurality of manifests from the AV to one or more data center computing systems at a first time; and offloading second copies of the plurality of manifests and the plurality of transformed objects from the AV to one or more AV servicing station computing systems at a second time.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: storing at least one new transformed object and a corresponding manifest in the local storage of the AV at a third time; offloading a first copy of the corresponding manifest from the AV to the one or more data center computing systems at a fourth time; offloading a second copy of the corresponding manifest and initiating offloading of the at least one new transformed object from the AV to the one or more AV servicing station computing systems at a fifth time; determining the first copy and the second copy do not correspond; determining a Service Level Agreements (SLA) corresponding to the at least one new transformed object is violated; and docking the AV at an AV servicing station for further diagnosis based on the SLA.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the SLA specifies a criticality of the at least one new transformed object.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the SLA specifies a maximum number of offload or upload errors.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: storing at least one new transformed object and a corresponding manifest in the local storage of the AV at a third time; offloading a first copy of the corresponding manifest from the AV to the one or more data center computing systems at a fourth time; offloading a second copy of the corresponding manifest and initiating offloading of the at least one new transformed object from the AV to the one or more AV servicing station computing systems at a fifth time; determining a period of time between receiving the first copy and the second copy violates an SLA; and docking the AV at an AV servicing station for further diagnosis based on the SLA.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: storing at least one new transformed object and a corresponding manifest in the local storage of the AV at a third time; offloading a first copy of the corresponding manifest from the AV to the one or more data center computing systems at a fourth time; offloading a second copy of the corresponding manifest and initiating offloading of the at least one new transformed object from the AV to the one or more AV servicing station computing systems at a fifth time; determining the first copy and the second copy do not correspond; determining no SLA is applicable to the at least one new transformed object; annotating error information corresponding to offloading or uploading the at least one new transformed object; and discarding the at least one new transformed object.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: storing at least one new transformed object and a corresponding manifest in the local storage of the AV at a third time; offloading a first copy of the corresponding manifest from the AV to the one or more data center computing systems at a fourth time; determining an SLA is violated based on the first copy; and docking the AV at an AV servicing station for further diagnosis based on the SLA.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more AV servicing station computing systems comprise an upload engine including a plurality of uploader processes, and the one or more data center computing systems include a distributed lock service coordinating the plurality of uploader processes.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first copies of the plurality of manifests are offloaded over a first communication channel, and the second copies of the plurality of manifests and the plurality of transformed objects are offloaded over a second communication channel.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining at least one first copy of a manifest of the plurality of manifests and a corresponding second copy of the manifest match; and scheduling uploading of a transformed object corresponding to the manifest between the one or more AV servicing station computing systems and the one or more data center computing systems at a time after the AV has completed offloading the transformed object to the one or more AV servicing station computing systems.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the one or more AV servicing station computing systems, an integrity value for at least one transformed object of the plurality of transformed objects that has completed offloading from the AV; reconciling the at least one transformed object based on a comparison between the integrity value and a second copy of a manifest corresponding to the at least one transformed object; and notifying the AV can erase a first copy of a manifest corresponding to the at least one transformed object and the at least one transformed object from the local storage of the AV.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: storing at least one new transformed object and a corresponding manifest in the local storage of the AV at a third time; offloading a first copy of the corresponding manifest from the AV to the one or more data center computing systems at a fourth time; initiating offloading of a second copy of the corresponding manifest and the at least one new transformed object from the AV to a first AV servicing station computing system at a fifth time; and offloading the second copy and the at least one new transformed object from the AV to a second AV servicing station at a sixth time.
13. A system, comprising: one or more processors; memory including instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: capture raw data using one or more instruments of an Autonomous Vehicle (AV); partition the raw data into a plurality of ingestion objects; perform one or more transformations on the plurality of ingestion objects to generate a plurality of transformed objects and a plurality of manifests each respectively including a history of each transformed object and a data integrity value representing the transformed object; store the plurality of transformed objects and the plurality of manifests in local storage of the AV; offload first copies of the plurality of manifests from the AV to one or more data center computing systems at a first time; and offload second copies of the plurality of manifests and the plurality of transformed objects from the AV to one or more AV servicing station computing systems at a second time.
14. The system of claim 13, further comprising further instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the system to: store at least one new transformed object and a corresponding manifest in the local storage of the AV at a third time; offload a first copy of the corresponding manifest from the AV to the one or more data center computing systems at a fourth time; offload a second copy of the corresponding manifest and initiate offloading of the at least one new transformed object from the AV to the one or more AV servicing station computing systems at a fifth time; determine the first copy and the second copy do not correspond; determine a Service Level Agreements (SLA) corresponding to the at least one new transformed object is violated; and dock the AV at an AV servicing station for further diagnosis based on the SLA.
15. The system of claim 13, further comprising further instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the system to: store at least one new transformed object and a corresponding manifest in the local storage of the AV at a third time; offload a first copy of the corresponding manifest from the AV to the one or more data center computing systems at a fourth time; offload a second copy of the corresponding manifest and initiate offloading of the at least one new transformed object from the AV to the one or more AV servicing station computing systems at a fifth time; determine a period of time between receiving the first copy and the second copy violates an SLA; and dock the AV at an AV servicing station for further diagnosis based on the SLA.
16. The system of claim 13, further comprising further instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the system to: store at least one new transformed object and a corresponding manifest in the local storage of the AV at a third time; offload a first copy of the corresponding manifest from the AV to the one or more data center computing systems at a fourth time; offload a second copy of the corresponding manifest and initiating offloading of the at least one new transformed object from the AV to the one or more AV servicing station computing systems at a fifth time; determine the first copy and the second copy do not correspond; determine no SLA is applicable to the at least one new transformed object; annotate error information corresponding to offloading or uploading the at least one new transformed object; and discard the at least one new transformed object.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a computing system, cause the computing system to: capture raw data using one or more instruments of an Autonomous Vehicle (AV); partition the raw data into a plurality of ingestion objects; perform one or more transformations on the plurality of ingestion objects to generate a plurality of transformed objects and a plurality of manifests each respectively including a history of each transformed object and a data integrity value representing the transformed object; store the plurality of transformed objects and the plurality of manifests in local storage of the AV; offload first copies of the plurality of manifests from the AV to one or more data center computing systems at a first time; and offload second copies of the plurality of manifests and the plurality of transformed objects from the AV to one or more AV servicing station computing systems at a second time.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, further comprising further instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the computing system to: store at least one new transformed object and a corresponding manifest in the local storage of the AV at a third time; offload a first copy of the corresponding manifest from the AV to the one or more data center computing systems at a fourth time; determine an SLA is violated based on the first copy; and dock the AV at an AV servicing station for further diagnosis based on the SLA.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, further comprising further instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the computing system to: determine at least one first copy of a manifest of the plurality of manifests and a corresponding second copy of the manifest match; and schedule uploading of a transformed object corresponding to the manifest between the one or more AV servicing station computing systems and the one or more data center computing systems at a time after the AV has completed offloading the transformed object to the one or more AV servicing station computing systems.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, storing at least one new transformed object and a corresponding manifest in the local storage of the AV at a third time; offload a first copy of the corresponding manifest from the AV to the one or more data center computing systems at a fourth time; initiate offloading of a second copy of the corresponding manifest and the at least one new transformed object from the AV to a first AV servicing station computing system at a fifth time; and offload the second copy and the at least one new transformed object from the AV to a second AV servicing station at a sixth time.
</claims>
</document>
