<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N5/232,H04N5/3745
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
MIYATANI, YOSHITAKA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66173306
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGING DEVICE, IMAGE PROCESSING APPARATUS, IMAGE PROCESSING METHOD, AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to an imaging device, an image processing apparatus, an image processing method, and a program by which the versatility of an imaging device is improved. The imaging device includes a semiconductor substrate, a plurality of directive pixel output units formed on the semiconductor substrate and having a configuration for receiving incident light from an imaging target entering without intervention of any of an imaging lens and a pinhole, the configuration being operable to independently set an incident angle directivity indicative of a directivity to an incident angle of the incident light, and a plurality of non-directive pixel output units formed on the semiconductor substrate and having no configuration for providing the incident angle directivity. The present disclosure can be applied, for example, to imaging apparatus.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An imaging device comprising: a semiconductor substrate; a plurality of directive pixel output units formed on the semiconductor substrate and having a configuration for receiving incident light from an imaging target entering without intervention of any of an imaging lens and a pinhole, the configuration being operable to independently set an incident angle directivity indicative of a directivity to an incident angle of the incident light; and a plurality of non-directive pixel output units formed on the semiconductor substrate and having no configuration for providing the incident angle directivity.
2. The imaging device according to claim 1, wherein a detection image in which an image of the imaging target is not formed is generated from detection signals outputted from the respective directive pixel output units, and a captured image in which an image of the imaging target is formed is generated from detection signals outputted from the respective non-directive pixel output units.
3. The imaging device according to claim 2, wherein the number of the directive pixel output units used for generation of the detection image and the number of the non-directive pixel output units used for generation of the captured image coincide with each other, and an angle of view of a restoration image restored using the detection image and an angle of view of the captured image coincide with each other.
4. The imaging device according to claim 1, wherein the non-directive pixel output units are arranged in a rectangular region.
5. The imaging device according to claim 4, wherein the directive pixel output units are arranged around the rectangular region.
6. The imaging device according to claim 1, wherein the directive pixel output units each include one photodiode, and a light shielding film configured to shield incidence of part of the incident light to the photodiode.
7. The imaging device according to claim 1, wherein the directive pixel output units each include a plurality of photodiodes and output one detection signal to which some of the plurality of photodiodes contribute.
8. The imaging device according to claim 1, wherein the imaging device has a configuration for causing output pixel values of at least two directive pixel output units from among the plurality of directive pixel output units to have incident angle directivities to incident light from the imaging target different from each other.
9. An image processing apparatus comprising: an image generation controlling section configured to control an output image generation process selectively using detection signals outputted from a plurality of directive pixel output units of an imaging device and detection signals outputted from a plurality of non-directive pixel output units of the imaging device, the imaging device including a semiconductor substrate, the plurality of directive pixel output units formed on the semiconductor substrate and having a configuration for receiving incident light from an imaging target entering without intervention of any of an imaging lens and a pinhole, the configuration being operable to independently set an incident angle directivity indicative of a directivity to an incident angle of the incident light, and the plurality of non-directive pixel output units formed on the semiconductor substrate and having no configuration for providing the incident angle directivity.
10. The image processing apparatus according to claim 9, further comprising: the imaging device.
11. The image processing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the non-directive pixel output units are each arranged in a region in which, in a case where an imaging lens is attached to the image processing apparatus, an image of the imaging target is formed by the imaging lens.
12. The image processing apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the image generation controlling section controls the output image generation process such that one of a detection image including a detection signal outputted from the plurality of directive pixel output units or a captured image including a detection signal outputted from the plurality of non-directive pixel output units is selected on a basis of whether or not the imaging lens is attached to the image processing apparatus.
13. The image processing apparatus according to claim 11, wherein at least some of the directive pixel output units are arranged in an image circle of the imaging lens in a state in which the imaging lens is attached to the image processing apparatus, the image processing apparatus further comprising: a focus controlling section configured to adjust, in a case where the imaging lens is attached to the image processing apparatus, a focus of the image processing apparatus on a basis of detection signals outputted from at least two of the directive pixel output units in the image circle.
14. The image processing apparatus according to claim 10, further comprising: an exposure controlling section configured to perform exposure control on a basis of a detection signal outputted from at least one of the non-directive pixel output units.
15. The image processing apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the exposure controlling section controls exposure of the directive pixel output units.
16. The image processing apparatus according to claim 9, further comprising: an image processing section configured to restore a restoration image using a detection image including detection signals outputted from the plurality of directive pixel output units.
17. An image processing method comprising: an image generation controlling step of controlling an output image generation process selectively using detection signals outputted from a plurality of directive pixel output units of an imaging device and detection signals outputted from a plurality of non-directive pixel output units of the imaging device, the imaging device including a semiconductor substrate, the plurality of directive pixel output units formed on the semiconductor substrate and having a configuration for receiving incident light from an imaging target entering without intervention of any of an imaging lens and a pinhole, the configuration being operable to independently set an incident angle directivity indicative of a directivity to an incident angle of the incident light, and the plurality of non-directive pixel output units formed on the semiconductor substrate and having no configuration for providing the incident angle directivity.
18. A program for causing a computer to execute a process comprising: an image generation controlling step of controlling an output image generation process selectively using detection signals outputted from a plurality of directive pixel output units of an imaging device and detection signals outputted from a plurality of non-directive pixel output units of the imaging device, the imaging device including a semiconductor substrate, the plurality of directive pixel output units formed on the semiconductor substrate and having a configuration for receiving incident light from an imaging target entering without intervention of any of an imaging lens and a pinhole, the configuration being operable to independently set an incident angle directivity indicative of a directivity to an incident angle of the incident light, and the plurality of non-directive pixel output units formed on the semiconductor substrate and having no configuration for providing the incident angle directivity.
</claims>
</document>
