<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B34/10,A61C7/00,G06T19/20,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIGN TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI, YINGJIE
BUSHEV, ANDREY
GAO, YUN
Shi, Chao
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70919174
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VISUAL PRESENTATION OF GINGIVAL LINE GENERATED BASED ON 3D TOOTH MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods of simulating dental treatments are disclosed. A method may include capturing a first 2D image of a patient's face, including the patient's teeth, building a parametric 3D model of the patient's teeth and gingiva based on the first 2D image, developing a simulated outcome of a dental treatment of the patient's teeth by rendering the parametric 3D model with the patient's teeth in one or more positions and/or orientations corresponding to the treatment goals of the dental treatment plan, and rendering a second 2D image of the patient's face with gingiva and teeth according to a simulated outcome of the dental treatment plan. As noted herein, the dental treatment plan may include orthodontic and/or restorative elements. The simulated outcome may correspond to estimated outcomes and/or intended outcomes of the dental treatment plan.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of simulating orthodontic treatment, the computer-implemented method comprising: capturing a first 2D image, the first 2D image comprising a representation of a patient's face and a patient's teeth; identifying one or more shapes associated with at least one of the patient's teeth; building a parametric 3D model of the patient's teeth based on the first 2D image, using one or more case-specific parameters for the one or more shapes associated with the at least one of the patient's teeth; simulating a position of the patient's teeth by rendering the parametric 3D model with the patient's teeth in a predetermined position; simulating a patient's gingiva by building a parameterized gingiva line comprising patient-specific input parameters; and rendering a second 2D image representing the patient's face, the second 2D image representing the patient's teeth in accordance with the predetermined position and the patient's gingiva in accordance with the parameterized gingiva line.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein building the parameterized gingiva line comprises: determining one or more edges of teeth, one or more of edges of gingiva, and one or more edges of lips in the first 2D image; determining the patient-specific input parameters from the one or more edges of teeth, the one or more of edges of gingiva, and the one or more edges of lips.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein building the parameterized gingiva line further comprises modifying the patient-specific input parameters based on simulated input parameters.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the patient-specific input parameters comprise one or more of: a maximal distance between a lip and a gingiva line, a minimal distance between the lip and the gingiva line, or a width of a tooth at an incisal edge.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the simulated input parameters comprise one or more of: a gingiva tip parameter, an ideal tooth height, a tooth thickness, a distance from the gingiva line to the lip, or a visible tooth height.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein building the parametrized gingiva line comprises: modeling the parametric 3D model of the patient's teeth as a cylinder; identifying coordinates on the cylinder defined by the simulated input parameters comprising, a gingiva tip parameter, a visible tooth height, and a distance from a gingiva line to the lip; cutting the cylinder cross-sectionally by a tilted plane; and simulating the parameterized gingiva line as the line of intersection between the tilted plane and the cylinder projected onto the parametric 3D model.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising rendering a leveled gum line, wherein rendering the leveled gum line comprises aligning coordinates of the parameterized gingiva line.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the coordinates of the parameterized gingiva line are aligned to a second degree polynomial.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: finding edges of teeth, gingiva, and lips in the first 2D image; and aligning the parametric 3D tooth model to the edges of the teeth, gingiva, and lips in the first 2D image.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first 2D image comprises a profile image representing a profile of the patient's face.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined position comprises an initial position.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined position comprises a final position.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the final position comprises a position after an orthodontic treatment plan, a restorative treatment plan, or some combination thereof.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein capturing the first 2D image comprises: instructing a mobile phone or a camera to image the patient's face, or gathering the first 2D image from a storage device or a networked system.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein building the parametric 3D model of the patient's teeth based on the first 2D image, using the one or more case-specific parameters for the one or more shapes associated with the at least one of the patient's teeth comprises: coarsely aligning teeth represented in the parametric 3D model to the patient's teeth represented in the first 2D image; and executing an expectation step to determine a probability that a projection of a silhouette of the parametric 3D model matches one or more edges of the first 2D image a first time.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein building the parametric 3D model of the patient's teeth based on the first 2D image, using the one or more case-specific parameters for the one or more shapes associated with the at least one of the patient's teeth comprises: executing a maximization step using a small angle approximation to linearize the rigid transformation of the teeth in the parametric 3D model; and executing the expectation step to determine a probability that a projection of a silhouette of the parametric 3D model matches the edges of the 2D image a second time.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, further comprising: iterating though the expectation and maximization steps a first plurality of times with a first subset of parameters; and after iterating though the expectation and maximization steps the first plurality of times with the first subset of parameters of the parametric 3D model, iterating though the expectation and maximization steps a second plurality of times with the first subset of parameters and a second subset of parameters.
18. A computer-implemented method of simulating a patient's gingiva, the computer-implemented method comprising: capturing a first 2D image of a patient's face, including their teeth, lips, and gingiva; building a parametric model of the patient's gingiva based on the first 2D image, the parametric model comprising patient-specific input parameters for the patient's gingiva; rendering a second 2D image of the patient's face with teeth and gingiva based on the parametric model of the patient's gingiva.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein building the parametric model of the patient's gingiva comprises: determining edges of teeth, gingiva, and lips in the first 2D image; determining the patient-specific input parameters based on the determined edges of the teeth, the lips, and the gingiva.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein the computer-implemented method further comprises building a parametric 3D model of the patient's teeth based on the first 2D image, using one or more case-specific parameters for one or more shapes associated with at least one of the patient's teeth.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 20, wherein building the parametric model of the patient's gingiva further comprises modifying the patient-specific input parameters based on a plurality of simulated input parameters, wherein one or more of the plurality of simulated input parameters are based on the parametric 3D model of the patient's teeth.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein the patient-specific input parameters comprise one or more of a maximal distance between the lip and a gingiva line, a minimal distance between the lip and the gingiva line, and a width of a tooth at an incisal edge.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the plurality of simulated input parameters comprise one or more of: a gingiva tip parameter, an ideal tooth height, a tooth thickness, a distance from a gingiva line to the lip, or a visible tooth height.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein building the parametric model of the patient's gingiva comprises: modeling the parametric 3D model of the patient's teeth as a cylinder; identifying coordinates on a cylinder defined by the plurality of simulated input parameters comprising, a gingiva tip parameter, a visible tooth height, and a distance from a gingiva line to the lip; cutting the cylinder cross-sectionally by a tilted plane; and simulating a parameterized gingiva line as the line of intersection between the tilted plane and the cylinder.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, further comprising rendering a leveled gum line, wherein rendering the leveled gum line comprises aligning coordinates of the parametric model of the patient's gingiva.
26. The computer-implemented method of claim 25, wherein the coordinates of the parametric model of the patient's gingiva are aligned to a second degree polynomial.
27. The computer-implemented method of claim 20, further comprising: finding edges of teeth, gingiva, and lips in the first 2D image; and aligning the parametric model to the edges of the teeth, the gingiva, and the lips in the first 2D image.
28. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein the first 2D image comprises a profile image representing a profile of the patient's face.
29. The computer-implemented method of claim 19, further comprising storing the patient-specific parameters of the parametric model of the patient's gingiva that align the parametric model of the patient's gingiva with the edges of the teeth, the gingiva, and the lips in the first 2D image.
30. 30-37. (canceled)
38. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, further comprising rendering a leveled gum line, wherein rendering the leveled gum line comprises aligning coordinates of the parametric model of the patient's gingiva.
39. 39-42. (canceled)
43. A system comprising: a photo parameterization engine configured to generate a parameterized gingiva line and a 3D parametric arch model from a 2D image of a patient's face, gingiva, and teeth, the 3D parametric arch model including case-specific parameters for a shape of at least one of the patient's teeth, the parameterized gingiva line including patient-specific input parameters for a shape of the gingiva; and a parametric treatment prediction engine configured to simulate orthodontic treatment of a patient based on the 3D parametric arch model and historic models of a plurality of patients.
44. 44-45. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
