<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T11/00,H04L29/06,H04W4/021,H04W4/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TMRW FOUNDATION IP & HOLDING
</assignee>

<inventors>
YERLI, CEVAT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71111229
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LOCATION-BASED APPLICATION STREAM ACTIVATION
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method enabling location-based activation of applications. The system comprises one or more servers storing and providing a persistent virtual world system including a virtual version of the real-world comprising one or more applications virtually attached to virtual-world entities positioned according to real-world coordinates, and being configured to compute the state of the virtual-world entities and to process the applications; send a minimum amount of application graphical representation to the user device responsive to receiving a notification of a user device accessing a trigger zone associated with the application(s); determine suitable application media streams to be sent to the user device responsive to receiving a notification of user interaction with the application graphical representation, perform heavy-load computational tasks on the media streams, and deliver the streams to the user devices, which perform lightweight computational tasks on the media content to output the media content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system enabling location-based activation of applications, comprising: one or more servers comprising a memory and a processor, the one or more servers storing and providing a persistent virtual world system including a virtual version of a real-world space, the virtual version comprising one or more applications virtually attached to virtual-world entities positioned according to real-world coordinates, and the one or more servers being configured at least to: compute the state of the virtual-world entities; responsive to detecting a user device entering a trigger zone associated with the one or more applications, send a minimum amount of application graphical representation associated with the one or more applications to the user device via a wireless network; and responsive to detecting user interaction with the application graphical representation, determine two or more media streams based on user viewing position, orientation, and viewing angle, wherein determining the two or more media streams signals the one or more servers to perform heavy-load computational tasks on respective application media content; and stream to the user device the media content for outputting the media content.
2. The system of claim 1 further comprising the user device connected to the one or more servers via a wireless network and configured to receive and execute the one or more applications.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the heavy-load computational tasks comprise pre-processing, by the one or more servers, of the application media content, the pre-processing comprising at least sound and video compression operations.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the heavy-load computational tasks on media content further comprise physics simulations, lighting, shadows simulations, or rendering, or combinations thereof.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the virtual-world entities to which the applications are virtually attached are virtual replicas of real-world objects, the virtual replicas comprising data and models that provide self-computing capabilities and autonomous behavior.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the virtual replicas represent elements connected to the persistent virtual world system and unconnected elements, the connected elements comprising computing devices.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the virtual-world entities to which the applications are virtually attached are fully virtual objects not existing in the real world.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the user device comprises a mobile phone, laptop computer, mobile game console, head-mounted display, smart contact lens, or see-through device.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured for user interactions with the one or more applications in augmented reality, virtual reality, mixed reality, or combinations thereof.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the two or more media streams are further selected based on profile information of a user stored in the memory or obtained through social media networks.
11. A computer-implemented method for enabling location-based activation of applications performed by a server system comprising one or more server computers, the computer-implemented method comprising: providing, in the server system, a persistent virtual world system including a virtual version of a real-world space, the virtual version comprising one or more applications virtually attached to virtual-world entities positioned according to real-world coordinates; receiving a location of one or more user devices; determining whether the one or more user devices have entered an application trigger zone based at least in part on the location of the one or more user devices; providing, upon determining the one or more user devices entering the application trigger zone, a minimum amount of application graphical representation to the one or more user devices; determining, responsive to an indication that the one or more user devices have downloaded the minimum amount of application graphical representation, two or more media streams based on user viewing position, orientation, and viewing angle; performing, responsive to determining the two or more media streams, heavy-load computational tasks on the application media content; and sending rendered media content and instructions to perform lightweight computational tasks thereon to the one or more user devices.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the heavy-load computational tasks comprise pre-processing the application media content, the pre-processing comprising at least sound and video compression operations.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the heavy-load computational tasks further comprise performing one or more of physics simulations, lighting, shadows simulations, or rendering, or combinations thereof.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the virtual-world entities to which the applications are virtually attached are virtual replicas of real-world objects, the virtual replicas comprising data and models that provide self-computing capabilities and autonomous behavior.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the virtual replicas represent elements connected to the persistent virtual world system and unconnected elements, the connected elements comprising computing devices.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the virtual-world entities to which the applications are virtually attached are fully virtual objects not existing in the real world.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the one or more user devices comprise one or more mobile phones, laptop computers, mobile game consoles, head-mounted displays, smart contact lenses, or see-through devices.
18. The method of claim 11, further comprising processing user interactions in an augmented reality, a virtual reality, or a mixed reality, or combinations thereof.
19. The method of claim, wherein the two or more media streams are further selected based on profile information of a user stored in the server system or obtained through social media networks.
20. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer code configured to cause one or more computing devices to perform steps comprising: providing a persistent virtual world system including a virtual version of a real-world space, the virtual version comprising one or more applications virtually attached to virtual-world entities positioned according to real-world coordinates; receiving a location of one or more user devices; determining whether the one or more user devices have entered an application trigger zone based at least in part on the location of the one or more user devices; providing, upon receiving an indication of the one or more user devices entering the application trigger zone, a minimum amount of application graphical representation to the one or more user devices; determining, responsive to an indication that the one or more user devices have downloaded the minimum amount of application graphical representation, two or more media streams based on user viewing position, orientation, and viewing angle; performing, responsive to determining the two or more media streams, heavy-load computational tasks on the application media content; and sending rendered media content and instructions to perform lightweight computational tasks thereon to the one or more user devices.
</claims>
</document>
