<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/904,G06F17/16,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
NATION, ZACHARY A.
WONGSUPHASAWAT, KANIT
SRIDHAR, SRIKRISHNA
FRANKLIN, Aaron B.
PRATAPA, Naga Rama Abhishek
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72832612
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA VISUALIZATION FOR MACHINE LEARNING MODEL PERFORMANCE
</title>

<abstract>
The subject technology receives information associated with a machine learning model. The subject technology determines a set of metrics based at least in part on the information associated with the machine learning model, where the set of metrics corresponds to respective indicators of performance of the machine learning model based on input data from a data set, the set of metrics further including a number of errors produced by the machine learning model when applied to the input data from the data set. Further, the subject technology displays a user interface based at least in part on the set of metrics, where the user interface includes a set of graphical elements, and the set of graphical elements further includes representations of the set of metrics, and representations of the input data from the data set utilized by the machine learning model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving information associated with a machine learning model, wherein the information comprises output data of the machine learning model, and the machine learning model is applied on input data from a data set to generate the output data; determining a set of metrics based at least in part on the information associated with the machine learning model, wherein the set of metrics corresponds to respective indicators of performance of the machine learning model based on the input data from the data set, the set of metrics further including a number of errors produced by the machine learning model when applied to the input data from the data set; and displaying a user interface based at least in part on the set of metrics, wherein the user interface comprises a set of graphical elements, and the set of graphical elements further includes representations of the set of metrics, and representations of the input data from the data set utilized by the machine learning model.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a selection of a particular graphical element of the user interface, the particular graphical element corresponding to a name of a class classified by the machine learning model; and displaying, in response to the selection of the particular graphical element, a second set of graphical elements, the second set of graphical elements including a first graphical element indicating an actual class of a particular input data, a second graphical element indicating a predicted class of the particular input data, a third graphical element indicating a number of incorrect classifications, and a fourth graphical element indicating a set of images associated with the number of incorrect classifications.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving a second selection of the second graphical element indicating the predicted class; and displaying, in response to the second selection of the second graphical element, a second set of images, the second set of images comprising a different version of the set of images associated with the number of incorrect classifications.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the different version of the set of images comprises images with a greater resolution than corresponding resolutions of the set of images.
5. The method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving a particular selection of a particular image from the set of images associated with the number of incorrect classifications; and displaying, in response to the particular selection, a different version of the particular image.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving a particular selection of a particular image from the set of images associated with the number of incorrect classifications; receiving input corresponding to a different label for the particular image; storing information related to the different label for the particular image into a new training data set; and retraining the machine learning model using at least the new training data set.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a selection of a particular graphical element of the user interface, the particular graphical element corresponding for an option for displaying additional metrics from the set of metrics; and displaying, in response to the selection of the particular graphical element, a second set of graphical elements, the second set of graphical elements including additional metrics associated with the machine learning model that are not currently displayed in the user interface.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: receiving a selection of a particular graphical element from the second set of graphical elements, the particular graphical element corresponding to an additional metric of the machine learning model; and displaying, in response to the selection of the particular graphical element, a representation of the additional metric of the machine learning model in the user interface.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of graphical elements are provided for display in a tabular format.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of metrics is based at least in part on a confusion matrix.
11. A system comprising: a processor; a memory device containing instructions, which when executed by the processor cause the processor to: receive information associated with a machine learning model, wherein the information comprises output data of the machine learning model, and the machine learning model is applied on input data from a data set to generate the output data; determine a set of metrics based at least in part on the information associated with the machine learning model, wherein the set of metrics corresponds to respective indicators of performance of the machine learning model based on the input data from the data set, the set of metrics further including a number of errors produced by the machine learning model when applied to the input data from the data set; and display a user interface based at least in part on the set of metrics, wherein the user interface comprises a set of graphical elements, and the set of graphical elements further includes representations of the set of metrics, and representations of the input data from the data set utilized by the machine learning model.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the memory device contains further instructions, which when executed by the processor further cause the processor to: receive a selection of a particular graphical element of the user interface, the particular graphical element corresponding to a name of a class classified by the machine learning model; and display, in response to the selection of the particular graphical element, a second set of graphical elements, the second set of graphical elements including a first graphical element indicating an actual class of a particular input data, a second graphical element indicating a predicted class of the particular input data, a third graphical element indicating a number of incorrect classifications, and a fourth graphical element indicating a set of images associated with the number of incorrect classifications.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the memory device contains further instructions, which when executed by the processor further cause the processor to: receive a second selection of the second graphical element indicating the predicted class; and display, in response to the second selection of the second graphical element, a second set of images, the second set of images comprising a different version of the set of images associated with the number of incorrect classifications.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the different version of the set of images comprises images with a greater resolution than corresponding resolutions of the set of images.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the memory device contains further instructions, which when executed by the processor further cause the processor to: receive a particular selection of a particular image from the set of images associated with the number of incorrect classifications; and display, in response to the particular selection, a different version of the particular image.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the memory device contains further instructions, which when executed by the processor further cause the processor to: receive a particular selection of a particular image from the set of images associated with the number of incorrect classifications; receive input corresponding to a different label for the particular image; store information related to the different label for the particular image into a new training data set; and retrain the machine learning model using at least the new training data set.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the memory device contains further instructions, which when executed by the processor further cause the processor to: receive a selection of a particular graphical element of the user interface, the particular graphical element corresponding for an option for displaying additional metrics from the set of metrics; and display, in response to the selection of the particular graphical element, a second set of graphical elements, the second set of graphical elements including additional metrics associated with the machine learning model that are not currently displayed in the user interface.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the memory device contains further instructions, which when executed by the processor further cause the processor to: receive a selection of a particular graphical element from the second set of graphical elements, the particular graphical element corresponding to an additional metric of the machine learning model; and display, in response to the selection of the particular graphical element, a representation of the additional metric of the machine learning model in the user interface.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the machine learning model comprises an image classifier model and the input data comprises different images.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions, which when executed by a computing device, cause the computing device to perform operations comprising: receiving information associated with a machine learning model, wherein the information comprises output data of the machine learning model, and the machine learning model is applied on input data from a data set to generate the output data; determining a set of metrics based at least in part on the information associated with the machine learning model, wherein the set of metrics corresponds to respective indicators of performance of the machine learning model based on the input data from the data set, the set of metrics further including a number of errors produced by the machine learning model when applied to the input data from the data set; and displaying a user interface based at least in part on the set of metrics, wherein the user interface comprises a set of graphical elements, and the set of graphical elements further includes representations of the set of metrics, and representations of the input data from the data set utilized by the machine learning model.
</claims>
</document>
