<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q20/34,G06Q20/40,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
GREENBERG, JESSICA
VUKICH, ADAM
BUTLER, Taurean
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72749207
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTHORIZING A TRANSACTION FOR A RESTRICTED ITEM BASED ON USER DATA
</title>

<abstract>
A device may receive, from a transaction device, transaction data relating to a transaction event involving a transaction card that stores user data associated with a user. The transaction data may include the user data and a category identifier of a merchant associated with the transaction device. The device may process the category identifier to determine whether the merchant is associated with an item that has a purchase restriction. The device may determine whether the user data of the transaction data satisfies the purchase restriction. The device may transmit a notification to a user device associated with the user requesting that the user indicate whether the transaction event is approved by the user. The device may receive a response to the notification and selectively process the transaction event or reject the transaction event based on the response.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a device and from a transaction terminal, transaction data relating to a transaction event involving a transaction card, wherein the transaction terminal is associated with a merchant, wherein the transaction card electronically stores user data associated with a user of the transaction card, wherein the user data includes at least one of: a date of birth of the user, a residence of the user, or a status of the user, and wherein the transaction data includes the user data and a category identifier of the merchant; processing, by the device and using a machine-learning model, the category identifier to determine whether the merchant is associated with an item that has a purchase restriction, wherein the machine-learning model is to output an indication of whether the merchant is associated with an item that has a purchase restriction based on the category identifier; determining, by the device and based on determining that the merchant is associated with the item, whether the user data of the transaction data satisfies one or more parameters associated with the purchase restriction to allow purchasing of the item; transmitting, by the device and based on determining that the user data does not satisfy the purchase restriction, a first notification to a user device associated with the user, wherein the first notification requests that the user provide an image, of a form of identification of the user, captured by the user device; receiving, by the device and from the user device, a first response to the first notification, the first response including the image; performing, by the device and based on receiving the first response, image processing on the image to determine whether image data satisfies the purchase restriction; transmitting, by the device and to the transaction terminal, a second notification requesting that the merchant provide information verifying that the user satisfies the purchase restriction; receiving, by the device and from the transaction terminal, a second response to the second notification; selectively processing the transaction event or rejecting the transaction event, by the device, based on determining whether the image data satisfies the purchase restriction and based on the second response to prohibit restricted purchases; generating, by the device, a record that associates the transaction event, the purchase restriction, the user data, the first response, and information identifying whether the transaction event was processed or rejected; and storing, by the device, the record.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the purchase restriction relates to one or more of: a minimum age, a residence within a jurisdiction, or a status.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein selectively processing the transaction event or rejecting the transaction event is to prevent an ineligible user from obtaining the item.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: rejecting the transaction event based on the first response from the user not being received within a time period after the first notification is transmitted.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the transaction data further includes an item identifier, wherein processing the category identifier comprises: processing the category identifier and the item identifier of the transaction data to determine whether the merchant is associated with the item that has the purchase restriction.
6. (canceled)
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting a third notification to the transaction terminal, wherein the third notification indicates that the transaction event is awaiting the first response to the first notification.
8. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions comprising: one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive, from a transaction terminal, transaction data relating to a transaction event involving a transaction card, wherein the transaction terminal is associated with a merchant, wherein the transaction card electronically stores user data associated with a user of the transaction card, wherein the user data includes at least one of: a date of birth of the user, a residence of the user, or a status of the user, and wherein the transaction data includes the user data and a category identifier of the merchant; process, using a machine-learning model, the category identifier to determine whether the merchant is associated with an item that has a purchase restriction wherein the machine-learning model is to output an indication of whether the merchant is associated with an item that has a purchase restriction based on the category identifier; determine, based on determining that the merchant is associated with the item, whether the user data of the transaction data satisfies one or more parameters associated with the purchase restriction to allow purchasing of the item; transmit, based on determining that the user data does not satisfy the purchase restriction, a first notification to a user device associated with the user, wherein the first notification requests that the user provide an image, of a form of identification of the user, captured by the user device; receive, from the user device, a first response to the first notification, the first response including the image; perform, based on receiving the first response, image processing on the image to determine whether image data satisfies the purchase restriction; transmit, to the transaction terminal, a second notification requesting that the merchant provide information verifying that the user satisfies the purchase restriction; receive, from the transaction terminal, a second response to the second notification; selectively process the transaction event or reject the transaction event based on determining whether the image data satisfies the purchase restriction and based on the second response to prohibit restricted purchases; generate a record that associates the transaction event, the purchase restriction, the user data, the first response, and information identifying whether the transaction event was processed or rejected; and store the record.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the purchase restriction relates to one or more of: a minimum age, a residence within a jurisdiction, or a status.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to selectively process the transaction event or reject the transaction event, cause the one or more processors to: reject the transaction event based on the image data not satisfying the purchase restriction; and wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: transmit, based on rejecting the transaction event, a message to the transaction terminal indicating that the transaction event is rejected.
11. (canceled)
12. (canceled)
13. (canceled)
14. (canceled)
15. A device, comprising: one or more memories; and one or more processors communicatively coupled to the one or more memories, configured to: receive, from a transaction terminal, transaction data relating to a transaction event involving a transaction card, wherein the transaction terminal is associated with a merchant, wherein the transaction card electronically stores user data associated with a user of the transaction card, wherein the user data includes at least one of: a date of birth of the user, a residence of the user, or a status of the user, and wherein the transaction data includes the user data and a category identifier of the merchant; process, using a machine-learning model, the category identifier to determine whether the merchant is associated with an item that has a purchase restriction, wherein the machine-learning model is to output an indication of whether the merchant is associated with an item that has a purchase restriction based on the category identifier; determine, based on determining that the merchant is associated with the item, whether the user data of the transaction data satisfies one or more parameters associated with the purchase restriction to allow purchasing of the item; selectively transmit, based on whether the user data satisfies the purchase restriction, a first notification to a user device associated with the user requesting that the user provide an image, of a form of identification of the user, captured by the user device; receive, from the user device, a first response to the first notification, the first response including the image; perform, based on receiving the first response, image processing on the image to determine whether image data satisfies the purchase restriction; transmit, to the transaction terminal, a second notification requesting that the merchant provide information verifying that the user satisfies the purchase restriction; receive, from the transaction terminal, a second response to the second notification; selectively process the transaction event or reject the transaction event based on determining whether the image data satisfies the purchase restriction and based on the second response to prohibit restricted purchases; generate a record that associates the transaction event, the purchase restriction, the user data, the first response, and information identifying whether the transaction event was processed or rejected; and store the record.
16. The device of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors, when selectively processing the transaction event or rejecting the transaction event, are to: reject the transaction event based on the second response including information that does not satisfy the purchase restriction; and where the one or more processors are further to: transmit, based on rejecting the transaction event, a message to the transaction terminal indicating that the transaction event is rejected.
17. The device of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors, when selectively processing the transaction event or rejecting the transaction event, are to: reject the transaction event based on the image data not satisfying the purchase restriction or the second response including information that does not satisfy the purchase restriction; and where the one or more processors are further to: transmit, based on rejecting the transaction event, a message to the transaction terminal indicating that the transaction event is rejected.
18. The device of claim 15, wherein the transaction data further includes an item identifier, wherein the one or more processors, when processing the category identifier, are to: process the category identifier and the item identifier of the transaction data to determine whether the merchant is associated with the item that has the purchase restriction.
19. The device of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors, when selectively transmitting the first notification, are to: transmit the first notification based on determining that the user data of the transaction data does not satisfy the purchase restriction.
20. (canceled)
21. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the first notification includes a request for the user to provide the form of identification to the merchant and receive, from the merchant, a verification code.
22. The method of claim 1, wherein the user data further includes information indicating whether the user has been convicted of a felony.
23. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the user data further includes information indicating whether the user has been convicted of a felony.
24. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: utilize a mapping that associates one or more category identifiers to one or more purchase restrictions; and wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to determine whether the user data of the transaction data satisfies the one or more parameters associated with the purchase restriction to allow purchasing of the item, cause the one or more processors to: determine whether the user data of the transaction data satisfies the one or more parameters associated with the purchase restriction based on utilizing the mapping that associates the one or more category identifiers to the one or more purchase restrictions.
25. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 24, wherein the mapping comprises one or more of: a mapping that associates a category identifier for grocery stores with a purchase restriction relating to alcoholic beverages, a mapping that associates a category identifier for liquor stores with a purchase restriction relating to alcoholic beverages, a mapping that associates a category identifier for sporting goods stores with a purchase restriction relating to firearms, a mapping that associates a category identifier for movie theaters with a purchase restriction relating to R-rated movies, a mapping that associates an item identifier for alcoholic beverages to a purchase restriction relating to alcoholic beverages, a mapping that associates an item identifier for fireworks to a purchase restriction relating to fireworks, or a mapping that associates an item identifier for firearms to a purchase restriction relating to firearms.
26. The device of claim 15, wherein the user data further includes information indicating whether the user has been convicted of a felony.
</claims>
</document>
