<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0354,G06F3/038,G06F3/041
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARAN, ON
MISHALOV, VADIM
ZYSKIND, AMIR
GUR, ARIE Y.
MESHI, ADAM BENJAMIN
CHAZANOVICH, FELIX
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67185794
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Detection of pen location relative to an electronic device
</title>

<abstract>
Signals are transmitted from a plurality of regions of an electronic device. Location information is then received from an electronic pen in proximity to the electronic device. The location information is determined by the electronic pen and corresponds to a location of the electronic pen relative to the screen of the electronic device. The location information is determined using one or more of the transmitted signals received by the electronic pen. A display on the screen of the electronic device is controlled based at least in part on the received location information. A more efficient pen operating state is thereby provided that improves the user experience by more accurately and reliably determining the pen location in space.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device comprising: a screen; at least one processor; and at least one memory comprising computer program code, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the electronic device to at least: transmit signals from a plurality of regions of an electronic device; receive location information from an electronic pen in proximity to the electronic device, the location information determined by the electronic pen and corresponding to a location of the electronic pen relative to the screen of the electronic device using one or more of the transmitted signals received by the electronic pen; and control a display on the screen of the electronic device based at least in part on the received location information.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein transmitting signals comprises a time division transmission wherein signals are transmitted from each region of the plurality of regions at different times.
3. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein transmitting signals comprises transmitting the signals from the plurality of regions simultaneously, the signals transmitted from each region having one of a different frequency or amplitude.
4. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the screen comprises a plurality of electrodes and the computer program code is further configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the electronic device to at least drive subsets of electrodes of the plurality of electrodes corresponding to each region of the plurality of regions.
5. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein transmitting signals comprises transmitting uplink signals in response to detection of the electronic pen within a proximity threshold of the screen of the electronic device.
6. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the computer program code is further configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the electronic device to at least use a lookup table to determine the location of the electronic pen relative to the screen of the electronic device based at least on the one or more signals.
7. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the computer program code is further configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the electronic device to at least decode the received one or more signals and perform triangulation based on the received one or more signals to determine the location of the electronic pen relative to the screen of the electronic device.
8. A method to determine a location of an electronic pen, the method comprising: transmitting signals from a plurality of regions of an electronic device; receiving location information from an electronic pen in proximity to the electronic device, the location information determined by the electronic pen and corresponding to a location of the electronic pen relative to a screen of the electronic device using one or more of the transmitted signals received by the electronic pen; and controlling a display on the screen of the electronic device based at least in part on the received location information.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein transmitting signals comprises a time division transmission wherein signals are transmitted from each of region of the plurality of regions at different times.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein transmitting signals comprises transmitting the signals from the plurality or regions simultaneously, the signals transmitted from each region having one of a different frequency or amplitude.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the electronic device comprises a screen having a plurality of electrodes and further comprising driving subsets of electrodes of the plurality of electrodes corresponding to each region of the plurality of regions.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein transmitting signals comprises transmitting uplink signals in response to detection of the electronic pen within a proximity threshold of the screen of the electronic device.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising using a lookup table to determine the location of the electronic pen relative to the screen of the electronic device based at least on the one or more signals.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising decoding the received one or more signals and performing triangulation based on the received one or more signals to determine the location of the electronic pen relative to the screen of the electronic device.
15. One or more computer storage media having computer-executable instructions that, upon execution by a processor, cause the processor to at least: transmit signals from a plurality of regions of an electronic device; receive location information from an electronic pen in proximity to the electronic device, the location information determined by the electronic pen and corresponding to a location of the electronic pen relative to a screen of the electronic device using one or more of the transmitted signals received by the electronic pen; and control a display on the screen of the electronic device based at least in part on the received location information.
16. The one or more computer storage media of claim 15, wherein transmitting signals comprises a time division transmission wherein signals are transmitted from each of region of the plurality of regions at different times.
17. The one or more computer storage media of claim 15, wherein transmitting signals comprises transmitting the signals from the plurality or regions simultaneously, the signals transmitted from each region having one of a different frequency or amplitude.
18. The one or more computer storage media of claim 15, wherein the electronic device comprises a screen having a plurality of electrodes and further comprising driving subsets of electrodes of the plurality of electrodes corresponding to each region of the plurality of regions.
19. The one or more computer storage media of claim 15, wherein transmitting signals comprises transmitting uplink signals in response to detection of the electronic pen within a proximity threshold of the screen of the electronic device.
20. The one or more computer storage media of claim 15 having computer-executable instructions that, upon execution by a processor, further cause the processor to at least use a lookup table to determine the location of the electronic pen relative to the screen of the electronic device based at least on the one or more signals or perform triangulation to determine the location of the electronic pen relative to the screen of the electronic device.
</claims>
</document>
