<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W60/00,G06N20/00,G07C5/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TESLA
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAILEY, DANIEL WILLIAM
GORTI, ATCHYUTH
GLASCO, DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66995046
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTONOMOUS DRIVING SYSTEM COMPONENT FAULT PREDICTION
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicular autonomous driving system includes a fault prediction unit, including a processor and memory, configured to predict a potential future fault condition by: monitoring performance data associated with the plurality of autonomous driving components; comparing the performance data associated with the plurality of autonomous driving components to a plurality of performance thresholds; and determining the potential future fault condition for one of the plurality of autonomous driving components, when the performance data associated with the one of the plurality of autonomous driving components compares unfavorably to a corresponding one of the plurality of performance thresholds.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicular autonomous driving system comprising: a plurality of autonomous driving components including: a plurality of autonomous driving units that control motion of a vehicle; an autonomous driving controller configured to control the plurality of autonomous driving units of the vehicle; a plurality of autonomous driving sensors coupled to the autonomous driving controller and configured to collect autonomous driving data and transmit the autonomous driving data to the autonomous driving controller; a fault prediction unit, including a processor and memory, configured to predict a potential future fault condition by: monitoring performance data associated with the plurality of autonomous driving components; comparing the performance data associated with the plurality of autonomous driving components to a plurality of performance thresholds; and determining the potential future fault condition for one of the plurality of autonomous driving components, when the performance data associated with the one of the plurality of autonomous driving components compares unfavorably to a corresponding one of the plurality of performance thresholds.
2. The vehicular autonomous driving system of claim 1, wherein the performance data associated with at least one of the plurality of autonomous driving components includes component characteristic data measured over time and wherein comparing the performance data associated with the at least one of the plurality of autonomous driving components to a corresponding at least one of the plurality of performance thresholds includes determining a deviation between the component characteristic data measured over time and a corresponding nominal characteristic data and comparing the deviation between the component characteristic data measured over time and the corresponding nominal characteristic data to the corresponding at least one of the plurality of performance thresholds.
3. The vehicular autonomous driving system of claim 2, wherein the nominal characteristic data is determined by the fault prediction unit via machine learning.
4. The vehicular autonomous driving system of claim 2, wherein the corresponding at least one of the plurality of performance thresholds is set based on an amount of likelihood that an amount of deviation between the component characteristic data measured over time and the corresponding nominal characteristic data indicates a future fault in the at least one of the plurality of autonomous driving components.
5. The vehicular autonomous driving system of claim 4, wherein the amount of likelihood is set based on a relative importance of the at least one of the plurality of autonomous driving components to autonomous driving.
6. The vehicular autonomous driving system of claim 4, wherein the amount of likelihood is set to a first likelihood for a first of the plurality of autonomous driving components to autonomous driving of high relative importance to autonomous driving and wherein the amount of likelihood is set to a second likelihood for a second of the plurality of autonomous driving components of low relative importance to autonomous driving and wherein the first likelihood is less than the second likelihood.
7. The vehicular autonomous driving system of claim 2, wherein the component characteristic data includes a hardware-specific characteristic.
8. The vehicular autonomous driving system of claim 2, wherein the component characteristic data includes a software-specific characteristic.
9. The vehicular autonomous driving system of claim 1, wherein an indication of the potential future fault condition is transmitted to a diagnostic unit via a wireless communication link or via a charging port of the vehicle.
10. The vehicular autonomous driving system of claim 1, wherein plurality of autonomous driving components further include components of at least one vehicle accessory.
11. A method comprising: monitoring performance data associated with a plurality of autonomous driving components of an autonomous vehicle; comparing the performance data associated with the plurality of autonomous driving components to a plurality of performance thresholds; and determining a potential future fault condition for one of the plurality of autonomous driving components, when the performance data associated with the one of the plurality of autonomous driving components compares unfavorably to a corresponding one of the plurality of performance thresholds.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the performance data associated with at least one of the plurality of autonomous driving components includes component characteristic data measured over time and wherein comparing the performance data associated with the at least one of the plurality of autonomous driving components to a corresponding at least one of the plurality of performance thresholds includes determining a deviation between the component characteristic data measured over time and a corresponding nominal characteristic data and comparing the deviation between the component characteristic data measured over time and the corresponding nominal characteristic data to the corresponding at least one of the plurality of performance thresholds.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the nominal characteristic data is determined via machine learning.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the corresponding at least one of the plurality of performance thresholds is set based on an amount of likelihood that an amount of deviation between the component characteristic data measured over time and the corresponding nominal characteristic data indicates a future fault in the at least one of the plurality of autonomous driving components.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the amount of likelihood is set based on a relative importance of the at least one of the plurality of autonomous driving components to autonomous driving.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the amount of likelihood is set to a first likelihood for a first of the plurality of autonomous driving components to autonomous driving of high relative importance to autonomous driving and wherein the amount of likelihood is set to a second likelihood for a second of the plurality of autonomous driving components of low relative importance to autonomous driving and wherein the first likelihood is less than the second likelihood.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein the component characteristic data includes a hardware-specific characteristic.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the component characteristic data includes a software-specific characteristic.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein an indication of the potential future fault condition is transmitted to a diagnostic unit via a wireless communication link or via a charging port of the autonomous vehicle.
20. Non-transitory computer storage media storing instructions that when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations: monitoring performance data associated with a plurality of autonomous driving components; comparing the performance data associated with the plurality of autonomous driving components to a plurality of performance thresholds; and determining a potential future fault condition for one of the plurality of autonomous driving components, when the performance data associated with the one of the plurality of autonomous driving components compares unfavorably to a corresponding one of the plurality of performance thresholds.
21. 21.-60. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
