<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/6886,G16B20/50,G16B40/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VISIONGATE
</assignee>

<inventors>
NELSON, ALAN, C.
Meyer, Michael Meyer G.
Kelbauskas, Laimonis
Sussman, Daniel J.
Mastrangelo, Randall
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67144273
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MORPHOMETRIC GENOTYPING OF CELLS USING OPTICAL TOMOGRAPHY FOR DETECTING TUMOR MUTATIONAL BURDEN
</title>

<abstract>
A method to develop one or more morphometric classifiers to identify a tumor mutation burden (TMB). The method provides a non-invasive method of characterizing TMB that is responsive to a tumor in its early stages of development and irrespective of the tumor size. The method allows targeting cancer therapy to the specific characteristics of the cancer that the patient may have, allowing more efficient cancer management with far fewer side effects.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for developing one or more morphometric classifiers to identify a tumor mutation burden (TMB), the method comprising: deriving selected clones from transduced cells; analyzing the selected clones for MLH1 expression to screen for those with levels equivalent to a parental cell line; expanding the selected clones in culture; harvesting the selected clones; determining the TMB level for the harvested clones; analyzing the selected clones on a 3D microscopy optical tomography system; and comparing the selected clones to a set of control cell lines.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the set of control cell lines comprise parental NCI-H23 and clones expressing the scrambled shRNA.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the act of analyzing generates a plurality of morphometric biosignatures for each cell.
4. The method of claim 3 further comprising using low and high TMB as a ground truth for developing a cell classifier for each cell in an isogenic cell line and determining the area of ROC for each cell classifier.
5. The method of claim 4 further comprising defining a score that matches the ground truth for each cell in the isogenic cell line.
6. The method of claim 2 further comprising producing a score that closely matches a ground truth.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein analyzing the selected clones comprises using an Adaptively boosted logistic regression algorithm to define a set of projection axes used through the logic function to produce a score ranging from 0 to 1.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein the Adaptively boosted logistic regression algorithm is iterated with successive trials using by weighting each observation by the differential between ground truth and the current score to adaptively converge on a solution that gradually a wider set of the cellular characteristics into the solution.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein analyzing the selected clones comprises using a Random Forest algorithm to produce classifier using a non-parametric assumption for the feature distribution.
10. The method of claim 9 further comprising assessing classifier discrimination by pruning a potential set of feature trees to optimize the discriminant.
11. The method of claim 1 further comprising using the area under an ROC curve aROC to judge classifier efficacy wherein area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, or aROC, is calculated by computing the integral of the ROC curve, which represents the overall performance of a binary classifier output in terms of classification sensitivity and specificity.
12. The method of claim 1 further comprising establishing thresholds to use with the classifier score to create a binary output that correlates with the ground TBM with high accuracy.
13. The method of claim 1 further comprising producing a numeric score representing the probability for a cell to belong to the target class.
14. The method of claim 13 further comprising separating target from non-target cells by further making the scores binary by applying a threshold to the scores distribution.
15. The method of claim 11 wherein the threshold value will be determined to provide an accuracy of 0.95 or higher for separating cells with low TMB from those with high TMB.
16. The method of claim 15 further comprising determining TMB data from genomic profiling performed using either whole exome sequencing or targeted exome sequencing utilizing NGS or target gene panels.
17. A method for training one or more morphometric classifiers to identify a tumor mutation burden (TMB), the method comprising: deriving selected clones from transduced cells; analyzing the selected clones for MLH1 expression to screen for those with levels equivalent to a parental cell line; expanding the selected clones in culture; harvesting the selected clones; determining the TMB level; analyzing the selected clones on a 3D microscopy optical tomography system; generating a plurality of morphometric biosignatures for each selected clone; using an Adaptively boosted logistic regression algorithm to define a set of projection axes used through the logic function to produce a score ranging from 0 to 1, or a Random Forest algorithm to produce classifier using a non-parametric assumption for the feature distribution; and comparing the selected clones to a set of control cell lines.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein the set of control cell lines comprise parental NCI-H23 and clones expressing the scrambled shRNA.
19. The method of claim 17 wherein the act of analyzing generates a plurality of morphometric biosignatures for each cell.
20. The method of claim 17 further comprising using low and high TMB as a ground truth for developing a cell classifier for each cell in an isogenic cell line and determining the area of ROC for each cell classifier.
21. The method of claim 17 further comprising using the area under an ROC curve aROC to judge classifier efficacy wherein area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, or aROC, is calculated by computing the integral of the ROC curve, which represents the overall performance of a binary classifier output in terms of classification sensitivity and specificity.
22. The method of claim 17 further comprising establishing thresholds to use with the classifier score to create a binary output that correlates with the ground TBM with high accuracy.
23. The method of claim 17 further comprising producing a numeric score representing the probability for a cell to belong to the target class.
24. The method of claim 17 further comprising separating target from non-target cells by further making the scores binary by applying a threshold to the scores distribution.
25. A method of treating a malignancy in a human subject using immunotherapy comprising: analyzing 3D images of cells based on pseudo-projections obtained from a specimen obtained from a subject; operating a biological specimen classifier to identify cells from the specimen as normal or abnormal; determining a TMB score from for each of the abnormal cells; applying a predetermined threshold to the TMB score; when cancer is found, then administering surgical procedures to remove the cancer lesion; when the TMB score exceeds the predetermined threshold, then triaging the subject as a candidate for conducting immunotherapy by administering an immunomodulating agent to a human subject over a predetermined time period to assist the immune system of the human subject in eradicating cancerous cells.
26. The method of claim 25 wherein the immunomodulating agent comprises a drug selected from the group consisting of a chimeric immunoreceptor, a prostacyclin analog, iloprost, a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) for T-cells, Vorinostat, HDAC inhibitors, cholecalciferol, calcitriol and combinations thereof.
</claims>
</document>
