<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q40/08,G06Q50/22,G16H10/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EXPRESS SCRIPTS STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEAN, KAREN
KELLEY, BRADLEY
LOONEY, MICHAEL
SHANNON, BENJAMIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71993849
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PREDICTIVE DATA ANALYTICS
</title>

<abstract>
A system includes a processor and memory providing instructions for execution by the processor. The instructions include, responsive to a request from a user device indicating a group type and a time frame, selecting a set of users based on the group type. The instructions include retrieving the user data and historical data from a database and identifying a set of new users during the time frame. The instructions include adding the set of new users to the set of users and generating synthetic historical data for the set of users. The instructions include, based on the synthetic historical data for each user, computing a likelihood of discontinuation of a drugs and computing a likelihood of initiation of a drug. The instructions include estimating, for the group type, an aggregated output based on the likelihoods of initiation and discontinuation. The instructions include displaying the aggregated output on the user device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising: at least one processor and a memory coupled to the at least one processor, wherein the memory stores: a database including, for a plurality of users, user data and historical data and instructions for execution by the at least one processor and wherein the instructions include, in response to receiving a request from a user device indicating a group type and a time frame: selecting a set of users from the plurality of users based on the group type; retrieving, for the plurality of users, user data and historical data; identifying a set of new users of the plurality of users during the time frame based on the retrieved user data and historical data; adding the set of new users to the set of users; generating synthetic historical data for users of the set of users; for users of the set of users: computing a likelihood of discontinuation of one or more drugs based on the corresponding synthetic historical data and computing a likelihood of initiation of at least one drug based on the corresponding synthetic historical data; estimating, for the group type, an aggregated output based on the likelihood of initiation of the at least one drug and the likelihood of discontinuation of one or more drugs of the users of the set of users; and displaying the aggregated output on a user interface of the user device.
2. The computer system of claim 1 wherein the instructions include: predicting a likelihood of new users based on users of the plurality of users matching the group type during the time frame using the retrieved user data and historical data and identifying the set of new users of the plurality of users during the time frame based on the likelihood of new users.
3. The computer system of claim 1 wherein the instructions include: for each user of the set of users, in response to a correlation between the at least one drug and a second drug, computing a likelihood of a second initiation of the second drug based on the corresponding synthetic historical data and estimating, for the group type, the aggregated output based on the likelihood of the second initiation.
4. The computer system of claim 3 wherein the instructions include determining the correlation between the at least one drug and the second drug for a selected user of the set of users by: identifying, based on the historical data of the plurality of users, a first set of users of the plurality of users prescribed the at least one drug; determining a grouping of the selected user and the first set of users based on user data; and in response to the selected user and a first user of the first set of users being in a matching grouping, determining the at least one drug correlates to the second drug for the selected user.
5. The computer system of claim 4 wherein the grouping is performed based on a specific therapy class (STC).
6. The computer system of claim 1 wherein the group type corresponds to an enrollment criterion including at least one of: (i) an employer and (ii) an age range.
7. The computer system of claim 1 wherein: the database stores baseline data, the baseline data includes a likelihood that a user will enroll or disenroll from a corresponding group type, and the instructions include identifying the set of new users of the set of users based on the baseline data.
8. The computer system of claim 7 wherein the instructions include: identifying a disenrolled set of users of the set of users from the group type during the time frame based on the user data, the historical data, and the baseline data and removing the disenrolled set of users from the set of users.
9. The computer system of claim 8 wherein identifying the disenrolled set of users includes predicting a likelihood of disenrollment for the users of the set of users corresponding to the group type using a logistic regression function during the time frame based on the user data and the historical data.
10. The computer system of claim 1 wherein: the request identifies the set of users and the set of users includes at least one of: (i) an entire population of users corresponding to the group type, (ii) a targeted population of users corresponding to the group type, and (iii) a random or pseudorandom subset of users corresponding to the group type.
11. A computerized method comprising: maintaining a database including, for a plurality of users, user data and historical data and in response to receiving a request from a user device indicating a group type and a time frame: selecting a set of users from the plurality of users based on the group type; retrieving, for the plurality of users, user data and historical data; identifying a set of new users of the plurality of users during the time frame based on the retrieved user data and historical data; adding the set of new users to the set of users; generating synthetic historical data for users of the set of users; for users of the set of users: computing a likelihood of discontinuation of one or more drugs based on the corresponding synthetic historical data and computing a likelihood of initiation of at least one drug based on the corresponding synthetic historical data; estimating, for the group type, an aggregated output based on the likelihood of initiation of the at least one drug and the likelihood of discontinuation of one or more drugs of the users of the set of users; and displaying the aggregated output on a user interface of the user device.
12. The method of claim 11 further comprising: predicting a likelihood of new users based on users of the plurality of users matching the group type during the time frame using the retrieved user data and historical data and identifying the set of new users of the plurality of users during the time frame based on the likelihood of new users.
13. The method of claim 11 further comprising: for each user of the set of users, in response to a correlation between the at least one drug and a second drug, computing a likelihood of a second initiation of the second drug based on the corresponding synthetic historical data and estimating, for the group type, the aggregated output based on the likelihood of the second initiation.
14. The method of claim 13 further comprising determining the correlation between the at least one drug and the second drug for a selected user of the set of users by: identifying, based on the historical data of the plurality of users, a first set of users of the plurality of users prescribed the at least one drug; determining a grouping of the selected user and the first set of users based on user data; and in response to the selected user and a first user of the first set of users being in a matching grouping, determining the at least one drug correlates to the second drug for the selected user.
15. The method of claim 11 wherein the group type corresponds to an enrollment criterion including at least one of: (i) an employer and (ii) an age range.
16. The method of claim 11 wherein: the database stores baseline data, the baseline data includes a likelihood that a user will enroll or disenroll from a corresponding group type, and the method further comprises identifying the set of new users of the set of users based on the baseline data.
17. The method of claim 16 further comprising: identifying a disenrolled set of users of the set of users from the group type during the time frame based on the user data, the historical data, and the baseline data and removing the disenrolled set of users from the set of users.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein identifying the disenrolled set of users includes predicting a likelihood of disenrollment for the users of the set of users corresponding to the group type using a logistic regression function during the time frame based on the user data and the historical data.
19. The method of claim 11 wherein: the request identifies the set of users and the set of users includes at least one of: (i) an entire population of users corresponding to the group type, (ii) a targeted population of users corresponding to the group type, and (iii) a random or pseudorandom subset of users corresponding to the group type.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing processor-executable instructions, the instructions comprising: maintaining a database including, for a plurality of users, user data and historical data and in response to receiving a request from a user device indicating a group type and a time frame: selecting a set of users from the plurality of users based on the group type; retrieving, for the plurality of users, user data and historical data; identifying a set of new users of the plurality of users during the time frame based on the retrieved user data and historical data; adding the set of new users to the set of users; generating synthetic historical data for users of the set of users; for users of the set of users: computing a likelihood of discontinuation of one or more drugs based on the corresponding synthetic historical data and computing a likelihood of initiation of at least one drug based on the corresponding synthetic historical data; estimating, for the group type, an aggregated output based on the likelihood of initiation of the at least one drug and the likelihood of discontinuation of one or more drugs of the users of the set of users; and displaying the aggregated output on a user interface of the user device.
</claims>
</document>
