<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/06,G06F9/455,G06F9/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING BAIDU NETCOM SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG YU
CHAI, WEN
XIE, YONGJI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67788566
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method, Apparatus, Device and Medium for Processing Data
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method, apparatus, device, and computer readable storage medium for processing data, and relate to the field of cloud computing. The method for processing data includes receiving a request for storing a data block from a virtual storage of a virtual machine into a virtual disk of the virtual machine, the request indicating a virtual storage address for storing the data block in the virtual storage and a virtual disk address for storing the data block in the virtual disk. The method further includes determining a physical storage address for storing the data block within a physical storage associated with the virtual machine based on the virtual storage address. The method further includes associatively storing the virtual disk address and the physical storage address.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for processing data, comprising: receiving a request for storing a data block from a virtual storage of a virtual machine into a virtual disk of the virtual machine, the request indicating a virtual storage address for storing the data block in the virtual storage and a virtual disk address for storing the data block in the virtual disk; determining a physical storage address for storing the data block within a physical storage associated with the virtual machine based on the virtual storage address; and associatively storing the virtual disk address and the physical storage address.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: determining, based on the virtual disk address, whether a first physical storage block corresponding to a virtual disk storage block for storing the data block in the virtual disk is included in the physical storage; and releasing the first physical storage block, in response to the first physical storage block being included in the physical storage.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: allocating a second physical storage block for the virtual machine storage in the physical storage; and associatively storing an address of the allocated second physical storage block and the virtual storage address.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: sending a response for the request to the virtual machine, to indicate the data block being stored into the virtual disk.
5. A method for processing data, comprising: receiving a request for storing a data block from a virtual disk of a virtual machine into a virtual storage of the virtual machine, the request indicating a virtual storage address for storing the data block in a virtual machine storage and a virtual disk address for storing the data block in the virtual disk; determining a physical storage address for storing the data block within a physical storage associated with the virtual machine based on the virtual disk address; and associatively storing the virtual storage address and the physical storage address.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the determining a physical storage address for storing the data block within a physical storage associated with the virtual machine comprises: determining whether the physical storage address for storing the data block is within the physical storage associated with the virtual machine based on the virtual disk address; allocating a first physical storage block from the physical storage, in response to no physical storage address for storing the data block within the physical storage associated with the virtual machine; storing the data block from a physical disk associated with the virtual disk into the first physical storage block; and determining an address of the first physical block for use as the physical storage address.
7. The method according to claim 5, wherein the method further comprises: determining a second physical storage block that is in the physical storage and corresponds to a storage block of the virtual storage for storing the data block in the virtual storage based on the virtual storage address; and releasing the second physical storage block.
8. The method according to claim 5, wherein the method further comprises: sending a response for the request to the virtual machine, to indicate the data block being stored into the virtual storage.
9. An apparatus for processing data, comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing instructions, wherein the instructions when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving a request for storing a data block from a virtual storage of a virtual machine into a virtual disk of the virtual machine, the request indicating a virtual storage address for storing the data block in the virtual storage and a virtual disk address for storing the data block in the virtual disk; determining a physical storage address for storing the data block within a physical storage associated with the virtual machine based on the virtual storage address; and associatively storing the virtual disk address and the physical storage address.
10. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: determining based on the virtual disk address whether a first physical storage block corresponding to a virtual disk storage block for storing the data block in the virtual disk is included in the physical storage; and releasing the first physical storage block, in response to the first physical storage block being included in the physical storage.
11. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: allocating a second physical storage block for the virtual machine storage in the physical storage; and associatively storing an address of the allocated second physical storage block and the virtual storage address.
12. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: sending a response for the request to the virtual machine, to indicate the data block being stored into the virtual disk.
13. An apparatus for processing data, comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing instructions, wherein the instructions when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations, the operations including the method according to claim 1.
14. The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the determining a physical storage address for storing the data block within a physical storage associated with the virtual machine comprises: determining whether the physical storage address for storing the data block is within the physical storage associated with the virtual machine based on the virtual disk address; allocating a first physical storage block from the physical storage, in response to no physical storage address for storing the data block within the physical storage associated with the virtual machine; storing the data block from a physical disk associated with the virtual disk into the first physical storage block; and determining an address of the first physical block for use as the physical storage address.
15. The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a second physical storage block that is in the physical storage and corresponds to a storage block of the virtual storage for storing the data block in the virtual storage based on the virtual storage address; and a second releasing module configured to release the second physical storage block.
16. The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: sending a response for the request to the virtual machine, to indicate the data block being stored into the virtual storage.
17. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium, storing a computer program thereon, wherein the program, when executed by a processor, implements the method according to claim 1.
18. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium, storing a computer program thereon, wherein the program, when executed by a processor, implements the method according to claim 5.
</claims>
</document>
