<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06F16/9032,G10L15/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DISCOURSE.AI
EISENZOPF, JONATHAN E.
</assignee>

<inventors>
EISENZOPF, JONATHAN E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70849301
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for a computer user interface for exploring conversational flow with selectable details
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method implemented on a computing device for visualizing, exploring and examining various levels of supporting information details, by the computer accessing a corpus having a plurality of digital weighted conversation models of text-based interlocutory conversations, including annotations, paths, and weights; selecting a plurality of the conversations according to at least one annotation value at least one weight threshold; and generating a graphical user interface using the selected plurality of text-based interlocutory conversations, in which interlocutor Goals are depicted starting points in a flow-graph, interlocutor Turns are depicted as intermittent points in the flow-graph, and flow pipes are depicted between each interlocutor Goal and each Turn, to illustrate one or more text-based interlocutory conversations which traversed a flow from each goal to each Turn, in which each flow pipe is rendered with a width relative to other flow pipes in the flow graph according the weights.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented on a computing device for visualizing, exploring and examining various levels of supporting information details, the method comprising: accessing, by a computer processor, a corpus having a plurality of digital weighted conversation models of text-based interlocutory conversations, wherein each digital weighted conversation model contains annotations and paths, and wherein each path in each digital weighted conversation model is associated with a weight; selecting, by a computer processor, a plurality of the text-based interlocutory conversations which meet at least one annotation value and in which at least one path meets at least one weight threshold according to the plurality of digital weighted conversation models; and generating, by a computer processor, a graphical user interface using the selected plurality of text-based interlocutory conversations, in which: one or more interlocutor Goals are depicted as one or more starting points in a flow-graph; one or more interlocutor Turns are depicted as intermittent points in the flow-graph; and one or more flow pipes are depicted between each interlocutor Goal and each Turn to illustrate one or more text-based interlocutory conversations which traversed a flow from each goal to each Turn; wherein each flow pipe is rendered with a width relative to other flow pipes in the flow graph according to each associated weight.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the generating of the graphical user interface further comprises generating a filters and criteria portion through which user changes to the at least one weight threshold may be received.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein, responsive to receiving user changes via the filters and criteria portion, the steps of selecting and generating are performed again according to the received user changes.
4. The method of claim 2 wherein the filters and criteria portion further comprises one or more filters selected from the group consisting of user-selectable conversation goals within the corpus, user-selectable conversation topics within the corpus, user-selectable conversation turns within the corpus, user-selectable keywords within the corpus, user-selectable annotation level within the corpus, user-selectable command to hide turns within the flow-graph, user-selectable command to highlight dominant paths within the flow-graph, user-selectable maximum number paths to depict within the flow-graph, user-selectable maximum number conversations to depict within the flow-graph, user-selectable maximum number goals to depict within the flow-graph, and a user-selectable filter pills display enablement control.
5. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the flow pipes further comprise one or more flow pipes depicted between two Turns to illustrate one or more text-based interlocutory conversations which traversed a flow from one Turn to another Turn, and wherein each flow pipe between two Turns is rendered with a width relative to other flow pipes in the flow graph according to each associated weight.
6. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the generating the graphical user interface further comprises: providing associated with the graphical user interface a first-level user-selectable control to display a conversations drill-down dialog; responsive to the receipt of the first-level user-selectable control, generating and displaying, associated with the graphical interface, a list of conversations contained within the selected conversations which are presently depicted within the flow-graph.
7. The method as set forth in claim 6 wherein the generating the graphical user interface further comprises: providing associated with the graphical user interface a second-level user-selectable control to display a conversations details dialog; responsive to the receipt of the second-level user-selectable control, generating and displaying, associated with the graphical interface, a plurality of details of one or more conversations selected by a user within the list of conversations.
8. The method as set forth in claim 6 wherein the conversations drill-down dialog comprises a drawer-style dialog.
9. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the generating the graphical user interface further comprises: providing associated with the graphical user interface a first-level user-selectable control to display a Goals drill-down dialog; responsive to the receipt of the first-level user-selectable control, generating and displaying, associated with the graphical interface, a summary of Goals contained within the selected conversations which are presently depicted within the flow-graph.
10. The method as set forth in claim 9 wherein the generating the graphical user interface further comprises: providing associated with the graphical user interface a second-level user-selectable control to display a Goals details dialog; responsive to the receipt of the second-level user-selectable control, generating and displaying, associated with the graphical interface, a plurality of details of any actual occurrences of conversations during which an interlocutor stated at least one user-selected Goal as the interlocutor's goal of an associated conversation.
11. The method as set forth in claim 9 wherein the Goals drill-down dialog comprises a drawer-style dialog.
12. A computer program product for visualizing, exploring and examining various levels of supporting information details, comprising: one or more tangible, computer readable memories which are not propagating signals per se; and program instructions embodied by the one or more tangible, computer readable memories for causing one or more computer processors to, when executed: access a corpus in computer memory having a plurality of digital weighted conversation models of text-based interlocutory conversations, wherein each digital weighted conversation model contains annotations and paths, and wherein each path in each digital weighted conversation model is associated with a weight; select a plurality of the text-based interlocutory conversations which meet at least one annotation value and in which at least one path meets at least one weight threshold according to the plurality of digital weighted conversation models; and generate a graphical user interface using the selected plurality of text-based interlocutory conversations, in which: one or more interlocutor Goals are depicted as one or more starting points in a flow-graph; one or more interlocutor Turns are depicted as intermittent points in the flow-graph; and one or more flow pipes are depicted between each interlocutor Goal and each Turn to illustrate one or more text-based interlocutory conversations which traversed a flow from each goal to each Turn; wherein each flow pipe is rendered with a width relative to other flow pipes in the flow graph according to each associated weight.
13. The computer program product of claim 12 wherein the program instructions for generating the graphical user interface further comprise program instructions for generating a filters and criteria portion through which user changes to the at least one weight threshold may be received.
14. The computer program product of claim 13 wherein, responsive to receiving user changes via the filters and criteria portion, the selecting and generating are performed again according to the received user changes.
15. The computer program product of claim 13 wherein the filters and criteria portion further comprises one or more filters selected from the group consisting of user-selectable conversation goals within the corpus, user-selectable conversation topics within the corpus, user-selectable conversation turns within the corpus, user-selectable keywords within the corpus, user-selectable annotation level within the corpus, user-selectable command to hide turns within the flow-graph, user-selectable command to highlight dominant paths within the flow-graph, user-selectable maximum number paths to depict within the flow-graph, user-selectable maximum number conversations to depict within the flow-graph, user-selectable maximum number goals to depict within the flow-graph, and a user-selectable filter pills display enablement control.
16. The computer program product of claim 12 wherein the flow pipes further comprise one or more flow pipes depicted between two Turns to illustrate one or more text-based interlocutory conversations which traversed a flow from one Turn to another Turn, and wherein each flow pipe between two Turns is rendered with a width relative to other flow pipes in the flow graph according to each associated weight.
17. The computer program product of claim 12 wherein the program instructions for generating the graphical user interface further comprise program instructions to: provide, associated with the graphical user interface, a first-level user-selectable control to display a conversations drill-down dialog; responsive to the receipt of the first-level user-selectable control, generate and display, associated with the graphical interface, a list of conversations contained within the selected conversations which are presently depicted within the flow-graph.
18. The computer program product of claim 17 wherein the program instructions for generating the graphical user interface further comprise program instructions to: provide, associated with the graphical user interface, a second-level user-selectable control to display a conversations details dialog; responsive to the receipt of the second-level user-selectable control, generate and display, associated with the graphical interface, a plurality of details of one or more conversations selected by a user within the list of conversations.
19. The computer program product of claim 18 wherein the conversations drill-down dialog comprises a drawer-style dialog.
20. The computer program product of claim 12 wherein the program instructions for generating the graphical user interface further comprise program instructions to: provide, associated with the graphical user interface, a first-level user-selectable control to display a Goals drill-down dialog; responsive to the receipt of the first-level user-selectable control, generate and display, associated with the graphical interface, a summary of Goals contained within the selected conversations which are presently depicted within the flow-graph.
21. The computer program product of claim 20 wherein the program instructions for generating the graphical user interface further comprise program instructions to: provide, associated with the graphical user interface, a second-level user-selectable control to display a Goals details dialog; responsive to the receipt of the second-level user-selectable control, generate and display, associated with the graphical interface, a plurality of details of any actual occurrences of conversations during which an interlocutor stated at least one user-selected Goal as the interlocutor's goal of an associated conversation.
22. The computer program product of claim 21 wherein the Goals drill-down dialog comprises a drawer-style dialog.
23. A system for visualizing, exploring and examining various levels of supporting information details, comprising: one or more computer processors for executing program instructions; one or more tangible, computer readable memories which are not propagating signals per se, in communication with the one or more computer processors; and program instructions embodied by the one or more tangible, computer readable memories for causing one or more computer processors to, when executed by the one or more computer processors: access a corpus in computer memory having a plurality of digital weighted conversation models of text-based interlocutory conversations, wherein each digital weighted conversation model contains annotations and paths, and wherein each path in each digital weighted conversation model is associated with a weight; select a plurality of the text-based interlocutory conversations which meet at least one annotation value and in which at least one path meets at least one weight threshold according to the plurality of digital weighted conversation models; and generate a graphical user interface using the selected plurality of text-based interlocutory conversations, in which: one or more interlocutor Goals are depicted as one or more starting points in a flow-graph; one or more interlocutor Turns are depicted as intermittent points in the flow-graph; and one or more flow pipes are depicted between each interlocutor Goal and each Turn to illustrate one or more text-based interlocutory conversations which traversed a flow from each goal to each Turn; wherein each flow pipe is rendered with a width relative to other flow pipes in the flow graph according to each associated weight.
24. The system of claim 23 wherein the program instructions for generating the graphical user interface further comprise program instructions for generating a filters and criteria portion through which user changes to the at least one weight threshold may be received.
25. The system of claim 24 wherein, responsive to receiving user changes via the filters and criteria portion, the selecting and generating are performed again according to the received user changes.
26. The system of claim 24 wherein the filters and criteria portion further comprises one or more filters selected from the group consisting of user-selectable conversation goals within the corpus, user-selectable conversation topics within the corpus, user-selectable conversation turns within the corpus, user-selectable keywords within the corpus, user-selectable annotation level within the corpus, user-selectable command to hide turns within the flow-graph, user-selectable command to highlight dominant paths within the flow-graph, user-selectable maximum number paths to depict within the flow-graph, user-selectable maximum number conversations to depict within the flow-graph, user-selectable maximum number goals to depict within the flow-graph, and a user-selectable filter pills display enablement control.
27. The computer program product of claim 23 wherein the flow pipes further comprise one or more flow pipes depicted between two Turns to illustrate one or more text-based interlocutory conversations which traversed a flow from one Turn to another Turn, and wherein each flow pipe between two Turns is rendered with a width relative to other flow pipes in the flow graph according to each associated weight.
28. The system of claim 23 wherein the program instructions for generating the graphical user interface further comprise program instructions to: provide, associated with the graphical user interface, a first-level user-selectable control to display a conversations drill-down dialog; responsive to the receipt of the first-level user-selectable control, generate and display, associated with the graphical interface, a list of conversations contained within the selected conversations which are presently depicted within the flow-graph.
29. The system of claim 28 wherein the program instructions for generating the graphical user interface further comprise program instructions to: provide, associated with the graphical user interface, a second-level user-selectable control to display a conversations details dialog; responsive to the receipt of the second-level user-selectable control, generate and display, associated with the graphical interface, a plurality of details of one or more conversations selected by a user within the list of conversations.
30. The system of claim 29 wherein the conversations drill-down dialog comprises a drawer-style dialog.
31. The system of claim 23 wherein the program instructions for generating the graphical user interface further comprise program instructions to: provide, associated with the graphical user interface, a first-level user-selectable control to display a Goals drill-down dialog; responsive to the receipt of the first-level user-selectable control, generate and display, associated with the graphical interface, a summary of Goals contained within the selected conversations which are presently depicted within the flow-graph.
32. The system of claim 31 wherein the program instructions for generating the graphical user interface further comprise program instructions to: provide, associated with the graphical user interface, a second-level user-selectable control to display a Goals details dialog; responsive to the receipt of the second-level user-selectable control, generate and display, associated with the graphical interface, a plurality of details of any actual occurrences of conversations during which an interlocutor stated at least one user-selected Goal as the interlocutor's goal of an associated conversation.
33. The system of claim 32 wherein the Goals drill-down dialog comprises a drawer-style dialog.
</claims>
</document>
