<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F12/00,G06F16/11,G06F16/13,G06F16/185,G06F3/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZOLOTOW, CLEA A.
NORTHWAY, TEDRICK N.
O'REILLY, GAVIN C.
GOOLY, SUSHEEL
LACEY, DEREK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70458106
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Data management system for storage tiers
</title>

<abstract>
A method, apparatus, system, and computer program product for managing a storage system. Data associated with a set of tags is identified by a computer system using a policy, wherein the policy defines the set of tags for a set of types of data used in a process performed in an organization using data in the storage system. A set of storage tiers for the data associated with the set of tags is determined by the computer system using the policy. The policy defines the set of storage tiers for the data associated with the set of tags when the data associated with the set of tags is used by the process. The data associated with the set of tags is moved by the computer system to the set of storage tiers as determined using the policy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for managing a storage system, the method comprising: identifying, by a computer system, data associated with a set of tags using a policy, wherein the policy defines the set of tags for a set of types of data used in a process performed in an organization using data in the storage system; determining, by the computer system, a set of storage tiers for the data associated with the set of tags using the policy, wherein the policy defines the set of storage tiers for the data associated with the set of tags when the data associated with the set of tags is used by the process; and moving, by the computer system, the data associated with the set of tags to the set of storage tiers as determined using the policy.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein moving, by the computer system, the data associated with the set of tags to the set of storage tiers as determined using the policy comprises: moving, by the computer system, the data associated with the set of tags from a source file system to the set of storage tiers in a target file system as determined using the policy for the process such that the process can access the data in an expected storage tier for the process.
3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: associating, by the computer system, the set of tags with the data in the storage tiers in the storage system using the policy for the process such that the policy defines what types of data in the data are used by the process.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein associating, by the computer system, the set of tags with the data in the storage tiers in the storage system using the policy for the process comprises: searching, by the computer system, the storage system for the data having the set of types of data used in the process using the policy; and tagging, by the computer system, the data as having the set of types of data for the process with the set of tags using the policy.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the data associated with the set of tags in the set of storage tiers forms tagged data for the process and further comprising: adding, by the computer system, entries for the tagged data in a tag catalog database that comprises tags and locations of the tagged data in the storage system.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein adding, by the computer system, entries for the tagged data in a tag catalog database comprises: adding, by an artificial intelligence system in the computer system, entries for the tagged data in a tag catalog database that comprises tags and locations of the tagged data in the storage system.
7. The method of claim 3 further comprising: creating, by the computer system, a tagging process for associating the set of tags with the data in the set of storage tiers based on the policy defining the set of types of data in the data used in performing the process in the organization, wherein the associating is performed by executing, by the computer system, the tagging process.
8. The method of claim 1 further comprising: performing, by the computer system, the process in the organization using the data in the set of storage tiers.
9. A data management system comprising: a storage system storing data in a set of storage tiers in the storage system; and a computer system that identifies data associated with a set of tags using a policy, wherein the policy defines the set of tags for a set of types of data used in a process performed in an organization using data in the storage system; determines the set of storage tiers for the data associated with the set of tags using the policy, wherein the policy defines the set of storage tiers for the data associated with the set of tags when the data associated with the set of tags is used by the process; and moves the data associated with the set of tags to the set of storage tiers as determined using the policy.
10. The data management system of claim 9, wherein in moving, by the computer system, the data associated with the set of tags to the set of storage tiers as determined using the policy, the computer system moves the data associated with the set of tags from a source file system to the set of storage tiers in a target file system as determined using the policy for the process such that the process can access the data in an expected storage tier for the process.
11. The data management system of claim 9, wherein the computer system associates the set of tags with the data in the set of storage tiers in the storage system using the policy for the process such that the policy defines what types of data in the data are used by the process.
12. The data management system of claim 9, wherein in associating the set of tags with the data in the set of storage tiers in the storage system using the policy for the process, the computer system searches the storage system for the data having the set of types of data used in the process using the policy and tags the data as having the set of types of data for the process with the set of tags using the policy.
13. The data management system of claim 11, wherein the data associated with the set of tags in the set of storage tiers forms tagged data for the process and an artificial intelligence system in the computer system adds entries for the tagged data in a tag catalog database that comprises tags and locations of the tagged data in the storage system.
14. The data management system of claim 11, wherein the computer system creates a tagging process for associating the set of tags with the data to form tagged data in the set of storage tiers based on the policy defining a set of types of data in the data used in performing the process in the organization, wherein the computer system associates the set of tags with the data executing the tagging process.
15. The data management system of claim 9, wherein the set of storage tiers comprises at least one of a block storage, a file storage, an object storage, or a dark data storage.
16. A computer program product for managing data in a storage system, the computer program product comprising: a computer-readable storage media; first program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for identifying data associated with a set of tags using a policy, wherein the policy defines the set of tags for a set of types of data used in a process performed in an organization using data in the storage system, second program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for determining a set of storage tiers for the data associated with the set of tags using the policy, wherein the policy defines the set of storage tiers for the data associated with the set of tags when the data associated with the set of tags is used by the process; and third program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for moving the data associated with the set of tags to the set of storage tiers as determined using the policy.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the third program code comprises: program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for moving the data associated with the set of tags from a source file system to the set of storage tiers in a target file system as determined using the policy for the process such that the process can access the data in an expected storage tier for the process.
18. The computer program product of claim 16 further comprising: fourth program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for associating the set of tags with the data to form tagged data in the set of storage tiers in the storage system using the policy for the process such that the policy defines what types of data in the data are used by the process.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the fourth program code comprises: program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for searching the storage system for the data having the set of types of data used in the process using the policy; and program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for tagging the data as having the set of types of data for the process with the set of tags using the policy.
20. The computer program product of claim 18 further comprising: fifth program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for creating a tagging process for associating the set of tags with the data in the set of storage tiers based on the policy defining a set of types of data in the data used in performing the process in the organization, wherein the associating is performed by executing, by the computer system, the tagging process.
</claims>
</document>
