<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01F1/684,G01F5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DENSO CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
AKUZAWA, HIROYUKI
ITO, KENGO
KAIFU, TERUAKI
KITAHARA, NOBORU
TAGAWA, HIROSHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67547974
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PHYSICAL QUANTITY MEASUREMENT DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A physical quantity measurement device includes a housing forming a measurement flow path including a measurement inlet and a measurement outlet. The measurement flow path includes a sensor path in which a physical quantity sensor is disposed, an upstream curved path curved to extend from the sensor path toward the measurement inlet, and a downstream curved path curved to extend from the sensor path toward the measurement outlet. An inner surface of the housing includes an upstream outer curved surface that defines an outer outline of a curved part of the upstream curved path, and a downstream outer curved surface that defines an outer outline of a curve part of the downstream curved path. A degree of recess of the downstream outer curved surface is larger than a degree of recess of the upstream outer curved surface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A physical quantity measurement device for measuring a physical quantity of a fluid, the physical quantity measurement device comprising: a measurement flow path including a measurement inlet through which the fluid flows into the measurement flow path, and a measurement outlet through which the fluid flowing from the measurement inlet flows out of the measurement flow path; a physical quantity sensor that is provided in the measurement flow path and detects the physical quantity of the fluid; and a housing that defines the measurement flow path, wherein the measurement flow path includes: a sensor path in which the physical quantity sensor is disposed; an upstream curved path provided between the sensor path and the measurement inlet in the measurement flow path, the upstream curved path being curved in the housing so as to extend from the sensor path toward the measurement inlet; and a downstream curved path provided between the sensor path and the measurement outlet in the measurement flow path, the downstream curved path being curved in the housing so as to extend from the sensor path toward the measurement outlet, an inner surface of the housing includes: an upstream outer curved surface that defines an outer outline of a curved part of the upstream curved path; and a downstream outer curved surface that defines an outer outline of a curve part of the downstream curved path, and a degree of recess of the downstream outer curved surface in a direction expanding the measurement flow path is larger than a degree of recess of the upstream outer curved surface in the direction expanding the measurement flow path.
2. The physical quantity measurement device according to claim 1, wherein the upstream outer curved surface includes an upstream outer arched surface arched along the upstream curved path, the downstream outer curved surface includes a downstream outer arched surface arched along the downstream curved path, and a radius of curvature of the downstream outer arched surface is smaller than a radius of curvature of the upstream outer arched surface such that the degree of recess of the downstream outer curved surface is larger than the degree of recess of the upstream outer curved surface.
3. The physical quantity measurement device according to claim 1, wherein the upstream outer curved surface includes an upstream outer arched surface arched along the upstream curved path, the downstream outer curved surface forms an internal corner which has surfaces inwardly joined to each other to be recessed in the downstream curved path such that the degree of recess of the downstream outer curved surface is larger than the degree of recess of the upstream outer curved surface.
4. The physical quantity measurement device according to claim 1, wherein the inner surface of the housing includes: an upstream inner curved surface that defines an inner outline of a curved part of the upstream curved path; and a downstream inner curved surface that defines an inner outline of the curve part of the downstream curved path, and in a direction orthogonal to a center line of the measurement flow path, a largest distance between the downstream outer curved surface and the downstream inner curved surface is larger than a largest distance between the upstream outer curved surface and the upstream inner curved surface.
5. The physical quantity measurement device according to claim 4, wherein a degree of protrusion of the downstream inner curved surface in the direction expanding the measurement flow path is smaller than a degree of protrusion of the upstream inner curved surface in the direction expanding the measurement flow path.
6. The physical quantity measurement device according to claim 5, wherein the upstream inner curved surface includes an upstream inner arched surface arched along the upstream curved path, the downstream inner curved surface includes a downstream inner arched surface arched along the downstream curved path, and a radius of curvature of the downstream inner arched surface is larger than a radius of curvature of the upstream inner arched surface such that the degree of protrusion of the downstream inner curved surface is smaller than the degree of protrusion of the upstream inner curved surface.
7. The physical quantity measurement device according to claim 1, wherein the sensor path extends in a direction in which the upstream curved path and the downstream curved path are arranged.
8. The physical quantity measurement device according to claim 1, wherein the housing includes a measurement narrowed portion that gradually reduces and narrows the measurement flow path in a direction from the measurement inlet toward the physical quantity sensor, and gradually expands the measurement flow path in a direction from the physical quantity sensor toward the measurement outlet, and the measurement narrowed portion is provided in the measurement flow path between an upstream end part of the upstream curved path and a downstream end part of the downstream curved path.
9. The physical quantity measurement device according to claim 8, wherein the measurement narrowed portion includes: a measurement narrowing surface that forms the inner surface of the housing and gradually reduces and narrows the measurement flow path in the direction from the measurement inlet toward the physical quantity sensor; and a measurement expanding surface that gradually expands the measurement flow path in the direction from the physical quantity sensor toward the measurement outlet, and a length of the measurement expanding surface is larger than a length of the measurement narrowing surface in an arrangement direction in which the upstream curved path and the downstream curved path are arranged.
10. The physical quantity measurement device according to claim 9, wherein the measurement expanding surface extends straight from the physical quantity sensor toward the measurement outlet.
11. The physical quantity measurement device according to claim 8, wherein a distance between the downstream outer curved surface and the measurement narrowed portion in an arrangement direction in which the upstream curved path and the downstream curved path are arranged is larger than a distance between the upstream outer curved surface and the measurement narrowed portion in the arrangement direction.
12. The physical quantity measurement device according to claim 8, wherein the inner surface of the housing includes a pair of measurement wall surfaces defining the measurement flow path and facing each other across the upstream outer curved surface and the downstream outer curved surface, and the measurement narrowed portion is provided on at least one of the pair of measurement wall surfaces.
13. The physical quantity measurement device according to claim 1, wherein the inner surface of the housing includes a pair of wall surfaces defining the measurement flow path and facing each other across the upstream outer curved surface and the downstream outer curved surface, and the measurement outlet is provided on at least one of the pair of wall surfaces such that the measurement flow path is open through the measurement outlet in a direction in which the pair of wall surfaces are arranged.
</claims>
</document>
