<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01J3/06,G01J3/14,G01J3/18,G02B26/00,G02B27/42,G03F7/20,H01L21/027,H01S3/00,H01S3/08,H01S3/23
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CYMER
</assignee>

<inventors>
MASON, ERIC ANDERS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61904443
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SPECTRAL FEATURE CONTROL APPARATUS
</title>

<abstract>
A spectral feature selection apparatus includes a dispersive optical element arranged to interact with a pulsed light beam; three or more refractive optical elements arranged in a path of the pulsed light beam between the dispersive optical element and a pulsed optical source; and one or more actuation systems, each actuation system associated with a refractive optical element and configured to rotate the associated refractive optical element to thereby adjust a spectral feature of the pulsed light beam. At least one of the actuation systems is a rapid actuation system that includes a rapid actuator configured to rotate its associated refractive optical element about a rotation axis. The rapid actuator includes a rotary stepper motor having a rotation shaft that rotates about a shaft axis that is parallel with the rotation axis of the associated refractive optical element.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A spectral feature selection apparatus comprising: a dispersive optical element; a beam expander including a plurality of prisms arranged in a path between the dispersive optical element and an aperture; and at least one actuation system comprising a rapid actuator including a rotatable shaft to which a prism in the beam expander is fixed; wherein: the dispersive optical element and the beam expander are arranged such that a light beam interacts with the aperture, the beam expander, and the dispersive optical element along an optical path that lies in an XY plane of the apparatus; the rotatable shaft is configured to rotate about a shaft axis that is perpendicular to the XY plane and thereby causing the prism to rotate about a prism axis that is parallel with the shaft axis; and the rapid actuator lacks mechanical memory and lacks an energy ground state.
2. The spectral feature selection apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a control system connected to the actuation system, and configured to send a signal to the actuation system instructing the rapid actuator to rotate the rotatable shaft to thereby rotate the prism fixed to the rotatable shaft.
3. The spectral feature selection apparatus of claim 1, wherein the rapid actuator is associated with the prism that is farthest from the dispersive optical element and is the smallest prism within the beam expander.
4. The spectral feature selection apparatus of claim 1, wherein the rapid actuator is configured to move the prism fixed to the rotatable shaft by 15 degrees in less than 50 milliseconds.
5. The spectral feature selection apparatus of claim 1, wherein a center of mass of the prism fixed to the rotatable shaft is aligned with the shaft axis and the prism is fixed to the rotatable shaft such that it is directly rotated about its rotation axis as the rotatable shaft is rotated about its shaft axis.
6. The spectral feature selection apparatus of claim 1, wherein a center of mass of the prism fixed to the rotatable shaft is offset from the shaft axis.
7. The spectral feature selection apparatus of claim 6, wherein rotatable shaft is fixed to a first end of an arm and the prism fixed to the rotatable shaft is fixed to a second end of the arm.
8. The spectral feature selection apparatus of claim 7, wherein the prism fixed to the rotatable shaft is configured to be rotated about its center of mass and about the shaft axis.
9. The spectral feature selection apparatus of claim 1, wherein a rotational step of the rotatable shaft correlates to a rotational step of the prism fixed to the rotatable shaft, and the prism rotates by an incremental unit for each unit rotation of the rotatable shaft such that the prism rotates as fast as the rotational shaft.
10. The spectral feature selection apparatus of claim 1, wherein the actuation system includes a motor controller configured to control a rotation of the rotatable shaft using variable-frequency drive control.
11. The spectral feature selection apparatus of claim 1, wherein the dispersive optical element and the beam expander are arranged in a Littrow configuration.
12. The spectral feature selection apparatus of claim 1, wherein the rotatable shaft is configured to rotate about the shaft axis by 360°.
13. The spectral feature selection apparatus of claim 1, wherein each location of the rotatable shaft is at the same energy as each of the other locations of the rotatable shaft, and the rotatable shaft lacks a preferred resting location with a low potential energy.
14. An illumination system comprising: an optical source configured to produce a light beam; and a spectral feature selection apparatus arranged to interact with the light beam produced by the optical source, the spectral feature selection apparatus comprising: a dispersive optical element; a beam expander including a plurality of prisms arranged in a path between the dispersive optical element and an aperture through which the light beam of the optical source can pass; and at least one actuation system comprising a rapid actuator including a rotatable shaft to which a prism in the beam expander is fixed; wherein: the dispersive optical element and the beam expander are arranged such that the light beam of the optical source interacts with the aperture, the prisms, and the dispersive optical element along an optical path that lies in an XY plane of the apparatus; the rotatable shaft is configured to rotate about a shaft axis that is perpendicular to the XY plane and thereby causing the prism to rotate about a prism axis that is parallel with the shaft axis; and the rapid actuator lacks mechanical memory and lacks an energy ground state.
15. The illumination system of claim 14, further comprising a control module in communication with the spectral feature selection apparatus, the control module configured to change a bandwidth of the light beam by sending a signal to the actuation system to thereby rotate the rotatable shaft of the rapid actuator and the prism connected to the rapid actuator.
16. The illumination system of claim 15, wherein the rapid actuator is configured to change the bandwidth of the light beam from a first target value to a second target value and stabilize the bandwidth at the second target value in less than 50 milliseconds (ms).
17. The illumination system of claim 15, wherein the rapid actuator is configured to change the bandwidth of the light beam from a first target value to a second target value and stabilize the bandwidth at the second target value in a time that is less than a time between bursts of pulses of the light beam produced by the optical source.
18. The illumination system of claim 14, further comprising a measurement device configured to measure a bandwidth of the light beam output from the optical source, wherein rotation of the prism connected to the rapid actuator by a unit of rotation of the rotatable shaft causes a bandwidth of the light beam to change by an amount that is less than a resolution of the measurement device.
19. The illumination system of claim 14, wherein the rapid actuator includes a piezoelectric motor.
20. The illumination system of claim 14, wherein the optical source is a two-stage pulsed laser source that includes a master oscillator providing a seed light beam to a power amplifier, and the spectral feature selection apparatus receives the produced light beam from the master oscillator.
</claims>
</document>
