<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B62K23/00,B62M6/45,H02P21/00,H02P23/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHIMANO
</assignee>

<inventors>
KONDO, TOMOHIRO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69101494
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC DEVICE AND HUMAN-POWERED VEHICLE SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device includes an artificial intelligence processor that is configured to generate second information for controlling an electric component including at least one of a drive unit that applies propulsion force to a human-powered vehicle, an electric adjustable seatpost, and an electric suspension in accordance with first information related to at least one of the human-powered vehicle, a rider of the human-powered vehicle, and an environment of the human-powered vehicle. The artificial intelligence processor changes a process for generating the second information in accordance with the first information and in accordance with an operation of a first operation unit for operating the at least one of the drive unit, the electric adjustable seatpost, and the electric suspension.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device comprising: an artificial intelligence processor configured to generate second information for controlling an electric component including at least one of a drive unit that applies propulsion force to a human-powered vehicle, an electric adjustable seatpost, and an electric suspension in accordance with first information related to at least one of the human-powered vehicle, a rider of the human-powered vehicle, and an environment of the human-powered vehicle, the artificial intelligence processor being configured to change a process for generating the second information in accordance with the first information and in accordance with an operation of a first operation unit for operating the at least one of the drive unit, the electric adjustable seatpost, and the electric suspension.
2. An electronic device comprising: an artificial intelligence processor configured to generate second information for controlling an electric component provided on a human-powered vehicle in accordance with first information related to at least one of a rider of the human-powered vehicle and an environment of the human-powered vehicle, the artificial intelligence processor being configured to change a process for generating the second information in accordance with the first information and an operation of a first operation unit for operating the electric component.
3. The electronic device according to claim 2, wherein the electric component includes at least one of an electric transmission, a drive unit that applies propulsion force to the human-powered vehicle, an electric adjustable seatpost, and an electric suspension.
4. The electronic device according to claim 1, further comprising a detection unit that detects the first information.
5. The electronic device according to claim 4, wherein the detection unit includes a first detector provided on the human-powered vehicle and a second detector provided outside the human-powered vehicle.
6. The electronic device according to claim 1, wherein the first information related to the human-powered vehicle includes at least one of information related to an electric transmission that changes a transmission ratio of the human-powered vehicle, information related to the transmission ratio changed by the electric transmission, information related to a vehicle speed of the human-powered vehicle, information related to a rotational speed of a crank of the human-powered vehicle, information related to human driving force input to the human-powered vehicle, and information related to an inclination of the human-powered vehicle.
7. The electronic device according to claim 1, wherein the first information related to the rider of the human-powered vehicle includes biological information of the rider.
8. The electronic device according to claim 1, wherein the first information related to the environment of the human-powered vehicle includes information related to a traveling route of the human-powered vehicle.
9. The electronic device according to claim 1, further comprising: a controller configured to control the at least one of the drive unit, the electric adjustable seatpost, and the electric suspension, the controller being configured to operate in a first control state for controlling the at least one of the drive unit, the electric adjustable seatpost, and the electric suspension in accordance with the second information, and a second control state for controlling the at least one of the drive unit, the electric adjustable seatpost, and the electric suspension in accordance with the operation of the first operation unit.
10. The electronic device according to claim 2, further comprising a controller configured to control the electric component, the controller being configured to operate in a first control state for controlling the electric component in accordance with the second information, and a second control state for controlling the electric component in accordance with the operation of the first operation unit.
11. The electronic device according to claim 9, wherein the controller switches between the first control state and the second control state in accordance with an operation of a second operation unit.
12. The electronic device according to claim 9, wherein the controller is switched to the second control state in a case where the first operation unit is operated in the first control state.
13. The electronic device according to claim 9, wherein the controller switches to the first control state in a case where a predetermined condition is satisfied in the second control state.
14. The electronic device according to claim 9, wherein the controller issues a notification with a notification unit in a case where the first control state and the second control state are switched.
15. The electronic device according to claim 1, further comprising a communication unit, wherein the first information is input to the artificial intelligence processor through the communication unit.
16. The electronic device according to claim 15, wherein the communication unit is connected to the Internet and receives the first information via the Internet.
17. The electronic device according to claim 1, wherein the artificial intelligence processor generates a proposal related to a component of the human-powered vehicle in accordance with the first information.
18. The electronic device according to claim 17, further comprising a display unit for displaying the proposal related to the component of the human-powered vehicle.
19. The electronic device according to claim 1, wherein the artificial intelligence processor generates fourth information related to a setting of the human-powered vehicle in accordance with the first information.
20. A human-powered vehicle system comprising: the electronic device according to claim 1; and a controller configured to receive third information related to a process of the artificial intelligence processor from the electronic device and control the electric component in accordance with the first information and the third information.
</claims>
</document>
