<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/56,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
PATEL, ANKUR
MURDOCH, BRANDON
BUCHNER, DANIEL JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70334071
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SELF-HELP FOR DID CLAIMS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments disclosed herein are related to computing systems and methods for providing a self-help mechanism to DID owners. The computing system and methods are implemented in the decentralized network that implements a distributed ledger that backs one or more decentralized identities (DID) for one or more users of the computing system. One or more DID-related data such as a DID-related intent or attestation is received from a third party entity. The received DID-related data is analyzed to determine a meaning of the DID-related data and/or the implications of providing information that is requested in the DID-related data to the third party entity or to another entity. A report based on the analysis is provided to the DID owner. The report includes information about the meaning of the DID-related data and/or the implications of providing the data to the third party entity or to another entity.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system that is implemented in a decentralized network that implements a distributed ledger, the distributed ledger being configured to back one or more decentralized identities (DID) for one or more users of the computing system, the computing system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable media having thereon computer-executable instructions that are structured such that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing system to: receive one or more DID-related data from a third party entity; analyze the one or more DID-related data to determine one or more of a meaning of the DID-related data and the implications of providing information that is requested in the DID-related data to the third party entity or to another entity; and provide a report based on the analysis to an owner of a first DID, the report including information about one or more of the meaning of the DID-related data and the implications of providing the data to the third party entity or to another entity.
2. The computing system according to claim 1, wherein the DID-related data comprises one of a DID-related intent or a DID-related attestation.
3. The computing system according to claim 1, wherein the analysis of the DID-related data is triggered by a request from the owner of the first DID.
4. The computing system according to claim 1, wherein the analysis of the DID-related data is automatically triggered.
5. The computing system according to claim 4, wherein the analysis is automatically performed by machine learning.
6. The computing system according to claim 1, wherein the analysis further determines if the third party entity has provided the one or more DID-related data for a malicious purpose.
7. The computing system according to claim 1, wherein the computing system is further caused to generate a trust score for the third party entity, the trust score being used in conjunction with the report about the meaning of the DID-related data and the implications of providing the data to the third party entity to determine if any information should be provided to the third party entity.
8. In a computing system that is implemented in a decentralized network that implements a distributed ledger, the distributed ledger being configured to back one or more decentralized identities (DID) for one or more users of the computing system, a method for providing a self-help mechanism to an owner of a first DID, the method comprising: an act of receiving one or more DID-related data from a third party entity; an act of analyzing the one or more DID-related data to determine one or more of a meaning of the DID-related data and the implications of providing information that is requested in the DID-related data to the third party entity or to another entity; and an act of providing a report based on the analysis to the owner of the first DID, the report including information about one or more of the meaning of the DID-related data and the implications of providing the data to the third party entity or to another entity.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the DID-related data comprises one of a DID-related intent or a DID-related attestation.
10. The method according to claim 8, wherein the analysis of the DID-related data is triggered by a request from the owner of the first DID.
11. The method according to claim 8, wherein the analysis of the DID-related data is automatically triggered.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the analysis is automatically performed by machine learning.
13. The method according to claim 8, further comprising an act of determining if the third party entity has provided the one or more DID-related data for a malicious purpose.
14. The method according to claim 8, further comprising an act of generating a trust score for the third party entity, the trust score being used in conjunction with the report about the meaning of the DID-related data and the implications of providing the data to the third party entity to determine if any information should be provided to the third party entity.
15. A computer program product comprising one or more computer-readable storage media having thereon computer-executable instructions that are structured such that, when executed by one or more processors of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform a method for providing a self-help mechanism to an owner of a first DID, the method comprising: an act of receiving one or more DID-related data from a third party entity; an act of analyzing the one or more DID-related data to determine one or more of a meaning of the DID-related data and the implications of providing information that is requested in the DID-related data to the third party entity or to another entity; and an act of providing a report based on the analysis to the owner of the first DID, the report including information about one or more of the meaning of the DID-related data and the implications of providing the data to the third party entity or to another entity.
16. The computer program product in accordance with claim 15, wherein the DID-related data comprises one of a DID-related intent or a DID-related attestation.
17. The computer program product in accordance with claim 15, wherein the analysis of the DID-related data is triggered by a request from the owner of the first DID.
18. The computer program product in accordance with claim 15, wherein the analysis of the DID-related data is automatically triggered.
19. The computer program product in accordance with claim 15, further comprising an act of determining if the third party entity has provided the one or more DID-related data for a malicious purpose.
20. The computer program product in accordance with claim 15, further comprising an act of generating a trust score for the third party entity, the trust score being used in conjunction with the report about the meaning of the DID-related data and the implications of providing the data to the third party entity to determine if any information should be provided to the third party entity.
</claims>
</document>
