<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-21
</priority_date>

<assignee>
DOOSAN HEAVY INDUSTRIES & CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, SANGJIN
KIM, HYUNSIK
PARK, JEEHUN
PARK, JAEHYEON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69413131
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FLOW ANALYSIS APPARATUS AND METHOD THEREFOR
</title>

<abstract>
A flow analysis apparatus is provided. The flow analysis apparatus includes a model deriver configured to generate a flow analytic model for performing a flow analysis for a plurality of cells by using analytic data including a plurality of input signals used for performing multiple times iterations of numerical analysis by Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) and a plurality of output signals corresponding to each of the plurality of input signals, and a flow analyzer configured to perform the flow analysis for the plurality of cells that divide the space around a design target component by using the generated flow analytic model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A flow analysis apparatus, comprising: a model deriver configured to generate a flow analytic model for performing a flow analysis for a plurality of cells by simulating a numerical analysis by Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) with respect to the plurality of cells that divide a space around a component; and a flow analyzer configured to perform the flow analysis for the plurality of cells that divide the space around a design target component by using the generated flow analytic model.
2. The flow analysis apparatus of claim 1, wherein the model deriver comprises: an analyzing data storage configured to store analytic data used for the numerical analysis; a signal generating model deriver configured to generate a signal generating model for predicting an input signal contributing to an output signal of the numerical analysis performed multiple times iterations through the analytic data; and an analytic model deriver configured to generate the analytic data for predicting the output signal of the numerical analysis performed multiple times iterations through the analytic data.
3. The flow analysis apparatus of claim 2, wherein the signal generating model deriver predicts the input signal contributing to the output signal of the numerical analysis performed multiple times iterations through an Equation wherein the k and the T refer to the number of times of numerical analysis, wherein the H refers to a degree of influence, wherein the Q refers to a weight, wherein the D refers to a cancellation constant, wherein the V(k) refers to an input signal of the kth numerical analysis, wherein the Y(k) refers to an output signal of the kth numerical analysis, and wherein the {circumflex over (V)}(k+T) refers to an input signal of the (k+T)th numerical analysis.
4. The flow analysis apparatus of claim 2, wherein the signal generating model deriver generates a signal generating model by deriving a parameter through an optimization algorithm after constituting a relationship equation of the signal generating model where the parameter is not determined.
5. The flow analysis apparatus of claim 2, wherein the analytic model deriver predicts the output signal of the numerical analysis performed multiple times iterations through an Equation wherein the k and the T refer to the number of times of numerical analysis, wherein the A refers to a degree of influence, wherein the P refers to a weight, wherein the C refers to a cancellation constant, wherein the Y(k) refers to an output signal of the kth numerical analysis, wherein the {circumflex over (V)}(k+T) refers to an input signal of the (k+T)th numerical analysis, and wherein the Ŷ(k+T) refers to an output signal of the (k+T)th numerical analysis.
6. The flow analysis apparatus of claim 2, wherein the analytic model deriver generates an analytic model by deriving a parameter through an optimization algorithm after constituting a relationship equation of the analytic model where the parameter is not determined.
7. The flow analysis apparatus of claim 2, wherein the flow analyzer comprises: a numerical analyzer configured to derive the analytic data by performing the numerical analysis for the design target component; a signal generator configured to derive the input signal contributing to the output signal of the numerical analysis performed multiple times iterations through the signal generating model derived from the signal generating model deriver and the analytic data derived from the numerical analyzer; and an analyzer configured to derive the output signal of the numerical analysis performed multiple times iterations through the analytic model derived from the analytic model deriver from the input signal predicted by the signal generator.
8. The flow analysis apparatus of claim 7, wherein the numerical analyzer derives the analytic data by performing the numerical analysis by Computational Fluid Dynamics with respect to the plurality of cells that divide the space around the design target component.
9. The flow analysis apparatus of claim 8, wherein the signal generator derives the input signal contributing to the output signal of the numerical analysis performed a predetermined number of times iterations by inputting the analytic data to the signal generating model.
10. The flow analysis apparatus of claim 9, wherein the analyzer derives the output signal where the numerical analysis has been performed the predetermined number of times iterations by inputting the output signal of the analytic data and the contributing input signal to the analytic model.
11. A flow analysis apparatus, comprising: a model deriver configured to generate a flow analytic model for performing a flow analysis for a plurality of cells by using analytic data used for a numerical analysis by Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) with respect to the plurality of cells that divide a space around a component; and a flow analyzer configured to perform the flow analysis for the plurality of cells that divide the space around a design target component by using the generated flow analytic model.
12. The flow analysis apparatus of claim 11, wherein the flow analytic model simulates the numerical analysis performed multiple times iterations by the Computational Fluid Dynamics.
13. The flow analysis apparatus of claim 12, wherein the flow analytic model comprises: one or more signal generating models for predicting an input signal contributing to a result of the numerical analysis performed multiple times iterations among the plurality of input signals through the analytic data; and an analytic model for predicting the result of the numerical analysis performed multiple times iterations through the analytic data.
14. The flow analysis apparatus of claim 13, wherein the signal generating model predicts the input signal contributing to the output signal of the numerical analysis performed multiple times iterations through an Equation wherein the k and the T refer to parameters representing the number of times of numerical analysis, wherein the H refers to a degree of influence, wherein the Q refers to a weight, wherein the D refers to a cancellation constant, wherein the V(k) refers to an input signal of the kth numerical analysis, wherein the Y(k) refers to an output signal of the kth numerical analysis, and wherein the {circumflex over (V)}(k+T) refers to an input signal of the (k+T)th numerical analysis.
15. The flow analysis apparatus of claim 13, wherein the analytic model predicts the output signal of the numerical analysis performed multiple times iterations through an Equation wherein the k and the T refer to the number of times of numerical analysis, wherein the A refers to a degree of influence, wherein the P refers to a weight, wherein the C refers to a cancellation constant, wherein the Y(k) refers to an output signal of the kth numerical analysis, wherein the {circumflex over (V)}(k+T) refers to an input signal of the (k+T)th numerical analysis, and wherein the Ŷ(k) refers to an output signal of the (k+T)th numerical analysis.
16. A flow analysis method, comprising: storing, by a model deriver, analytic data comprising a plurality of input signals used for a numerical analysis by Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) with respect to a plurality of cells that divide a space around a component and a plurality of output signals corresponding to each of the plurality of input signals; generating, by the model deriver, a flow analytic model for performing a flow analysis for the plurality of cells by using the analytic data; and performing, by a flow analyzer, the flow analysis for the plurality of cells that divide the space around a design target component by using the flow analytic model.
17. The flow analysis method of claim 16, wherein the generating the flow analytic model comprises: generating, by a signal generating model deriver, a signal generating model for predicting an input signal contributing to an output signal of the numerical analysis performed multiple times iterations among the plurality of input signals through the analytic data; and generating, by an analytic model deriver. the analytic model for predicting the output signal of the numerical analysis performed multiple times iterations among the plurality of input signals through the analytic data.
18. The flow analysis method of claim 17, wherein the generating the signal generating model comprises predicting the input signal contributing to the output signal of the numerical analysis performed multiple times iterations through an Equation wherein the k and the T refer to the number of times of numerical analysis, wherein the H refers to a degree of influence, wherein the Q refers to a weight, wherein the D refers to a cancellation constant, wherein the V(k) refers to an input signal of the kth numerical analysis, wherein the Y(k) refers to an output signal of the kth numerical analysis, and wherein the {circumflex over (V)}(k+T) refers to an input signal of the (k+T)th numerical analysis.
19. The flow analysis method of claim 17, wherein the generating the analytic model comprises predicting the output signal of the numerical analysis performed multiple times iterations through an Equation wherein the k and the T refer to the number of times of numerical analysis, wherein the A refers to a degree of influence, wherein the P refers to a weight, wherein the C refers to a cancellation constant, wherein the Y(k) refers to an output signal of the kth numerical analysis, wherein the {circumflex over (V)}(k+T) refers to an input signal of the (k+T)th numerical analysis, and wherein the Ŷ(k+T) refers to an output signal of the (k+T)th numerical analysis.
20. The flow analysis method of claim 17, wherein the generating the signal generating model comprises: constituting, by the signal generating model deriver, a relationship equation of the signal generating model where a parameter is not determined; and completing, by the signal generating model deriver, the signal generating model by deriving the parameter through an optimization algorithm.
</claims>
</document>
