<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N35/00,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BERKELEY LIGHTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
Banda, JR., Daniel
Bruhn, Brandon R.
Fowler, Matthew E.
Thaker, Darshan
Bozinovic, Nenad
Mobilia, Kellen C.
Nedungadi, Samira A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73456561
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR OPTIMIZING AN INSTRUMENT SYSTEM WORKFLOW
</title>

<abstract>
A system and a method for dynamically optimizing an instrument system workflow based on operational monitoring and managing of a workflow for a hardware system. The system includes instrument resources and sample chambers, each resource and chamber with a dedicated sensor configured to acquire data. The system further includes a computing device communicatively connected to the instrument resources and sample chambers. The computing device includes a software application or program comprising a workflow builder, an execution engine, an analytics engine, a virtual system modeling engine, and an optional machine learning engine.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for dynamically optimizing an instrument system workflow, comprising: one or more instrument resources, each instrument resource having an instrument resource sensor configured to acquire data from the instrument resource; one or more sample chambers, each sample chamber having a sample chamber sensor configured to acquire data from the sample chamber; and a computing device communicatively connected to the one or more instrument resources and sample chambers, or sensors thereof, the computing device comprising: a workflow builder configured to allow a user to create or customize an instrument workflow program for an instrument system; a virtual system modeling engine configured to optimize the instrument workflow program utilizing a virtual system model of the instrument system and generate an optimized instrument workflow program; an analytics engine communicatively connected to the dedicated instrument resource and sample chamber sensors and configured to monitor real-time data output from the sensors and initiate a calibration operation to update the virtual system model when a variance condition is detected in the data output from the sensors; and an execution engine configured to process the optimized instrument workflow program for the instrument system and provide operating instructions to the one or more instrument resources and sample chambers.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a machine learning engine configured to train the analytics engine to further improve the optimized instrument workflow program.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more instrument resources comprises a pump, a nest, a needle, or a receptacle.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more sample chambers comprises an incubator, a well plate, or a tube.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more instrument resources and the one or more sample chambers are housed within a housing.
6. The system of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the variance condition includes an alarm from the sensors, a warning of low material detected by the sensors, a result of a periodic image analysis, an end of workflow step notification, or a user input.
7. A method for dynamically optimizing an instrument system workflow, comprising: creating an instrument workflow program comprising one or more operating instructions for an instrument resource and a sample chamber housed in an instrument system; acquiring data from sensors monitoring the instrument resource and sample chamber; updating a virtual system model of the instrument system in response to detecting a variance condition in the acquired data; generating an optimized instrument workflow program utilizing the updated virtual system model; and providing operating instructions to the instrument resource and sample chamber based on the optimized instrument workflow program.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: improving the updated virtual system model utilizing machine learning; and generating the optimized instrument workflow program utilizing the improved updated virtual system model.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the instrument resource comprises a pump, a nest, a needle, or a receptacle.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the sample chamber comprises an incubator, a well plate, or a tube.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein the instrument resource and the sample chamber, or sensors thereof, are communicatively coupled to a computer device via a network connection.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein the instrument system comprises a computing device that is communicatively coupled to the instrument resource and the sample chamber, or sensors thereof.
13. The method of claim 7, wherein updating the virtual system model includes updating periodically at a preset interval.
14. The method of any one of claims 7 to 13, wherein the variance condition includes an alarm from the sensors, a warning of low material detected by the sensors, a result of a periodic image analysis, an end of workflow step notification, or a user input.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising machine-readable instructions for causing a processor to execute a method for dynamically optimizing an instrument system workflow, comprising: creating an instrument workflow program comprising one or more operating instructions for an instrument resource and a sample chamber housed in an instrument system; acquiring data from sensors monitoring the instrument resource and sample chamber; updating a virtual system model of the instrument system in response to detecting a variance condition in the acquired data; generating an optimized instrument workflow program utilizing the updated virtual system model; and providing operating instructions to the instrument resource and sample chamber based on the optimized instrument workflow program.
16. A system for dynamically optimizing an instrument system workflow, the system comprising: one or more instrument resources and at least one instrument resource sensor configured to acquire data from one or more of the instrument resource(s); a holder for a sample chamber and at least one sample chamber sensor; one or more receptacles, each receptacle configured to hold a reagent; and a computing device communicatively connected to each of the one or more instrument resources and/or their sensor(s) and each of the one or more sample chambers and/or their sensor(s), the computing device comprising: a workflow builder configured to accept user input and create a workflow program to be performed by the instrument system, wherein the workflow program comprises a series of operations; an operations framework configured to direct the performance of the workflow program by the instrument system by calling each operation in the series of operations, wherein timing of the calling of operations is adjusted based on data received from the at least one instrument resource sensor, the at least one sample chamber sensor, at least one operation, and/or additional user input to thereby optimize time to completion of the workflow program; a set of operations, each operation configured to instruct one or more instrument resources to perform a predetermined task; and a workflow modeling component configured to receive data from the operations framework and maintain a model of the status of the workflow program based upon the received data.
17. The system of claim 16 further comprising: a machine learning engine configured to work with the operations framework to improve the timing of the calling of operations and thereby further optimize the time to completion of the workflow program.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the operations framework adjusts the calling of operations in real time.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein each of the one or more instrument resources comprises a pump, an input/output needle, an incubator, a holder for a sample chamber, a stage, or an optical train.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the system comprises an incubator, and wherein the incubator is configured to hold a well plate.
21. The system of claim 19, wherein the system comprises a plurality of instrument resources, and wherein each of the plurality of instrument resources has an instrument resource sensor configured to acquire data from the instrument resource.
22. The system of claim 16, wherein the sample chamber holder is a nest and the sample chamber is a microfluidic device, and wherein the nest comprises electrical and fluidic connections for interfacing with the microfluidic device.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the system comprises a plurality of sample chamber holders.
24. The system of any one of claims 16 to 23, wherein the at least one sample chamber sensor comprises an optical train, and wherein the optical train comprises a camera configured to image the sample chamber.
25. The system of claim 24, wherein the optical train further comprises a projector and/or a laser.
26. The system of any one of claims 16 to 23, wherein the system further comprises one or more holders for sample containers used to hold preor post-processed sample, and wherein the sample container holders are configured to hold a tube or a well plate.
27. The system of any one of claims 16 to 23, wherein data received by the operations framework from the at least one instrument resource sensor is received directly from the instrument resource sensor.
28. The system of any one of claims 16 to 23, wherein data received by the operations framework from the at least one instrument resource sensor is received indirectly from an operation that instructed the corresponding instrument resource.
29. The system of any one of claims 16 to 23, wherein the additional user input received by the operations framework is received indirectly from the workflow modeling component.
30. The system of any one of claims 16 to 23, wherein the set of operations comprises operations for loading a sample into the sample chamber, detecting micro-objects located within the sample chamber, relocating micro-objects detected in the sample chamber, supplying one or more reagents to the sample chamber, assaying micro-objects detected in the sample chamber, and exporting micro-objects from the sample chamber.
31. The system of any one of claims 16 to 23, wherein the workflow modeling component maintains a real time model of the status of the workflow program based upon the received data.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein the model of the status of the workflow program maintained by the workflow modeling component is displayed on a graphical user interface, wherein the workflow modeling component is further configured to instruct the user to perform specific tasks during the performance of the workflow program.
33. The system of any one of claims 16 to 23, wherein the data received by the operations framework comprises an alarm indicating that a one or more operations in the series of operations cannot be completed, a warning of low material detected in the one or more receptacles, a result from an analysis of an image of the sample chamber, or completion of an operation in the series of operations.
34. The system of any one of claims 16 to 23, wherein the one or more instrument resources, the sample chamber holder, and the one or more receptacles are housed within a housing.
35. A method for dynamically optimizing a workflow program, comprising: creating a workflow program comprising a series of operations, each operation of the series comprising operating instructions for one or more instrument resources housed in an instrument system; acquiring data from sensors monitoring the one or more instrument resources and a sample chamber comprising a sample; generating an optimized workflow program in response to detecting a variance condition in the acquired data; utilizing the optimized workflow program to update a model of the status of the workflow program; and providing operating instructions to the one or more instrument resources based on the optimized instrument workflow program.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein the instrument system is the system of any one of claims 16 to 23.
37. The method of claim 35, wherein updating the model of the status of the workflow program is performed periodically, optionally at a preset interval.
38. The method of claim 35, wherein the variance condition comprises an alarm indicating that one or more operations in the series of operations cannot be completed, a warning of low material detected in an instrument system receptacle, a result from an analysis of an image of the sample chamber, or completion of an operation in the series of operations.
39. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising machine-readable instructions for causing a processor to execute a method for dynamically optimizing an workflow program, comprising: creating a workflow program comprising a series of operations, each operation comprising operating instructions for one or more instrument resources housed in an instrument system; acquiring data from sensors monitoring the one or more instrument resources and a sample chamber comprising a sample; generating an optimized workflow program in response to detecting a variance condition in the acquired data; utilizing the optimized workflow program to update a model of the status of the workflow program; and providing operating instructions to the one or more instrument resources based on the optimized instrument workflow program.
40. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 39, wherein the instrument system is the system of any one of claims 16 to 23.
41. A graphical user interface (GUI) for dynamically displaying experimental workflow conditions, the GUI comprising: a configurable time window providing a time range equal to or less than the time needed to execute the experimental workflow; a workflow display providing overall status of the experimental workflow within the time window; an operations display providing workflow operations within the time window; a current time indicator providing a visual representation of the current time within the time window; and one or more touchpoint images, each touchpoint image indicating a time during the experimental workflow when a user will need to interact with a system performing the experimental workflow, wherein each touchpoint image is associated with a requirement, wherein the requirement is manipulated in real-time during the workflow in response to one or more workflow factors impacting the system operations within the time window, and wherein the touchpoint image is automatically re-positioned in response to the manipulation of the requirement.
42. The GUI of claim 41, wherein the manipulation of the requirement includes removing the requirement, adding one or more additional requirements, advancing the requirement in the time window, pushing back the requirement in the time window, reframing the requirement, or a combination thereof.
43. The GUI of claim 41, further comprising a system display providing system operations within the time window.
44. The GUI of claim 41, further comprising a nest operations display displaying one or more individual nest displays, each individual nest display providing corresponding nest operations within the time window.
45. The GUI of claim 41, further comprising a status window that provides a plurality of selectable tabs, the plurality of selectable tags including a requirements tab, a log output tab, a touchpoints tab, or a combination thereof.
46. The GUI of claim 45, wherein the requirements tab displays a listing of one or more textual frames with information about upcoming or pending requirements associated with at least one or the one or more touchpoint images, and wherein the one or more textual frames are manipulated in real-time in response manipulation of the associated requirements in response to one or more workflow factors impacting the system operations.
47. The GUI of any one of claims 41 to 46, wherein the time window is configured between about five minutes and about seven days.
48. The GUI of any one of claims 41 to 46, wherein the time window is configured using a selectable zoom feature on the GUI.
49. The GUI of any one of claims 41 to 46, wherein the workflow display, the operations display, and the one or more touchpoint images are automatically repositioned on the GUI in response to a change to the time window.
50. The GUI of any one of claims 41 to 46, further comprising a display of one or more reagent levels, deionized water level, bleach level, number of chips used in the workflow, type of chip(s) used in the workflow, number of nests used in the workflow, the presence of well plates in well plate incubators, the absence of well plates in well plate incubators, and any combination thereof.
51. The GUI of any one of claims 41 to 46, further comprising a plurality of touchpoint images and one or more requirements associated with each of the touchpoint images.
52. The GUI of any one of claims 41 to 46, wherein the workflow operations are categorized as a completed operation, an in-process operation, or a future operation.
53. The GUI of claim 52, wherein the workflow operations are displayed such that each category of operation is visually distinguished from the other categories.
54. The GUI of claim 53, wherein each category is provided a specific color or pattern such that each category of operation is visually distinguished from the other categories.
</claims>
</document>
