<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/245,G06F16/25,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CRAPO, ANDREW WALTER
MULWAD, VARISH
VIRANI, NURALI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72040645
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PRINCIPLED APPROACH TO SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE REPRESENTATION, EXTRACTION, CURATION, AND UTILIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
A system, method, and computer-readable medium to extract information from at least one of code and text documentation, the extracted information conforming to a base ontology and being extracted in the context of a knowledge graph; add the extracted information to the knowledge graph; generate, in a mixed interaction with a user selectively in communication with the system, computational models including scientific knowledge; and persist, in a memory, a record of the generated computational models.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a memory storing processor-executable instructions; and a processor to execute the processor-executable instructions to cause the system to: extract information from at least one of code and text documentation, the extracted information conforming to a base ontology and being extracted in the context of a knowledge graph; add the extracted information to the knowledge graph; generate, in a mixed interaction with a user selectively in communication with the system, computational models including scientific knowledge; and persist, in a memory, a record of the generated computational models.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the mixed interaction of the user with the system includes a mechanism for the user to query the system, the user to provide unsolicited information to the system, the system to query the user and the system to consume information provided by the user.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the computational models is generated independently of any interaction from the user.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the extracting of information from at least one of the code and the text documentation further comprises at least one of extracting information from the code being informed by an extraction of information from the text, extracting information from the text being informed by an extraction of information from the code, and a combination thereof.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the extracting of information from at least one of code and text documentation comprises extracting aligned information from the sources of the at least one of code and text documentation.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the record of the generated computational models includes detailed knowledge indicative of a context of the knowledge represented by the computational model.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the computational model representing the scientific knowledge is, at least one of, created, appended, overwritten, refined, and coarsened based on one or more of curated knowledge and user feedback.
8. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising: extracting, by a processor, information from at least one of code and text documentation, the extracted information conforming to a base ontology and being extracted in the context of a knowledge graph; adding, by the processor, the extracted information to the knowledge graph; generating, by the processor, in response to a mixed interaction with a user selectively in communication with the system, computational models including scientific knowledge; and persisting, in a memory, a record of the generated computational models.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the mixed interaction of the user with the system includes a mechanism for the user to query the system, the user to provide unsolicited information to the system, the system to query the user and the system to consume information provided by the user.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one of the computational models is generated independently of any interaction from the user.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the extracting of information from at least one of the code and the text documentation further comprises at least one of extracting information from the code being informed by an extraction of information from the text, extracting information from the text being informed by an extraction of information from the code, and a combination thereof.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the extracting of information from at least one of code and text documentation comprises extracting aligned information from the sources of the at least one of code and text documentation.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the record of the generated computational models includes detailed knowledge indicative of a context of the knowledge represented by the computational model.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the computational model representing the scientific knowledge is, at least one of, created, appended, overwritten, refined, or coarsened based on one or more of curated knowledge and user feedback.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by a computer processor, cause the computer processor to perform a method comprising: extracting information from at least one of code and text documentation, the extracted information conforming to a base ontology and being extracted in the context of a knowledge graph; adding the extracted information to the knowledge graph; generating in response to a mixed interaction with a user selectively in communication with the system, computational models including scientific knowledge; and persisting, in a memory, a record of the generated computational models.
16. The medium of claim 15, wherein the mixed interaction of the user with the system includes a mechanism for the user to query the system, the user to provide unsolicited information to the system, the system to query the user and the system to consume information provided by the user.
17. The medium of claim 15, wherein at least one of the computational models is generated independently of any interaction from the user.
18. The medium of claim 15, wherein the extracting of information from at least one of the code and the text documentation further comprises at least one of extracting information from the code being informed by an extraction of information from the text, extracting information from the text being informed by an extraction of information from the code, and a combination thereof.
19. The medium of claim 15, wherein the extracting of information from at least one of code and text documentation comprises extracting aligned information from the sources of the at least one of code and text documentation.
20. The medium of claim 15, wherein the computational model representing the scientific knowledge is, at least one of, created, appended, overwritten, refined, or coarsened based on one or more of curated knowledge and user feedback.
</claims>
</document>
