<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/74,G06F21/88,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,H04W12/00,H04W12/12,H04W4/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HENDEL, GUY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HENDEL, GUY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66247060
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REAL-TIME MONITORED MOBILE DEVICE SECURITY
</title>

<abstract>
A system and apparatus provide mobile device and data protection by establishing a user identifier, signature, or fingerprint in response to monitoring distances or proximities between two or more of a user's devices. A device's relative location or proximity to the user and to other devices is measured and tracked in real time to provide better device security, content protection and loss prevention. A processor of the device tracks one or more conditions indicative of wireless connectivity between one or more auxiliary devices and the mobile device, monitors whether the mobile computing device is operating within the one or more conditions, and controls operation of the mobile computing device to enforce security policies, based on the monitoring.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for controlling a mobile computing device to prevent or minimize loss or theft, the method comprising: identifying, by at least one processor of a mobile computing device, one or more nodes in communication with the mobile computing device via a wireless link during a most recent period; accessing, by the at least one processor, one or more conditions indicative of wireless connectivity between the one or more nodes and the mobile computing device; monitoring, by the at least one processor, whether the mobile computing device is operating within the one or more conditions; and controlling, by the at least one processor, operation of the mobile computing device for security, based on the monitoring.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more nodes comprises a short-range device having an effective radiated power not greater than 100 mW.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the wireless link for identifying the one or more nodes comprises a cellular data system link.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor performs the monitoring by a rules-based algorithm with configurable parameters and the method further comprises evaluating, by the at least one processor, the configurable parameters against periodic samples indicative of the wireless connectivity, wherein the configurable parameters comprise at least one of: a count of consecutive one of the samples exceeding a threshold, two or more different weights for different ranges of the samples' values, and a rate of change in the periodic samples.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising sampling, by the at least one processor, the periodic samples selected from the group consisting of: a received signal strength indicator (RSSI), a bandwidth, a network identity indicator, or a ping response.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor performs the monitoring by a machine-learning algorithm trained over a set of training data, and the method further comprises generating data for the set of training data at least in part by collecting a history of connections by the mobile communication device with the one or more nodes.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more nodes comprises one or more peers to the mobile computing device each running a complementary one or more conditions indicative of wireless connectivity, and further comprising responding to a query from the one or more peers.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the controlling comprises at least one of (a) selecting and activating a security policy based on which of the one or more conditions the mobile computing device is violating, (b) terminating the security policy and restoring normal operation of the mobile computing device based on the monitoring, wherein the monitoring shows that the mobile computing device is operating within the one or more conditions, (c) selecting the security policy from a plurality of different security policies based on a current condition of the mobile computing device matching one of different subsets of the one or more conditions, wherein each of the different subsets triggers selecting a different one of the plurality of different security policies, and (d) wherein selecting the security policy includes selecting or more of: causing the mobile computing device to emit an alarm signal, locking the mobile computing device, sending a lost or stolen alert to a remote monitoring server, and deleting designated data stored on the mobile computing device.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining by the at least one processor a geographic location of the mobile computing device and adjusting the one or more conditions based on the geographic location.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising by the at least one processor, adjusting the one or more conditions based on changes in one or more identities of the one or more nodes, alone or in combination with one or more of: maintaining in a computer memory a list of one or more qualified ones of the one or more nodes each proximally associated with at least one of a geographic location, an identified user of the mobile computing device, or another of the one or more nodes, and determining use case criteria comprising at least one of a geographic location of the mobile computing device, the identified user, and the another of the one or more nodes, and adjusting the one or more conditions based on the use case criteria.
11. A portable computing apparatus for preventing or minimizing loss or theft thereof, comprising at least one processor coupled to a wireless transceiver and to a memory, the memory holding program instructions that when executed by the processor cause the apparatus to perform: identifying one or more nodes in communication with the apparatus via a wireless link of the transceiver during a most recent period; accessing one or more conditions indicative of wireless connectivity between the one or more nodes and the apparatus; monitoring whether the apparatus is operating within the one or more conditions; and controlling operation of the apparatus for security, based on the monitoring.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the one or more nodes comprises a short-range device having an effective radiated power not greater than 100 mW.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the wireless link for identifying the one or more nodes comprises a cellular data system link.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the memory holds further instructions for performing the monitoring by a rules-based algorithm with configurable parameters and for evaluating, by the at least one processor, the configurable parameters against periodic samples indicative of the wireless connectivity, wherein the configurable parameters comprise at least one of: a count of consecutive one of the samples exceeding a threshold, two or more different weights for different ranges of the samples' values, and a rate of change in the periodic samples.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the memory holds further instructions for sampling the periodic samples selected from the group consisting of: a received signal strength indicator (RS SI), a bandwidth, a network identity indicator, or a ping response.
16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the memory holds further instructions for performing the monitoring by a machine-learning algorithm trained over a set of training data, and for generating data for the set of training data at least in part by collecting a history of connections by the mobile communication device with the one or more nodes.
17. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the one or more nodes comprises one or more peers to the apparatus each running a complementary secure use component, and wherein the memory holds further instructions for responding to a query from the one or more peers.
18. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the memory holds further instructions for performing the controlling by at least in part one of (a) selecting and activating a security policy based on which of the one or more conditions the mobile computing device is violating, (b) terminating the security policy and restoring normal operation of the mobile computing device based on the monitoring, wherein the monitoring shows that the mobile computing device is operating within the one or more conditions, (c) selecting the security policy from a plurality of different security policies based on a current condition of the mobile computing device matching one of different subsets of the one or more conditions, wherein each of the different subsets triggers selecting a different one of the plurality of different security policies, and (d) wherein selecting the security policy includes selecting or more of: causing the mobile computing device to emit an alarm signal, locking the mobile computing device, sending a lost or stolen alert to a remote monitoring server, and deleting designated data stored on the mobile computing device.
19. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the memory holds further instructions for determining a geographic location of the mobile computing device and adjusting the one or more conditions based on the geographic location.
20. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the memory holds further instructions for adjusting the one or more conditions based on changes in one or more identities of the one or more nodes, alone or in combination with one or more of: maintaining in a computer memory a list of one or more qualified ones of the one or more nodes each proximally associated with at least one of a geographic location, an identified user of the mobile computing device, or another of the one or more nodes, and determining use case criteria comprising at least one of a geographic location of the mobile computing device, the identified user, and the another of the one or more nodes, and adjusting the one or more conditions based on the use case criteria.
</claims>
</document>
