<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F3/16,G09G5/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SAITO MARI
SUGIHARA, KENJI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63712464
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INFORMATION PROCESSING DEVICE, INFORMATION PROCESSING METHOD, AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
An information processing device according to an embodiment of the present technology includes a line-of-sight-information acquisition unit, an input-information acquisition unit, and a position presentation unit. The line-of-sight-information acquisition unit acquires first line-of-sight information that indicates a gaze position of a first user with respect to a specified object. The input-information acquisition unit acquires specified input information regarding an input performed by at least one of the first user or a second user. The position presentation unit controls, on the basis of the specified input information, an information providing device to perform a position presentation control for presenting, to the second user, the gaze position of the first user in an invisible state.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing device comprising: a line-of-sight-information acquisition unit that acquires first line-of-sight information that indicates a gaze position of a first user with respect to a specified object; an input-information acquisition unit that acquires specified input information regarding an input performed by at least one of the first user or a second user; and a position presentation unit that controls, on a basis of the specified input information, an information providing device to perform a position presentation control for presenting, to the second user, the gaze position of the first user in an invisible state.
2. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the line-of-sight-information acquisition unit acquires second line-of-sight information that indicates a gaze position of the second user with respect to the specified object, the input-information acquisition unit acquires, as the specified input information, positional relationship information regarding a positional relationship between the gaze position of the first user and the gaze position of the second user, and on a basis of the positional relationship information, the position presentation unit controls the information providing device to perform the position presentation control.
3. The information processing device according to claim 2, wherein on a basis of the positional relationship information indicating that the gaze position of the first user and the gaze position of the second user are associated with each other, the position presentation unit controls the information providing device to perform the position presentation control.
4. The information processing device according to claim 3, wherein on a basis of the positional relationship information indicating that the gaze position of the first user and the gaze position of the second user are moving in a substantially identical direction, the position presentation unit controls the information providing device to perform the position presentation control.
5. The information processing device according to claim 3, wherein on a basis of the positional relationship information indicating that the gaze position of the first user and the gaze position of the second user are moving substantially simultaneously, the position presentation unit controls the information providing device to perform the position presentation control.
6. The information processing device according to claim 2, wherein on a basis of the positional relationship information indicating that a distance between the gaze position of the first user and the gaze position of the second user is not greater than a specified value, the position presentation unit controls the information providing device to perform the position presentation control.
7. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the input-information acquisition unit acquires the first line-of-sight information as the specified input information, and on a basis of the specified input information indicating that the gaze position of the first user exists at a specified position in the specified object, the position presentation unit controls the information providing device to perform the position presentation control.
8. The information processing device according to claim 7, wherein the specified position in the specified object is an edge portion of the specified object.
9. The information processing device according to claim 7, wherein the specified object is an object that provides specified content, and the specified position in the specified object is a discontinuation position of the specified content at which the first user and the second user are gazing.
10. The information processing device according to claim 9, wherein the specified content is content whose advancement is at least partially prevented until a specified manipulation is input.
11. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the specified object is a playback object that plays back music content or moving content, the input-information acquisition unit acquires the first line-of-sight information as the specified input information, and on a basis of the specified input information indicating that the gaze position of the first user exists on the playback object, the position presentation unit controls the information providing device to perform the position presentation control.
12. The information processing device according to claim 11, wherein the input-information acquisition unit acquires, as the specified input information, the first line-of-sight information in a section of the music content or the moving content, and on a basis of the specified input information indicating that the gaze position of the first user in the section of the music content or the moving content exists on the playback object, the position presentation unit controls the information providing device to perform the position presentation control.
13. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the input-information acquisition unit acquires the first line-of-sight information as the specified input information, and on a basis of the specified input information indicating that the gaze position of the first user has moved to the second user, the position presentation unit controls the information providing device to perform the position presentation control for visualizing the gaze position of the first user before the movement.
14. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the input-information acquisition unit acquires, as the specified input information, sound information regarding sound due to at least one of the first user or the second user, and on a basis of the sound information, the position presentation unit controls the information providing device to perform the position presentation control.
15. The information processing device according to claim 14, wherein on a basis of the sound information including a demonstrative uttered by the first user, the position presentation unit controls the information providing device to perform the position presentation control.
16. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the input-information acquisition unit acquires, as the specified input information, gesture information regarding a gesture of at least one of the first user or the second user, and on a basis of the gesture information, the position presentation unit controls the information providing device to perform the position presentation control.
17. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the information providing device has at least one of an image display function or a sound output function.
18. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the information providing device is capable of displaying at least one of a virtual-reality image or an augmented-reality image.
19. An information processing method that is performed by a computer system, the information processing method comprising: acquiring first line-of-sight information that indicates a gaze position of a first user with respect to a specified object; acquiring specified input information regarding an input performed by at least one of the first user or a second user; and controlling, on a basis of the specified input information, an information providing device to perform a position presentation control for presenting, to the second user, the gaze position of the first user in an invisible state.
20. A program that causes a computer system to perform a process comprising: acquiring first line-of-sight information that indicates a gaze position of a first user with respect to a specified object; acquiring specified input information regarding an input performed by at least one of the first user or a second user; and controlling, on a basis of the specified input information, an information providing device to perform a position presentation control for presenting, to the second user, the gaze position of the first user in an invisible state.
</claims>
</document>
