<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/54,G06F3/0482
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANORGA, JUAN CARLOS
NOVIKOFF, TIMOTHY
WINN, JULIA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65139199
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE SELECTION SUGGESTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Implementations are related to providing image selection suggestions. In some implementations, a method includes receiving first user input indicative of selection of one or more first images in an image library and determining one or more first image characteristics of the one or more first images. The method further includes identifying one or more second images in the image library. Each image of the one or more second images is associated with at least one second image characteristic that matches at least one of the one or more first image characteristics. The method further includes causing a user interface to be displayed. The user interface includes the one or more second images and enables selection of the one or more second images by a user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving first user input indicative of selection of one or more first images in an image library; determining one or more first image characteristics of the one or more first images; identifying one or more second images in the image library, wherein each of the one or more second images is associated with at least one second image characteristic that matches at least one of the one or more first image characteristics; and causing a user interface to be displayed, wherein the user interface includes the one or more second images, and wherein the user interface enables selection of the one or more second images.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving second user input indicative of selection of at least one of the one or more second images; in response to receiving the second user input, determining one or more second image characteristics of the at least one of the one or more second images; identifying one or more third images in the image library, wherein each of the one or more third images is associated with at least one third image characteristic that matches least one of the one or more first image characteristics and at least one of the one or more second image characteristics; and causing an updated user interface to be displayed, wherein the updated user interface includes the one or more third images and wherein the updated user interface enables selection of the one or more third images.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising generating an image album, wherein the image album includes the one or more first images and the at least one of the one or more second images.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving second user input indicative of selection of at least one of the one or more second images; and generating an image collage, wherein the image collage includes the one or more first images and the at least one of the one or more second images.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more first image characteristics comprises determining that at least one of the one or more first images is blurry, and wherein identifying the one or more second images includes identifying each of the one or more second images based on blurriness of the one or more second images.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more first image characteristics comprises determining a location associated with at least one of the one or more first images, and wherein identifying the one or more second images comprises selecting images from the image library that are associated with a respective location that is within a threshold distance of the location associated with the at least one of the one or more first images.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a context of image selection, wherein identifying the one or more second images is based on the context of image selection.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the context of image selection is one of generation of an image-based creation or providing images to a target software application.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the image-based creation comprises at least one of an image album, an image collage, a video, or a printed publication.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more second images are duplicates of at least one of the one or more first images.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving second user input indicative of selection of at least one of the one or more second images; and based on the one or more first images and the at least one of the one or more second images, causing a suggested action element to be displayed in the user interface.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving user selection of the suggested action element; and in response to receiving the user selection, performing an action associated with the suggested action element, wherein the action includes one or more of archiving the one or more first images and the at least one of the one or more second images, deleting the one or more first images and the at least one of the one or more second images, or performing an automatic enhancement of the one or more first images and the at least one of the one or more second images.
13. A method comprising: determining context information indicative of a target software application; based at least in part on the context information, identifying one or more first images in an image library; causing a user interface to be displayed, wherein the user interface includes the one or more first images, and wherein the user interface enables selection of the one or more first images; receiving first user input indicative of selection of at least one image of the one or more first images; and in response to receiving the first user input, providing the at least one image to the target software application.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: determining one or more first image characteristics of the at least one image; identifying one or more second images in the image library, wherein each of the one or more second images has at least one of the one or more first image characteristics; and causing an updated user interface to be displayed, wherein the updated user interface includes the one or more second images, and wherein the user interface enables selection of the one or more second images.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein determining the context information includes determining an application type of the target software application.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the application type includes an image sharing application, and wherein identifying the one or more first images comprises: selecting the one or more first images from the image library that meet a quality threshold.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the application type includes a financial application, and wherein identifying the one or more first images comprises: selecting the one or more first images from the image library, wherein the one or more first images are associated with an image label that includes one or more of receipt, document, or screenshot.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the application type includes a messaging application, and wherein determining the context information further includes receiving identification information of participants in a messaging conversation in the messaging application, and wherein identifying the one or more first images comprises: selecting images from the image library that depict at least one of the participants in the messaging conversation.
19. The method of claim 13, wherein determining the context information comprises receiving an application context from the target software application, and wherein identifying the one or more first images comprises: determining one or more semantic concepts based on the application context; and selecting the one or more first images, wherein at least one image characteristic of each of the one or more first images matches at least one of the one or more semantic concepts.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium with instructions stored thereon that, when executed by one or more hardware processors, cause the one or more hardware processors to perform operations comprising: receiving first user input indicative of selection of one or more first images in an image library; determining one or more first image characteristics of the one or more first images; identifying one or more second images in the image library, wherein each of the one or more second images is associated with at least one second image characteristic that matches at least one of the one or more first image characteristics; causing a user interface to be displayed, wherein the user interface includes the one or more second images, and wherein the user interface enables selection of the one or more second images; receiving second user input indicative of selection of at least one of the one or more second images; based on the one or more first images and the at least one of the one or more second images, causing a suggested action element to be displayed in the user interface; and in response to receiving user selection of the suggested action element, performing an action associated with the suggested action element, wherein the action includes one or more of archiving the one or more first images and the at least one of the one or more second images, deleting the one or more first images and the at least one of the one or more second images, generating an image-based creation that includes the one or more first images and the at least one of the one or more second images, or performing an automatic enhancement of the one or more first images and the at least one of the one or more second images.
</claims>
</document>
