<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/31,G06F21/62,G06Q50/14,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GENESYS TELECOMMUNICATIONS LABORATORIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
Hockeborn, Alexandria
Eberle, Christian
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017469
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MANAGING AND SHARING DATA ACROSS UNAFFILIATED COMPUTING SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for managing and sharing data across a plurality of computing systems of different entities from a central data vault. A computerized set of rules and actions are identified and stored in association with a customer profile in the data vault. The data vault monitors for a trigger event from a first entity selected by the customer as a trusted entity. The data vault determines whether the trigger event is identified in the set of rules and actions stored in association with the customer. In response to identifying the trigger event in the set of rules and actions, the data vault identifies a command from the set of rules and actions corresponding to the trigger event, and transmits the command to a second entity that has also been selected by the customer as being a trusted entity. The command may be for triggering action by the second entity.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for managing and sharing data across a plurality of computing systems, the method comprising: identifying, by a processor, a computerized set of rules and actions; storing, by the processor, the identified set of rules and actions in association with a specific user of a plurality of users; monitoring, by the processor, for a trigger event from a first computing system of the plurality of computing systems, the trigger event including first event data; determining, by the processor, whether the trigger event is identified in the set of rules and actions stored in association with the specific user; in response to determining that the trigger event is identified in the set of rules and actions, identifying, by the processor, a command from the set of rules and actions corresponding to the trigger event; and transmitting, by the processor, the command to a second computing system of the plurality of computing systems, wherein the command includes at least a portion of the first event data, wherein the command is for triggering action by the second computing system.
2. The method of claim 1 claim 1 wherein the identifying, by the processor, the computerized set of rules and actions includes: receiving, by the processor, information on engagements by the specific user with a first entity associated with the first computing system, and a second entity associated with the second computing system; predicting, by the processor, the set of rules and actions correlated to the received information; and recommending, by the processor, the predicted set of rules and actions.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the predicting, by the processor, of the set of rules and actions includes: maintaining, by the processor, a statistical model modeling a correlation between a plurality of inputs and a plurality of sets of rules and actions; providing, by the processor, the information on engagements by the specific user, as input to the statistical model; and selecting, by the processor, the predicted set of rules and actions, wherein the predicted set of rules of actions are predicted to be correlated to the information on engagements by the specific user, within a threshold level of confidence.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the trigger event is generated in response to a first engagement between the specific user and the first computing system, and the first event data includes data associated with the first engagement.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the processor, user selection of a first entity associated with the first computing system, and a second entity associated with the second computing system; authenticating, by the processor, the specific user with each of the first and second entities; and linking the first and second entities to a user profile of the specific user.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the monitoring of the trigger event from the first computing system is in response to the linking of the first entity to the user profile of the specific user.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the set of rules and actions is further linked to the first and second entities without linking to a third entity, the method further comprising; receiving, by the processor, the trigger event from a third computing system of the plurality of computing systems associated with the third entity; and ignoring, by the processor, the received trigger event from the third computing system.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the action triggered via the command is an interaction between the specific user and the second computing system.
9. The method of claim 5, wherein the first computing system includes a server for providing contact center services to customers of the first entity, and the second computing system includes a server for providing contact center services to customers of the second entity.
10. A system for managing and sharing data across a plurality of computing systems, the system comprising: a mass data storage device; a processor coupled to the mass data storage device; and a memory coupled to the processor, the memory providing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: provide a portal accessible to a user, the portal for prompting the user to identify a plurality of entities, each of the plurality of entities being associated with a different computing system of the plurality of computing systems; receive user authentication information for each of the plurality of entities; exchange messages with each of the plurality of entities based on the corresponding user authentication information for authenticating the user to each of the plurality of entities; identify a set of computerized rules and actions involving first and second entities of the plurality of entities; store the identified set of rules and actions in the mass data storage device in association with the user; receive an event from the computing system associated with the first entity, the event being generated in response to a first engagement between the user and the first entity, the event including event data associated with the first engagement; determine whether the event is identified in the set of rules and actions stored in association with the user; in response to determining that the event is identified in the set of rules and actions, identify a command from the set of rules and actions corresponding to the event; and transmit the command to the computing system associated with the second entity, the command including at least a portion of the event data, wherein the command is for triggering action for a second engagement between the user and the second entity.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the instructions that cause the processor to identify the computerized set of rules and actions further include instructions that cause the processor to: receive information on engagements by the specific user with the first and second entities; predict the set of rules and actions correlated to the received information; and recommend the predicted set of rules and actions.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions that cause the processor to predict include instructions that cause the processor to: maintain a statistical model modeling a correlation between a plurality of inputs and a plurality of sets of rules and actions; provide the information on engagements by the specific user, as input to the statistical model; and select the predicted set of rules and actions, wherein the predicted set of rules of actions are predicted to be correlated to the information on engagements by the specific user, within a threshold level of confidence.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: in response to authenticating the user to each of the plurality of entities, link the plurality of entities to a user profile of the user.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the instructions that cause the processor to receive the event from the computing system associated with the first entity is in response to instructions that cause the processor to link the first entity to the user profile of the specific user.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the set of rules and actions is further linked to the first and second entities without linking to a third entity, and the instructions further cause the processor to: receive the trigger event from a third computing system of the plurality of computing systems associated with the third entity; and ignore the received trigger event from the third computing system.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the first computing system includes a server for providing contact center services to customers of the first entity, and the second computing system includes a server for providing contact center services to customers of the second entity.
17. The system of claim 10, wherein the instructions that cause the processor to receive the first event from the first computing system, and the instructions that cause the processor to transmit the command to the second computing system, further include instructions that cause the processor to receive and transmit over an application programming interface.
18. The system of claim 10, wherein the second engagement is for modifying a result of a prior interaction between the user and the second entity.
</claims>
</document>
