<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/31,G06F16/33,G06F16/35,G06F40/169,G06F40/18,G06F40/216,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FREED, ANDREW R.
LA, THAI T.
ALLEN, JOSHUA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69945905
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Information extraction from open-ended schema-less tables
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for generating and annotating cell documents include extracting tables from a document using a table extraction engine. Headers are extracted for each of the tables using a header detection engine. Cells are extracted from each of the tables using a cell extraction engine. A cell document is generated for each of the cells which are each correlated to corresponding portions of the headers, each cell document recording the correlation between the cells and the the headers. Each cell document is annotated to generate annotated cell documents with a cell recognition model trained to perform natural language processing on the cell documents by classifying each term in each of the cell documents and extracting relationships between the terms of each of the cell documents.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for annotating cells of a table for natural language processing, the method comprising: extracting one or more tables from a document using a table extraction engine; extracting headers for each of the one or more tables using a header detection engine by accessing the one or more tables via a memory and returning the tables with the headers to the memory; extracting cells from each of the one or more tables using a cell extraction engine by accessing the one or more tables and the headers via the memory and returning the tables with the headers and the cells to the memory; generating a cell document for each of the cells and correlating each of the cells to corresponding portions of the headers, each cell document recording the correlation between one of the cells and the corresponding portions of the headers; annotating each cell document to generate annotated cell documents with a cell recognition model trained to perform natural language processing on the cell documents by classifying each term in each of the cell documents and extracting relationships between the terms of each of the cell documents; and storing the annotated cell documents in a searchable database.
2. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising extracting relationships between the terms of each of the cell documents includes an extractor configured to perform statistical modelling that takes into account linguistic feature statistics in a domain corresponding to the document.
3. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein recognizing characters in the document includes performing optical character recognition.
4. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising matching one or more of the annotated cell documents to a natural language search query entered into the searchable database.
5. The method as recited in claim 4, further comprising searching the database with a search engine by matching a natural language search query with one or more of the annotated cell documents according to a similarity between concepts of the natural language search query and concepts of each of the one or more of the annotated cell documents.
6. The method as recited in claim 5, further comprising ranking the one or more of the annotated cell documents by determining a relevance of terms in each of the one or more of the annotated cell documents according to a weight corresponding to a part of the table to which each of the terms corresponds.
7. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising training the cell recognition model including: generating annotated training cell documents; and determining an error between the annotated training cell documents and the annotated cell documents.
8. The method as recited in claim 7, wherein training the cell recognition model further includes training the cell recognition model according to a domain by generating the annotated training cell documents with a domain specific dictionary of terms and linguistic features.
9. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein the domain specific dictionary includes an index of synonyms.
10. A method for annotating cells of a table for natural language processing, the method comprising: extracting one or more tables from a document using a table extraction engine; extracting headers for each of the one or more tables using a header detection engine by accessing the one or more tables via a memory and returning the tables with the headers to the memory; extracting cells from each of the one or more tables using a cell extraction engine by accessing the one or more tables and the headers via the memory and returning the tables with the headers and the cells to the memory; generating a cell document for each of the cells and correlating each of the cells to corresponding portions of the headers, each cell document recording the correlation between one of the cells and the corresponding portions of the headers; and annotating each cell document with a cell recognition model trained to perform natural language processing on the cell documents, the annotating including: classifying each term in each of the cell documents with a term classifier; extracting relationships between the terms of each of the cell documents using an extractor configured to perform statistical modelling that takes into account linguistic feature statistics in a domain corresponding to the document; generating annotations to represent the relationships; and inserting the annotations into corresponding ones of the cell documents to form annotated cell documents; and storing the annotated cell documents in a searchable database.
11. The method as recited in claim 10, further comprising recognizing characters in the document by performing optical character recognition.
12. The method as recited in claim 10, further comprising matching one or more of the annotated cell documents to a natural language search query entered into the searchable database.
13. The method as recited in claim 12, further comprising searching the database with a search engine by matching a natural language search query with one or more of the annotated cell documents according to a similarity between concepts of the natural language search query and concepts of each of the one or more of the annotated cell documents.
14. The method as recited in claim 13, further comprising ranking the one or more of the annotated cell documents by determining a relevance of terms in each of the one or more of the annotated cell documents according to a weight corresponding to a part of the table to which each of the terms corresponds.
15. The method as recited in claim 10, further comprising training the cell recognition model including: generating annotated training cell documents; and determining an error between the annotated training cell documents and the annotated cell documents.
16. The method as recited in claim 15, wherein training the cell recognition model further includes training the cell recognition model according to a domain by generating the annotated training cell documents with a domain specific dictionary of terms and linguistic features.
17. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein the domain specific dictionary includes an index of synonyms.
18. A system for annotating cells of a table for natural language processing, the system comprising: a cell document generator that generates cell documents for each cell of each table in a document, the cell document generator including: a table extraction engine that extractions one or more tables from a document; a header detection engine that extracts headers for each of the one or more tables by accessing the one or more tables via a memory and returning the tables with the headers to the memory; and a cell extraction engine that extracts cells from each of the one or more tables and generating a cell document for each of the cells and correlating each of the cells to corresponding portions of the headers, each cell document recording the correlation between one of the cells and the corresponding portions of the headers; and a cell document interpreter that annotates each cell document to generate annotated cell documents with a cell recognition model trained to perform natural language processing on the cell documents by classifying each term in each of the cell documents and extracting relationships between the terms of each of the cell documents.
19. The system as recited in claim 16, wherein the cell document interpreter includes a classifier that recognizes terms in each cell document.
20. The system as recited in claim 16, wherein the cell document interpreter includes an extractor configured to perform statistical modelling that takes into account linguistic feature statistics in a domain corresponding to the document.
</claims>
</document>
