<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/58,H04M3/42,H04M3/527
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PERVIN, SHAILA
ANDRES, JOSH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650837
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MESSAGING SYSTEM FOR AUTOMATICALLY GENERATING SEMANTIC CONTEXTUAL MESSAGES
</title>

<abstract>
A method for automatically generating a semantic contextual message is provided. The method includes: prompting a user to grant access to a plurality of data sources of the user and to a plurality of contacts of the user; prompting the user to set a preference for each contact listing which of the data sources are shareable with the corresponding contact; monitoring a network for an incoming communication from a caller to the user, and determining whether the user is available to receive the incoming communication; identifying one of the contacts associated with the incoming communication, collecting data from the data sources listed by the preference of the identified one contact, and generating a semantic contextual message based on the collected data, when it is determined that the user is not available; and outputting the semantic contextual message across the network to the caller.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A messaging system for responding with an automatically generated semantic contextual message, the system comprising: a network interface configured to interface with a network; a presentation unit configured to present a graphical user interface (GUI) on a display device of a mobile communication device connected to the network, the GUI prompting a user to grant the system access to a plurality of data sources of the user and to a plurality of contacts of the user, and the GUI enabling the user to set a preference for each contact listing which of the data sources are shareable with the corresponding contact and which of the data sources are not shareable with the corresponding contact; a monitoring unit configured to monitor the network for an incoming communication from a caller to the user and determine whether the user is available to receive the incoming call; a message generation unit configured to identify one of the contacts associated with the incoming call, collect data from the data sources listed by the preference of the identified one contact, and generate a semantic contextual message based on the collected data, when it is determined that the user is not available; and output unit configured to output the semantic contextual message across the network to the caller, wherein the collected data includes data from the data sources listed by the preference as being shareable with the corresponding contact and excludes any data from the data sources listed by the preference as not being shareable with the corresponding contact, and each of the data sources is a source located outside the messaging system.
2. The messaging system of claim 1, wherein the message generation unit generates the semantic contextual message by: loading a text statement associated with one of the data sources, the text statement including pre-defined text, an activity placeholder, and a time placeholder; replacing the activity placeholder with information in a record in the collected data captured by the one data source indicating a type of activity performed; and replacing the time placeholder with information in the record indicating a time the activity is performed.
3. The messaging system of claim Error! Reference source not found., wherein: the data sources include a GPS receiver of a mobile device of the user and the data includes a location of the user determined from the GPS receiver.
4. The messaging system of claim Error! Reference source not found., wherein: the data sources include a smart home device or an Internet of things (IOT) device, and the collected data includes an activity of the user determined by the smart home device or the IOT device.
5. The messaging system of claim Error! Reference source not found., wherein: the data sources include a source providing social media data of the user, and the collected data indicates an activity of the user determined from the social media data.
6. The messaging system of claim Error! Reference source not found., wherein: the data sources include a source providing access to a calendar program of the user, and the collected data indicates an activity listed by the calendar program that is scheduled to be performed by the user at a time of the incoming communication.
7. The messaging system of claim Error! Reference source not found., wherein: the data sources include a wearable device of the user, the wearable device includes a medical sensor and the data is medical data sensed by the medical sensor.
8. The messaging system of claim Error! Reference source not found., the message generation unit being further configured to generate the semantic contextual message from a message pre-recorded by the user when the preference indicates that none of the data sources are shareable with the corresponding contact.
9. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing code for responding with an automatically generated semantic contextual message, the code comprising instructions executable by a processor to: prompt a user to grant access to a plurality of data sources of the user and to a plurality of contacts of the user; prompt the user to set a preference for each contact listing which of the data sources are shareable with the corresponding contact and which of the data sources are not shareable with the corresponding contact; monitor a network for an incoming communication from a caller to the user, and determine whether the user is available to receive the incoming communication; identify one of the contacts associated with the incoming communication, collect data from the data sources listed by the preference of the identified one contact, and generate a semantic contextual message based on the collected data, when it is determined that the user is not available; and output the semantic contextual message across the network to the caller, wherein the collected data includes data from the data sources listed by the preference as being shareable with the corresponding contact and excludes any data from the data sources listed by the preference as not being shareable with the corresponding contact, and each of the data sources is a source located outside a messaging system executing the instructions.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the generate of the semantic contextual message comprises: loading a text statement associated with one of the data sources, the text statement including pre-defined text, an activity placeholder, and a time placeholder; replacing the activity placeholder with information in a record in the collected data captured by the one data source indicating a type of activity performed; and replacing the time placeholder with information in the record indicating a time the activity performed.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein: the data sources include a GPS receiver of a mobile device of the user and the data includes a location of the user determined from the GPS receiver.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein: the data sources include a smart home device or an Internet of things (IOT) device, and the data includes an activity of the user determined by the smart home device or the IOT device.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein: the data sources include a source providing social media data of the user, and the collected data indicates an activity of the user determined from the social media data.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein: the data sources include a calendar program of the user, and the collected data indicates an activity listed by the calendar program that is scheduled to be performed by the user at a time of the incoming communication.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein: the data sources include a wearable device of the user, the wearable device includes a medical sensor and the data is medical data sensed by the medical sensor.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, the code further comprising instructions executable by the processor to: generate the semantic contextual message from a message pre-recorded by the user when the preference indicates that none of the data sources are shareable with the corresponding contact.
17. A method for responding with an automatically generated semantic contextual message, comprising: prompting a user to grant access to a plurality of data sources of the user and to a plurality of contacts of the user; prompting the user to set a preference for each contact listing which of the data sources are shareable with the corresponding contact and which of the data sources are not shareable with the corresponding contact; monitoring a network for an incoming communication from a caller to the user, and determining whether the user is available to receive the incoming communication; identifying one of the contacts associated with the incoming call, collecting data from the data sources listed by the preference of the identified one contact, and generating a semantic contextual message based on the collected data, when it is determined that the user is not available; and outputting the semantic contextual message across the network to the caller, wherein the collected data includes data from the data sources listed by the preference as being shareable with the corresponding contact and excludes any data from the data sources listed by the preference as not being shareable with the corresponding contact, and each of the data sources is a source located outside the messaging system.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the generating of the semantic contextual message comprises: loading a text statement associated with one of the data sources, the text statement including pre-defined text, an activity placeholder, and a time placeholder; replacing the activity placeholder with information in a record in the collected data captured by the one data source indicating a type of activity performed; and replacing the time placeholder with information in the record indicating a time the activity performed.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein: the data sources include a GPS receiver of a mobile device of the user and the data includes a location of the user determined from the GPS receiver.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein: the data sources include a smart home device or an Internet of things (IOT) device, and the collected data includes an activity of the user determined by the smart home device or the IOT device.
21. The method of claim 17, wherein: the data sources include a source providing social media data of the user, and the collected data indicates an activity of the user determined from the social media data.
22. The method of claim 17, wherein: the data sources include a calendar program of the user, and the collected data indicates an activity listed by the calendar program that is scheduled to be performed by the user at a time of the incoming communication.
23. The method of claim 17, wherein: the data sources include a wearable device of the user, the wearable device includes a medical sensor and the data is medical data sensed by the medical sensor.
24. The method of claim 17, further comprising:
</claims>
</document>
