<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06K9/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
TUMMALAPENTA, SRINIVAS B.
GIVENTAL, GARY I.
BHATIA, AANKUR
BAATZ, CHADWICK M.
WALLACE, THOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74189495
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTING AND RESPONDING TO AN ANOMALY IN AN EVENT LOG
</title>

<abstract>
A method identifies and prioritizes anomalies in received monitoring logs from an endpoint log source. One or more processors identify anomalies in the monitoring logs by applying a plurality of disparate types of anomaly detection algorithms to the monitoring logs, and then determine a likelihood that the identified anomalies are anomalous based on outputs of the plurality of disparate types of anomaly detection algorithms. The processor(s) then prioritize the monitoring logs based on the likelihood that the identified anomalies are actually anomalous, and send prioritized monitoring logs that exceed a priority level to a security information and event management system (SIEM).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving monitoring logs from an endpoint log source; identifying anomalies in the monitoring logs by applying a plurality of disparate types of anomaly detection algorithms to the monitoring logs; determining a likelihood that the identified anomalies are anomalous based on outputs of the plurality of disparate types of anomaly detection algorithms; prioritizing the monitoring logs based on the likelihood that the identified anomalies are actually anomalous as determined by the outputs of the plurality of disparate types of anomaly detection algorithms; and sending prioritized monitoring logs that exceed a priority level to a security information and event management system (STEM).
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: utilizing unsupervised machine learning to identify the anomalies.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sending prioritized monitoring logs that are below the priority level to an analytics system that uses fewer resources than the SIEM.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of disparate types of anomaly detection algorithms comprise an Isolation Forest algorithm, a clustering algorithm, and a Self-Organizing Map (SOM) algorithm.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the endpoint log source is a sensor in an endpoint device, and wherein the method further comprises: creating a corrective action to correct the identified anomalies in the prioritized monitoring logs for the endpoint device; and sending instructions to a managed security service provider to execute the corrective action.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the endpoint log source is a sensor in an endpoint device, and wherein the method further comprises: training an artificial intelligence system to direct a controller to adjust operations of the endpoint device based on the prioritized monitoring logs that exceed the priority level.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the endpoint log source is a sensor in an endpoint device, and wherein the method further comprises: training an artificial intelligence system to direct a controller to change a functionality of the endpoint device based on the prioritized monitoring logs that exceed the priority level.
8. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, and wherein the program code is readable and executable by a processor to perform a method comprising: receiving monitoring logs from an endpoint log source; identifying anomalies in the monitoring logs by applying a plurality of disparate types of anomaly detection algorithms to the monitoring logs; determining a likelihood that the identified anomalies are anomalous based on outputs of the plurality of disparate types of anomaly detection algorithms; prioritizing the monitoring logs based on the likelihood that the identified anomalies are actually anomalous as determined by the outputs of the plurality of disparate types of anomaly detection algorithms; and sending prioritized monitoring logs that exceed a priority level to a security information and event management system (SIEM).
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the method further comprises: sending prioritized monitoring logs that are below the priority level to an analytics system that uses fewer resources than the SIEM.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the plurality of disparate types of anomaly detection algorithms comprise an Isolation Forest algorithm, a clustering algorithm, and a Self-Organizing Map (SOM) algorithm.
11. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the endpoint log source is a sensor in an endpoint device, and wherein the method further comprises: creating a corrective action to correct the identified anomalies in the prioritized monitoring logs for the endpoint device; and sending instructions to a managed security service provider to execute the corrective action.
12. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the endpoint log source is a sensor in an endpoint device, and wherein the method further comprises: training an artificial intelligence system to direct a controller to adjust operations of the endpoint device based on the prioritized monitoring logs that exceed the priority level.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the program code is provided as a service in a cloud environment.
14. A computer system comprising one or more processors, one or more computer readable memories, and one or more computer readable non-transitory storage mediums, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more computer readable non-transitory storage mediums for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more computer readable memories, the stored program instructions executed to perform a method comprising: receiving monitoring logs from an endpoint log source; identifying anomalies in the monitoring logs by applying a plurality of disparate types of anomaly detection algorithms to the monitoring logs; determining a likelihood that the identified anomalies are anomalous based on outputs of the plurality of disparate types of anomaly detection algorithms; prioritizing the monitoring logs based on the likelihood that the identified anomalies are actually anomalous as determined by the outputs of the plurality of disparate types of anomaly detection algorithms; and sending prioritized monitoring logs that exceed a priority level to a security information and event management system (STEM).
15. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the method further comprises: sending prioritized monitoring logs that are below the priority level to an analytics system that uses fewer resources than the SIEM.
16. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the plurality of disparate types of anomaly detection algorithms comprise an Isolation Forest algorithm, a clustering algorithm, and a Self-Organizing Map (SOM) algorithm.
17. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the endpoint log source is a sensor in an endpoint device, and wherein the method further comprises: creating a corrective action to correct the identified anomalies in the prioritized monitoring logs for the endpoint device; and sending instructions to a managed security service provider to execute the corrective action.
18. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the endpoint log source is a sensor in an endpoint device, and wherein the method further comprises: training an artificial intelligence system to direct a controller to adjust operations of the endpoint device based on the prioritized monitoring logs that exceed the priority level.
19. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the endpoint log source is a sensor in an endpoint device, and wherein the method further comprises: training an artificial intelligence system to direct a controller to change a functionality of the endpoint device based on the prioritized monitoring logs that exceed the priority level.
20. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the stored program instructions are provided as a service in a cloud environment.
</claims>
</document>
