<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,G16H10/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PATIENTORY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MCFARLANE, CHRISSA TANELIA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74065754
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD OF ENHANCING SECURITY OF DATA IN A HEALTH CARE NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
A system and a method of enhancing security of data in a health care network are described. The method includes providing a Health Information Exchange (HIE) server implemented over the blockchain to store users' health information and providing a user device present in communication with the HIE server. Events of accessing a user's health information may be monitored using an Artificial Intelligence (AI) learning module to determine a typical access pattern. All access requests may be compared with the typical access pattern to determine an unusual access behavior corresponding to malicious attempts for breach of the user's health information. The user may be reported about such unusual access behavior to enhance the security of data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of enhancing security of data in a health care network, comprising: a. monitoring, using an artificial intelligence learning module, an access event to a user's health information to determine a typical access pattern, wherein the user's health information is managed by a health information exchange server implemented over a blockchain network; b. comparing an access request to the user's health information with a typical access pattern to determine an unusual access behavior corresponding to malicious attempts to breach the user's health information; and c. reporting to the user an unusual access behaviour, via a user device communicatively coupled with the health information exchange server.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the user's health information comprises blood pressure, heart rate, and number of steps moved per day.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein monitoring an access event to a user's health information comprises parsing a data request to determine a relevant data based on a predefined criterion and sending the relevant data to a historical activity database.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising comparing the access event with a datum stored in an insecure behavior database and storing the access request in the insecure behavior database when the access event matches the datum at least partially.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein comparing an access request with a typical access pattern comprises providing a datum in the access request to a securer module when the datum has no match in an insecure behavior database.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising requesting an additional encrypted key when the access request is not a typical access pattern.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising storing the access request in an insecure behavior database for comparing with a another access request.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising stripping a user information from the access request and sending an alert with a new encryption to the user based on the user information.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising modifying the artificial intelligence learning module based when the access event does not fit a typical access pattern.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising updating an existing correlation with the access request when the access request is identified as an insecure behavior.
11. A system for enhancing security of data in a health care network, comprising: a. one or more processors; and b. a memory communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and storing instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: monitor, using an artificial intelligence learning module, an access event to a user's health information to determine a typical access pattern, wherein the user's health information is managed by a health information exchange server implemented over a blockchain network; compare and match an access request to the user's health information with a typical access pattern to determine an unusual access behavior corresponding to malicious attempts to breach the user's health information; report to the user an unusual access behaviour, via a user device communicatively coupled with the health information exchange server; and compare and match the access event with a datum stored in an insecure behaviour database, and storing the access request in the insecure behaviour database when the access event matches the datum at least partially.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein to compare an access request with a typical access pattern the one or more processors execute instructions to provide a datum in the access request to a securer module when the datum has no match in an insecure behavior database.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors further execute instructions to request an additional encrypted key when the access request is not a typical access pattern.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors further execute instructions to store the access request in an insecure behavior database for comparing with another access request.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors further execute instructions to strip a user information from the access request and to send an alert with a new encryption to the user based on the user information.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors further execute instructions to modify the artificial intelligence learning module based when the access event does not fit a typical access pattern.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors further execute instructions to update an existing correlation with the access request when the access request is identified as an insecure behavior.
18. A non-transitory, computer readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause a computer to perform a method, the method comprising: a. monitoring, using an artificial intelligence learning module, an access event to a user's health information to determine a typical access pattern, wherein the user's health information is managed by a health information exchange server implemented over a blockchain network; b. comparing an access request to the user's health information with a typical access pattern to determine an unusual access behavior corresponding to malicious attempts to breach the user's health information; c. reporting to the user an unusual access behaviour, via a user device communicatively coupled with the health information exchange server; and d. comprising comparing the access event with a datum stored in an insecure behaviour database, and storing the access request in the insecure behaviour database when the access event matches the datum at least partially.
19. The non-transitory, computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein monitoring an access event to a user's health information comprises parsing a data request to determine a relevant data based on a predefined criterion and sending the relevant data to a historical activity database.
20. The non-transitory, computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein comparing an access request with a typical access pattern comprises providing a datum in the access request to a securer module when the datum has no match in an insecure behavior database.
</claims>
</document>
