<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/23,G06N3/04,G06N3/063,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACET LABS
</assignee>

<inventors>
OGAWA, STUART
SO, WILFRED P.
NISHIMURA, KOICHI
SPARKS, LINDSAY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64741907
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT ENDPOINT SYSTEMS FOR MANAGING EXTREME DATA
</title>

<abstract>
A system and methods are provided that can make distributed and autonomous decision science based recommendations, decisions, and actions that increasingly become smarter and faster over time. The system can comprise intelligent computing devices and components (i.e., Intelligent Endpoint Systems) at the edge or endpoints of the network (e.g., user devices or IoT devices). Each of these Intelligent Endpoint Systems can optionally have the ability to transmit and receive new data or decision science, software, data, and metadata to other intelligent devices and third party components and devices so that data or decision science, whether real-time or near real-time, batch, or manual processing, can be updated and data or decision science driven queries, recommendations and autonomous actions can be broadcasted to other Intelligent Endpoint Systems and third party systems in real-time or near real-time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for managing vast amounts of data to provide distributed and autonomous decision based actions, the system comprising multiple Intelligent Endpoint Systems that are in communication with each other, each Intelligent Endpoint System comprising: memory that stores data science algorithms and local data that is first created, captured or sensed by the each Intelligent Endpoint System; one or more processors that at least perform localized decision science using the data science algorithms to process the local data to determine whether or not the local data is a known known, and to discard the local data from the memory after identifying that it is the known known; and, a communication device that communicates with other Intelligent Endpoint Systems in relation to one or more of: the data science algorithms, the determining of whether or not the local data is the known known, and an anomalous result pertaining to the local data.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more processors of the each Intelligent Endpoint System convert the local data to microcode and the communication device transmits the microcode to the other Intelligent Endpoint Systems.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more processors of the each Intelligent Endpoint System convert the one or more data science algorithms to microcode and the communication device of the each Intelligent Endpoint System transmits the microcode to the other Intelligent Endpoint Systems.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein the memory or the one or more processors, or both, are flashable with one or more new data science algorithms.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein an immutable ledger is distributed in the memory amongst the multiple Intelligent Endpoint Systems.
6. The system of claim 5 wherein the local data is biological-related data or biometric data that is stored on the immutable ledger.
7. The system of claim 5 wherein the local data is manufacturing data that is stored on the immutable ledger.
8. The system of claim 5 is part of a processing system for human-consumables, and the local data pertains to a given human-consumable and the local data is stored on the immutable ledger.
9. The system of claim 5 wherein each one of the multiple Intelligent Endpoint Systems is a satellite and the local data is satellite data that is stored on the immutable ledger.
10. The system of claim 1 wherein at least one of the Intelligent Endpoint Systems is a brain-computer interface.
11. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more processors comprises a neuromorphic chip.
12. The system of claim 1 wherein the each Intelligent Endpoint System further comprises one or more sensors for collecting the local data and one or more actuators controllable by the one or more processors.
13. The system of claim 1 wherein the multiple Intelligent Endpoint Systems are components of an electric power production plant, and the local data pertains to operation and performance of the electric power production plant.
14. The system of claim 1 wherein the multiple Intelligent Endpoint Systems are components of a water treatment plant, and the local data pertains to operation and performance of the water treatment plant.
15. The system of claim 1 is storing a graph database, wherein: multiple nodes of the graph database respectively correspond to the multiple Intelligent Endpoint Systems; data stored on each of the nodes is physically stored on the respectively corresponding Intelligent Endpoint Systems; and edges of the graph database between the multiple nodes reflect the data communication links between the respectively corresponding Intelligent Endpoint Systems.
16. The system of claim 1 further comprising an Endpoint dispenser that dispenses one or more new Intelligent Endpoint Systems.
17. The system of claim 16 wherein the Endpoint dispenser comprises a container that stores the one or more new Intelligent Endpoint Systems that are to be dispensed.
18. The system of claim 1 wherein the each Intelligent Endpoint System has dimensions of approximately 5 mm×5 mm or less.
19. The system of claim 1 wherein: a first subset of the multiple Intelligent Endpoint Systems implement a first neural network; a second subset of the multiple Intelligent Endpoint Systems implement a second neural network; outputs from the first neural network are transmitted from the first subset to the second subset; and the second subset receives and uses the outputs as inputs to the second neural network.
20. The system of claim 19 wherein the first neural network is a generator neural network; the second neural network is a discriminator neural network; the second subset of the multiple Intelligent Endpoint Systems obtain, capture, or sense real data as additional inputs to the second neural network; and a combination of the first subset and the second subset of the multiple Intelligent Endpoint Systems implement a generative adversarial network.
21. The system of claim 1 wherein the multiple Intelligent Endpoint Systems are provisioned at one or more locations where the local data is first created, captured or sensed.
22. The system of claim 21 wherein the multiple Intelligent Endpoint Systems are provisioned by physically inserting or dispensing the multiple Intelligent Endpoint Systems at the one or more locations.
23. The system of claim 21 wherein the one or more locations are digital locations.
24. A system for managing vast amounts of data to provide distributed and autonomous decision based actions on Intelligent Endpoint Systems, comprising: a remote computer system configured to request local data from an Intelligent Endpoint System via a computer network, wherein the Intelligent Endpoint System is among the plurality of Intelligent Endpoint Systems connected to the computer network; and the Intelligent Endpoint System inserted at a point where the requested local data is first created or obtained, wherein the plurality of Intelligent Endpoint Systems are configured to perform localized data science related to the local data, prior to transmitting the requested local data to the remote computer system.
25. The system of claim 24, wherein the plurality of Intelligent Endpoint Systems are configured to create local data.
26. The system of claim 24, wherein the plurality of Intelligent Endpoint Systems comprise databases to store data science algorithms.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the databases are configured to be updated via the computer network.
28. The system of claim 24, wherein the plurality of Intelligent Endpoint Systems further comprises a second Intelligent Endpoint System, and wherein the Intelligent Endpoint System is configured to ping or query the second Intelligent Endpoint System to obtain data or metadata associated with the requested local data.
29. The system of claim 24, wherein performing the localized data science comprises determining whether the local data is a known known or a duplicate.
30. The system of claim 29, wherein performing the localized data science further comprises discarding the known known local data before transmitting the data over the computer network.
</claims>
</document>
