<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FARCHI EITAN
ZALMANOVICI, MARCEL
RAZ, ORNA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72917243
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IDENTIFYING DATA DRIFTS THAT HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON PREDICTORS
</title>

<abstract>
A method, apparatus and product for identifying data drifts. The method comprising: obtaining a baseline dataset of instances in a feature space, each of wherein being associated with a label; determining a set of clusters in the feature space, based on the baseline dataset; determining a baseline distribution of instances over the set of clusters based on the baseline dataset; for each cluster, computing a performance metric for a predictor for the each cluster, wherein the predictor is configured to estimate an estimated label for an instance, wherein the performance metric is indicative of a successful estimation of the predictor to a portion of the baseline dataset that is comprised by the cluster; obtaining a second dataset, wherein the second dataset comprising instances in the feature space; determining a second distribution of instances over the set of clusters, wherein said determining the second distribution is based on the second dataset; and based on the second distribution and on the baseline distribution, and based on at least one performance metric of at least one the cluster of the set of clusters, identifying a data drift in the second dataset with respect to the baseline dataset.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining a baseline dataset, wherein the baseline dataset comprising a first set of instances, each instance comprising feature values in a feature space, wherein each instance of the first set of instances is associated with a label; determining a set of clusters in the feature space, based on the feature values of the first set of instances; determining a baseline distribution of instances over the set of clusters, wherein said determining the baseline distribution is based on the baseline dataset; for each cluster, computing a performance metric for a predictor for the each cluster, wherein the predictor is configured to estimate an estimated label for an instance, wherein the performance metric is indicative of a successful estimation of the predictor to a portion of the first set of instances that are comprised by the each cluster; obtaining a second dataset, wherein the second dataset comprising a second set of instances, each of which comprising feature values in the feature space; determining a second distribution of instances over the set of clusters, wherein said determining the second distribution is based on the second dataset; and based on the second distribution and on the baseline distribution, and based on at least one performance metric of at least one the cluster of the set of clusters, identifying a data drift in the second dataset with respect to the baseline dataset.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said obtaining the second dataset is performed using a hardware device; and wherein said method further comprises: in response to identifying the data drift, replacing the hardware device.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the predictor is trained using a training dataset, wherein the training dataset comprises training instances and labels thereof; wherein said method further comprises: in response to identifying the data drift, determining a new training dataset, wherein the new training dataset comprises at least a portion of the second dataset, wherein each instance in the new training dataset has a corresponding label; and training the predictor using the new training dataset.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said determining the set of clusters is performed using a first clustering function; wherein the method further comprises: determining a second set of clusters in the feature space, based on the feature values of the first set of instances, wherein said determining the second set of clusters is performed using a second clustering function; determining a second baseline distribution of instances over the second set of clusters, wherein said determining the second baseline distribution is based on the baseline dataset; for each cluster in the second set of clusters, computing the performance metric for the predictor for the each cluster; and determining a second actual distribution of instances over the second set of clusters, wherein said determining the second actual distribution is based on the second dataset.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein said identifying the data drift is further based on the second baseline distribution and based on the second actual distribution, whereby said identifying identifies data drifts that manifest in both the set of clusters and the second set of cluster, whereby potentially reducing a false positive identification rate of data drifts.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein said identifying the data drift is performed irrespective to the second set of clusters, whereby a probability that the data drift is identified is increased in comparison to identification that is based on the data drift manifesting in both the set of clusters and the second set of clusters.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the performance metric is selected from a group consisting of: a F1 score metric, an accuracy metric, a R-squared metric, and a Root Mean Square Error (RSME) metric.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the baseline dataset is used for testing prediction accuracy of the predictor.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the second dataset is a production dataset; wherein the predictor is trained using the baseline dataset; and wherein the method further comprises predicting, using the predictor, a label for an instance that is comprised by the production dataset.
10. A computerized apparatus having a processor and coupled memory, the processor being adapted to perform: obtaining a baseline dataset, wherein the baseline dataset comprising a first set of instances, each instance comprising feature values in a feature space, wherein each instance of the first set of instances is associated with a label; determining a set of clusters in the feature space, based on the feature values of the first set of instances; determining a baseline distribution of instances over the set of clusters, wherein said determining the baseline distribution is based on the baseline dataset; for each cluster, computing a performance metric for a predictor for the each cluster, wherein the predictor is configured to estimate an estimated label for an instance, wherein the performance metric is indicative of a successful estimation of the predictor to a portion of the first set of instances that are comprised by the each cluster; obtaining a second dataset, wherein the second dataset comprising a second set of instances, each of which comprising feature values in the feature space; determining a second distribution of instances over the set of clusters, wherein said determining the second distribution is based on the second dataset; and based on the second distribution and on the baseline distribution, and based on at least one performance metric of at least one the cluster of the set of clusters, identifying a data drift in the second dataset with respect to the baseline dataset.
11. The computerized apparatus of claim 10, wherein said obtaining the second dataset is performed using a hardware device; and wherein said processor being further adapted to perform: in response to identifying the data drift, replacing the hardware device.
12. A non-transitory computer readable medium retaining program instructions, which program instructions when read by a processor, cause the processor to perform: obtaining a baseline dataset, wherein the baseline dataset comprising a first set of instances, each instance comprising feature values in a feature space, wherein each instance of the first set of instances is associated with a label; determining a set of clusters in the feature space, based on the feature values of the first set of instances; determining a baseline distribution of instances over the set of clusters, wherein said determining the baseline distribution is based on the baseline dataset; for each cluster, computing a performance metric for a predictor for the each cluster, wherein the predictor is configured to estimate an estimated label for an instance, wherein the performance metric is indicative of a successful estimation of the predictor to a portion of the first set of instances that are comprised by the each cluster; obtaining a second dataset, wherein the second dataset comprising a second set of instances, each of which comprising feature values in the feature space; determining a second distribution of instances over the set of clusters, wherein said determining the second distribution is based on the second dataset; and based on the second distribution and on the baseline distribution, and based on at least one performance metric of at least one the cluster of the set of clusters, identifying a data drift in the second dataset with respect to the baseline dataset.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein said obtaining the second dataset is performed using a hardware device; and wherein said program instructions when read by a processor, further causes the processor to perform: in response to identifying the data drift, replacing the hardware device.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the predictor is trained using a training dataset, wherein the training dataset comprises training instances and labels thereof; wherein said program instructions when read by a processor, further causes the processor to perform: in response to identifying the data drift, determining a new training dataset, wherein the new training dataset comprises at least a portion of the second dataset, wherein each instance in the new training dataset has a corresponding label; and training the predictor using the new training dataset.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein said determining the set of clusters is performed using a first clustering function; wherein said program instructions when read by a processor, further causes the processor to perform: determining a second set of clusters in the feature space, based on the feature values of the first set of instances, wherein said determining the second set of clusters is performed using a second clustering function; determining a second baseline distribution of instances over the second set of clusters, wherein said determining the second baseline distribution is based on the baseline dataset; for each cluster in the second set of clusters, computing the performance metric for the predictor for the each cluster; and determining a second actual distribution of instances over the second set of clusters, wherein said determining the second actual distribution is based on the second dataset.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein said identifying the data drift is further based on the second baseline distribution and based on the second actual distribution, whereby said identifying identifies data drifts that manifest in both the set of clusters and the second set of cluster, whereby potentially reducing a false positive identification rate of data drifts.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein said identifying the data drift is performed irrespective to the second set of clusters, whereby a probability that the data drift is identified is increased in comparison to identification that is based on the data drift manifesting in both the set of clusters and the second set of clusters.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the performance metric is selected from a group consisting of: a F1 score metric, an accuracy metric, a R-squared metric, and a Root Mean Square Error (RSME) metric.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the baseline dataset is used for testing prediction accuracy of the predictor.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the second dataset is a production dataset; wherein the predictor is trained using the baseline dataset; and wherein said program instructions when read by a processor, further causes the processor to perform: predicting, using the predictor, a label for an instance that is comprised by the production dataset.
</claims>
</document>
