<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/907,G06F40/205,G06F40/284,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HRL LABORATORIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUBER, DAVID J.
JAMMALAMADAKA, ARUNA
JOHNSON, SAMUEL D.
KIM, HYUN J.
LU, TSAI-CHING
STEPP, NIGEL D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69024728
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR HUMAN-MACHINE HYBRID PREDICTION OF EVENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A method for generating human-machine hybrid predictions of answers to forecasting problems includes: parsing text of an individual forecasting problem to identify keywords; generating machine models based on the keywords; scraping data sources based on the keywords to collect scraped data relevant to the individual forecasting problem; providing the scraped data to the machine models; receiving machine predictions of answers to the individual forecasting problem from the machine models based on the scraped data; providing, by the computer system via a user interface, the scraped data to human participants; receiving, by the computer system via the user interface, human predictions of answers to the individual forecasting problem from the human participants; aggregating the machine predictions with the human predictions to generate aggregated predictions; and generating and outputting a hybrid prediction based on the aggregated predictions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating human-machine hybrid predictions of answers to forecasting problems, comprising: parsing, by a computer system, text of an individual forecasting problem (IFP) to identify a plurality of keywords; generating, by the computer system, one or more machine models based on the keywords; scraping, by the computer system, one or more data sources based on the keywords to collect scraped data relevant to the individual forecasting problem; providing, by the computer system, the scraped data to the one or more machine models; receiving, by the computer system, one or more machine predictions of answers to the individual forecasting problem from the one or more machine models based on the scraped data; providing, by the computer system via a user interface, the scraped data to one or more human participants; receiving, by the computer system via the user interface, one or more human predictions of answers to the individual forecasting problem from the one or more human participants; aggregating, by the computer system, the one or more machine predictions with the one or more human predictions to generate aggregated predictions; and generating and outputting, by the computer system, a hybrid prediction based on the aggregated predictions.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing the keywords to the human participants via the user interface; and receiving votes on the keywords from the human participants via the user interface, wherein the scraping the data sources is performed in accordance with the votes on the keywords.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying a machine prediction computed by a machine model of the one or more machine models to a human participant of the one or more human participants via the user interface.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving one or more human participant rationales, each corresponding to one of the one or more human predictions; and displaying the one or more human participant rationales in the user interface in association with the corresponding human predictions.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: scraping, by the computer system, the one or more data sources based on the keywords to collect new scraped data relevant to the individual forecasting problem; and detecting a significant change in the new scraped data compared to the scraped data.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising, in response to detecting the significant change in the new scraped data compared to the scraped data: providing the new scraped data to the one or more machine models; and receiving one or more updated machine predictions from the one or more machine models based on the new scraped data.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising, in response to detecting the significant change in the new scraped data compared to the scraped data: alerting the one or more human participants regarding the new scraped data; displaying the new scraped data to the one or more human participants; and receiving one or more updated human predictions from the one or more human participants.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the individual forecasting problem is assigned to the one or more human participants of a plurality of human participants by: computing a participant skill vector for each of the plurality of human participants based on a plurality of prior responses to a plurality of prior individual forecasting problems; comparing the participant skill vector of each of the plurality of human participants to the individual forecasting problem to compute a plurality of participant-IFP match scores; identifying a plurality of participant-IFP match scores satisfying a threshold; and assigning the individual forecasting problem to the one or more human participants, wherein the participant-IFP match scores corresponding to the one or more human participants satisfy the threshold.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating the hybrid prediction comprises: applying weights to the one or more human predictions and the one or more machine predictions to compute weighted human predictions and weighted machine predictions; and computing the hybrid prediction based on a combination of the weighted human predictions and the weighted machine predictions.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the computing the hybrid prediction comprises supplying the one or more human predictions and the one or more machine predictions to an artificial neural network configured with the weights.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving, by the computer system from the one or more machine models, one or more machine confidence scores, each of the machine confidence scores corresponding to one of the one or more machine predictions; and receiving, by the computer system via the user interface, from the one or more human participants, one or more participant confidence scores, each of the participant confidence scores corresponding to one of the one or more human predictions, wherein each of the weights associated with the one or more machine predictions is computed based on a corresponding one of the machine confidence scores, and wherein each of the weights associated with the one or more human predictions is computed based on a corresponding one of the participant confidence scores.
12. A computer system for generating human-machine hybrid predictions of answers to forecasting problems, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer memory units storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: parse text of an individual forecasting problem (IFP) to identify a plurality of keywords; generate one or more machine models based on the keywords; scrape one or more data sources based on the keywords to collect scraped data relevant to the individual forecasting problem; provide the scraped data to the one or more machine models; receive one or more machine predictions of answers to the individual forecasting problem from the one or more machine models based on the scraped data; provide, via a user interface in communication with the one or more processors, the scraped data to one or more human participants; receive, via the user interface, one or more human predictions from the one or more human participants; aggregate the one or more machine predictions with the one or more human predictions to generate aggregated predictions; and generate and output a hybrid prediction based on the aggregated predictions.
13. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the one or more computer memory units further store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the processor to: providing the keywords to the human participants via the user interface; and receiving votes on the keywords from the human participants via the user interface, wherein the scraping the data sources is performed in accordance with the votes on the keywords.
14. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the one or more computer memory units further store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the processor to display a machine prediction computed by a machine model of the one or more machine models to a human participant of the one or more human participants via the user interface.
15. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the one or more computer memory units further store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the processor to: receive one or more human participant rationales, each corresponding to one of the one or more human predictions; and display the one or more human participant rationales in the user interface in association with the corresponding human predictions.
16. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the one or more computer memory units further store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the processor to: scrape the one or more data sources based on the keywords to collect new scraped data relevant to the individual forecasting problem; and detect a significant change in the new scraped data compared to the scraped data.
17. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the one or more computer memory units further store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the processor to, in response to detecting the significant change in the new scraped data compared to the scraped data: provide the new scraped data to the one or more machine models; and receive one or more updated machine predictions from the one or more machine models based on the new scraped data.
18. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the one or more computer memory units further store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the processor to, in response to detecting the significant change in the new scraped data compared to the scraped data: alert the one or more human participants regarding the new scraped data; display the new scraped data to the one or more human participants; and receive one or more updated human predictions from the one or more human participants.
19. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the individual forecasting problem is assigned to the one or more human participants of a plurality of human participants by: computing a participant skill vector for each of the plurality of human participants based on a plurality of prior responses to a plurality of prior individual forecasting problems; comparing the participant skill vector of each of the plurality of human participants to the individual forecasting problem to compute a plurality of participant-IFP match scores; identifying a plurality of participant-IFP match scores satisfying a threshold; and assigning the individual forecasting problem to the one or more human participants, wherein the participant-IFP match scores corresponding to the one or more human participants satisfy the threshold.
20. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the instructions that cause the processor to generate the hybrid prediction comprise instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: apply weights to the one or more human predictions and the one or more machine predictions to compute weighted human predictions and weighted machine predictions; and compute the hybrid prediction based on a combination of the weighted human predictions and the weighted machine predictions.
21. The computer system of claim 20, wherein the one or more computer memory units further store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the processor to compute the hybrid prediction by supplying the one or more human predictions and the one or more machine predictions to an artificial neural network configured with the weights.
22. The computer system of claim 20, wherein the one or more computer memory units further store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the processor to: receive, by the computer system from the one or more machine models, one or more machine confidence scores, each of the machine confidence scores corresponding to one of the one or more machine predictions; and receive, by the computer system via the user interface, from the one or more human participants, one or more participant confidence scores, each of the participant confidence scores corresponding to one of the one or more human predictions, wherein each of the weights associated with the one or more machine predictions is computed based on a corresponding one of the machine confidence scores, and wherein each of the weights associated with the one or more human predictions is computed based on a corresponding one of the participant confidence scores.
23. A non-transitory computer readable medium having program instructions stored thereon that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: parse text of an individual forecasting problem (IFP) to identify a plurality of keywords; generate one or more machine models based on the keywords; scrape one or more data sources based on the keywords to collect scraped data relevant to the individual forecasting problem; provide the scraped data to the one or more machine models; receive one or more machine predictions of answers to the individual forecasting problem from the one or more machine models based on the scraped data; provide, via a user interface in communication with the one or more processors, the scraped data to one or more human participants; receive, via the user interface, one or more human predictions from the one or more human participants; aggregate the one or more machine predictions with the one or more human predictions to generate aggregated predictions; and generate and output a hybrid prediction based on the aggregated predictions.
</claims>
</document>
