<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B3/00,A61B3/10,A61F9/008,G16H10/60,G16H20/30,G16H30/40,G16H40/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NOVARTIS
</assignee>

<inventors>
HEEREN, TAMMO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61011901
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PERFORMING OPHTHALMIC PROCEDURES REMOVING UNDESIRABLE FEATURES USING LASER ENERGY
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system perform an ophthalmic procedure on an eye having an optical path from the lens to the retina. An image of at least part of the eye is received in a data processing unit. The image includes the optical path. The data processing unit determines keep out zone(s) and identifies undesirable feature(s) based on the image. The keep out zone(s) include the retina. The data processing unit also selects one of the undesirable feature(s) for removal. At least part of the undesirable feature is outside of the keep out zone(s). Confirmation for removal of the undesirable feature is received in the data processing unit. In response to receiving the confirmation, a control unit controls a laser to perform laser removal the at least the portion of the undesirable feature without targeting any portion of the keep out zone(s).
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for performing an ophthalmic procedure on an eye including a lens and a retina, the eye having an optical path from the lens to the retina, the method comprising: receiving an image of at least a portion of the eye in a data processing unit of an ophthalmic laser system including the data processing unit and a control unit, the portion of the eye including the optical path; determining, using the data processing unit, at least one keep out zone based on the image , the at least one keep out zone including the retina; identifying, using the data processing unit, at least one undesirable feature based on the image; selecting, using the data processing unit, an undesirable feature of the at least one undesirable feature for removal, at least a portion of the undesirable feature residing outside of the at least one keep out zone; receiving confirmation for removal of the undesirable feature in the data processing unit; and in response to receiving the confirmation, controlling a laser via the control unit to perform laser removal of the at least the portion of the undesirable feature without targeting any portion of the at least one keep out zone.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising repeating the steps of receiving confirmation and controlling the laser until the undesirable feature is removed.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one undesirable feature is at least one vitreous opacity.
4. The method of claim 1 further comprising iteratively repeating the steps of receiving the image, determining the at least one keep out zone, identifying the at least one undesirable feature, selecting the undesirable feature, receiving confirmation, and controlling the laser.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of selecting the undesirable feature includes ranking the at least one undesirable feature based on a plurality of factors including size, location, density and shape.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of controlling the laser further includes: setting a target of the laser within the at least the portion of the undesirable feature; firing the laser such that the target is within the at least the portion of the undesirable feature; and tracking a remaining portion of the undesirable feature.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of determining the at least one keep out zone further includes: identifying the retina from the image; determining a region within a particular distance of the retina; and setting the region as a keep out zone.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein the distance is not more than two millimeters.
9. The method of claim 1 further comprising allowing a user to override the at least one keep out zone such that the laser removal may be performed within a portion of the at least one keep out zone, the portion of the at least one keep out zone excluding the retina.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of receiving the image data further includes: using the control unit to control an imaging system to capture the image; and providing the image from the imaging system to the data processing unit.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable medium containing program instructions for performing an ophthalmic procedure on an eye including a lens and a retina, the eye having an optical path from the lens to the retina, the program instructions for: receiving an image of at least a portion of the eye in a data processing unit of an ophthalmic surgical system including the data processing unit and a control unit, the portion of the eye including the optical path; determining, using the data processing unit, at least one keep out zone based on the image , the at least one keep out zone including the retina; identifying, using the data processing unit, at least one undesirable feature based on the image; selecting, using the data processing unit, an undesirable feature of the at least one undesirable feature for removal, at least a portion of the undesirable feature residing outside of the at least one keep out zone; receiving confirmation for removal of the undesirable feature in the data processing unit; and in response to receiving the confirmation, controlling a laser via the control unit to perform laser removal of the at least the portion of the undesirable feature without targeting any portion of the at least one keep out zone.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11 wherein the program instructions further include instructions for repeating the steps of receiving confirmation and controlling the laser until the undesirable feature is removed.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11 wherein the program further includes instructions for iteratively repeating the steps of receiving the image, determining the at least one keep out zone, identifying the at least one undesirable feature, selecting the undesirable feature, receiving confirmation, and controlling the laser.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11 wherein the instructions for controlling the laser further includes instructions for: setting a target of the laser within the at least the portion of the undesirable feature; firing the laser such that the target is within the at least the portion of the undesirable feature; and tracking a remaining portion of the undesirable feature.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11 wherein the instructions for determining the at least one keep out zone further includes instructions for: identifying the retina from the image; determining a region within a particular distance of the retina; and setting the region as a keep out zone.
16. A system for performing an ophthalmic procedure on an eye including a lens and a retina, the eye having an optical path from the lens to the retina, the system comprising: a laser; a data processing operable to: receive an image of at least a portion of the eye; determine at least one keep out zone based on the image, the at least one keep out zone including the retina; identify at least one undesirable feature based on the image; select an undesirable feature of the at least one undesirable feature for removal, at least a portion of the undesirable feature residing outside of the at least one keep out zone; a control unit coupled with the laser and the data processing unit, the control unit operable to control the laser to perform laser removal the at least the portion of the undesirable feature without targeting any portion of the at least one keep out zone.
17. The system of claim 16 wherein the at least one undesirable feature is at least one vitreous opacity.
18. The system of claim 16 wherein the control unit is further operable to set a target of the laser within the at least the portion of the undesirable feature and fires the laser such that the target is within the at least the portion of the undesirable feature.
19. The system of claim 18 wherein the data processing unit further operable to track a remaining portion of the undesirable feature in response to the laser being fired.
20. The system of claim 16, further comprising an imaging system coupled with the control unit and the data processing unit, the imaging system operable to capture the image.
</claims>
</document>
