<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L27/26,H04W28/06,H04W72/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CARIOU, LAURENT
CAVALCANTI, DAVE
FANG JUAN
PEREZ-RAMIREZ, JAVIER
Galeev, Mikhail
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73231088
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDIUM ACCESS CONTROL LAYER TRANSMISSION OPPORTUNITY PREEMPTION FOR WI-FI
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure describes systems, methods, and devices related to medium access control (MAC) layer preemptable transmission opportunities. A device may identify a MAC layer frame to be transmitted during a transmission opportunity. The device may determine that the MAC layer frame is a preemption frame. The device may identify a preemptable frame to be transmitted during the transmission opportunity. The device may send the preemption frame during the transmission opportunity, and may send the preemptable frame after the transmission opportunity has concluded, wherein to send the preemptable frame includes preempting transmission of the preemptable frame during the transmission opportunity based on the determination that the MAC layer frame is a preemption frame.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, the device comprising processing circuitry coupled to storage, the processing circuitry configured to: identify a medium access control (MAC) layer frame to be transmitted during a transmission opportunity; determine that the MAC layer frame is a preemption frame; identify a preemptable frame to be transmitted during the transmission opportunity; cause to send the preemption frame during the transmission opportunity; and cause to send the preemptable frame after the transmission opportunity has concluded, wherein to cause to send the preemptable frame comprises to preempt transmission of the preemptable frame during the transmission opportunity based on the determination that the MAC layer frame is a preemption frame.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the preemption frame is a first preemption frame, and wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: identify a second preemption frame to be transmitted during the transmission opportunity; and cause to send the second preemption frame during the transmission opportunity.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: cause storage of the preemptable frame in a first buffer; and cause storage of the preemption frame in a second buffer, wherein to determine that the MAC layer frame is a preemption frame comprises to determine that the second buffer comprises the MAC layer frame.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to determine a transmission deadline associated with the MAC layer frame, wherein to determine that the MAC layer frame is a preemption frame is based on the transmission deadline.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to determine an arrival deadline associated with the MAC layer frame, wherein to determine that the MAC layer frame is a preemption frame is based on the arrival deadline.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the device is an access point device, wherein the preemptable frame is a downlink frame, and wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: cause to send a trigger frame associated with causing a station device to send a second preemptive frame to the access point device; and identify the second preemptive frame received from the station device before causing to send the preemptable frame.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein to cause to send the preemption frame comprises to cause to send an aggregated MAC frame comprising the preemption frame and at least one additional frame.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: identify a second preemptable frame to be transmitted during the transmission opportunity; determine that a size of the second preemptable frame fails to exceed a size threshold; and cause to send, based on the determination that the size fails to exceed the size threshold, the second preemptable frame during the transmission opportunity before causing to send the preemption frame.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to determine that a size of the preemptable frame exceeds a size threshold, wherein to preempt the transmission of the preemptable frame is based on the determination that the size exceeds the size threshold.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: identify a second preemptable frame to be transmitted during the transmission opportunity; determine a guard interval time during the transmission opportunity and preceding the transmission of the preemption frame; and cause to send the second preemptable frame during the transmission opportunity before the guard interval time.
11. The device of claim 1, further comprising a transceiver configured to transmit and receive wireless signals, the wireless signals including the preemption frame and the preemptable frame.
12. The device of claim 11, further comprising an antenna coupled to the transceiver to cause to send the wireless signals.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing computer-executable instructions which when executed by one or more processors result in performing operations comprising: identifying a medium access control (MAC) layer frame to be transmitted during a transmission opportunity; determining that the MAC layer frame is a preemption frame; identifying a preemptable frame to be transmitted during the transmission opportunity; causing to send the preemption frame during the transmission opportunity; and causing to send the preemptable frame after the transmission opportunity has concluded, wherein causing to send the preemptable frame comprises preempting transmission of the preemptable frame during the transmission opportunity based on the determination that the MAC layer frame is a preemption frame.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the preemption frame is a first preemption frame, the operations further comprising: identifying a second preemption frame to be transmitted during the transmission opportunity; and causing to send the second preemption frame during the transmission opportunity.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, the operations further comprising: causing storage of the preemptable frame in a first buffer; and causing storage of the preemption frame in a second buffer, wherein determining that the MAC layer frame is a preemption frame comprises determining that the second buffer comprises the MAC layer frame.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, the operations further comprising determining a transmission deadline associated with the MAC layer frame, wherein determining that the MAC layer frame is a preemption frame is based on the transmission deadline.
17. A method comprising: identifying, by processing circuitry of a device, a medium access control (MAC) layer frame to be transmitted during a transmission opportunity; determining, by the processing circuitry, that the MAC layer frame is a preemption frame; identifying, by the processing circuitry, a preemptable frame to be transmitted during the transmission opportunity; causing to send, by the processing circuitry, the preemption frame during the transmission opportunity; and causing to send, by the processing circuitry, the preemptable frame after the transmission opportunity has concluded, wherein causing to send the preemptable frame comprises preempting transmission of the preemptable frame during the transmission opportunity based on the determination that the MAC layer frame is a preemption frame.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the preemption frame is a first preemption frame, the method further comprising: identifying a second preemption frame to be transmitted during the transmission opportunity; and causing to send the second preemption frame during the transmission opportunity.
19. The method of claim 17, the method further comprising: causing storage of the preemptable frame in a first buffer; and causing storage of the preemption frame in a second buffer, wherein determining that the MAC layer frame is a preemption frame comprises determining that the second buffer comprises the MAC layer frame.
20. The method of claim 17, the method further comprising determining a transmission deadline associated with the MAC layer frame, wherein determining that the MAC layer frame is a preemption frame is based on the transmission deadline.
</claims>
</document>
