<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/903,G06N20/00,H04L12/24,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
NATARAJAN, ARJUN
KUNDU, ASHISH
SINGH, KAPIL KUMAR
PAYNE, JOSHUA F.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73045856
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IDENTITY NETWORK ONBOARDING BASED ON CONFIDENCE SCORES
</title>

<abstract>
A method routes an identity query to a particular identity network. An identity broker determines that a candidate identity network is associated with a confidence score that satisfies predetermined criteria. Responsive to determining that the candidate identity network is associated with the confidence score that satisfies the predetermined criteria, the identity broker onboards the candidate identity network into a set of identity networks services, and then routes an identity query for an identity to the candidate identity network that satisfies the predetermined criteria.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining that a candidate identity network is associated with a confidence score that satisfies predetermined criteria, wherein the confidence score is based on network specific variables and standard variables; responsive to determining that the candidate identity network is associated with the confidence score that satisfies the predetermined criteria, onboarding the candidate identity network into a set of identity networks services; and routing, by an identity broker, an identity query for an identity to the candidate identity network that satisfies the predetermined criteria.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: utilizing reinforcement learning to determine that the candidate identity network is associated with the confidence score that satisfies the predetermined criteria.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the network specific variables include a base confidence score, a similarity score, and a fraud score for each identity network in the set of identity networks services.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the standard variables include variables that describe a state of the identity query, and wherein the state of the identity query is from a group consisting of a cost of connecting to the set of identity networks services, an importance of the query to the set of identity networks services, and a time requirement of the query.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the standard variables describe a confidence in an identity of a sender of the identity query.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the identity broker contains a network environment interpreter that utilizes the network specific variables and that standard variables to describe environment data about identity networks in the set of identity networks services, and wherein the method further comprises: creating a policy for routing an identity request to a particular identity network in the set of identity networks services based on the environment data.
7. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, and wherein the program code is readable and executable by a processor to perform a method comprising: determining that a candidate identity network is associated with a confidence score that satisfies predetermined criteria, wherein the confidence score is based on network specific variables and standard variables; responsive to determining that the candidate identity network is associated with the confidence score that satisfies the predetermined criteria, onboarding the candidate identity network into a set of identity networks services; and routing an identity query for an identity to the candidate identity network that satisfies the predetermined criteria.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the method further comprises: utilizing reinforcement learning to determine that the candidate identity network is associated with the confidence score that satisfies the predetermined criteria.
9. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the network specific variables include a base confidence score, a similarity score, and a fraud score for each identity network in the set of identity networks services.
10. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the standard variables include variables that describe a state of the identity query, and wherein the state of the identity query is from a group consisting of a cost of connecting to the set of identity networks services, an importance of the query to the set of identity networks services, and a time requirement of the query.
11. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the standard variables describe a confidence in an identity of a sender of the identity query.
12. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the standard variables describe a confidence in interpreting what type of identity is being requested by a sender of the identity query.
13. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein an identity broker contains a network environment interpreter that utilizes the network specific variables and that standard variables to describe environment data about identity networks in the set of identity networks services, and wherein the method further comprises: creating a policy for routing an identity request to a particular identity network in the set of identity networks services based on the environment data.
14. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the program code is provided as a service in a cloud environment.
15. A computer system comprising one or more processors, one or more computer readable memories, and one or more computer readable non-transitory storage mediums, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more computer readable non-transitory storage mediums for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more computer readable memories, the stored program instructions executed to perform a method comprising: determining that a candidate identity network is associated with a confidence score that satisfies predetermined criteria, wherein the confidence score is based on network specific variables and standard variables; responsive to determining that the candidate identity network is associated with the confidence score that satisfies the predetermined criteria, onboarding the candidate identity network into a set of identity networks services; and routing an identity query for an identity to the candidate identity network that satisfies the predetermined criteria.
16. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises: utilizing reinforcement learning to determine that the candidate identity network is associated with the confidence score that satisfies the predetermined criteria.
17. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the network specific variables include a base confidence score, a similarity score, and a fraud score for each identity network in the set of identity networks services.
18. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the standard variables describe a confidence in an identity of a sender of the identity query.
19. The computer system of claim 15, wherein an identity broker contains a network environment interpreter that utilizes the network specific variables and that standard variables to describe environment data about identity networks in the set of identity networks services, and wherein the method further comprises: creating a policy for routing an identity request to a particular identity network in the set of identity networks services based on the environment data.
20. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the program code is provided as a service in a cloud environment.
</claims>
</document>
