<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/248,G06N20/00,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
MATHIESEN, CHRISTIAN V.
Dogan, Emrecan
Artar, Alp
Kazdagli, Mustafa Emre
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72515566
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ASSESSMENT-BASED OPPORTUNITY EXPLORATION
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments provide a system for processing data. During operation, the system obtains a first assessment result related to a first qualification of a candidate. Next, the system filters a set of opportunities based on a first comparison of the first assessment result with qualifications for the opportunities to produce a first subset of opportunities. The system then selects a second qualification associated with some or all of the first subset of opportunities to assess for the candidate. The system also filters the first subset of opportunities based on a second comparison of a second assessment result related to the second qualification of the candidate with additional qualifications for the first subset of opportunities to produce a second subset of opportunities. Finally, the system outputs recommendations related to applying to the second subset of opportunities by the candidate.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: obtaining a first assessment result related to a first qualification of a candidate; filtering, by one or more computer systems, a set of opportunities based on a first comparison of the first assessment result with qualifications for the set of opportunities to produce a first subset of opportunities; selecting, by the one or more computer systems, a second qualification associated with one or more opportunities from the first subset of opportunities to assess for the candidate; filtering, by the one or more computer systems, the first subset of opportunities based on a second comparison of a second assessment result related to the second qualification of the candidate with additional qualifications for the first subset of opportunities to produce a second subset of opportunities; and outputting recommendations related to applying to one or more of the second subset of opportunities by the candidate.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: matching a career interest of the candidate to the set of opportunities prior to obtaining the first assessment result.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the career interest of the candidate comprises at least one of: an industry; a title; a seniority; a company size; a type of employment; and a location.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: filtering the second subset of opportunities based on additional assessment results of the candidate for additional qualifications prior to outputting the recommendations.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein filtering the second subset of opportunities based on the additional assessment results of the candidate for the additional qualifications comprises: discontinuing filtering of the second subset of opportunities upon detecting a stopping condition associated with assessment of the additional qualifications of the candidate.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the stopping condition comprises at least one of: an amount of time spent assessing qualifications of the candidate; a number of assessment results obtained for the candidate; a number of opportunities in the filtered set of opportunities; and a high probability of a positive outcome between the candidate and one or more opportunities in the filtered set of opportunities.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the second qualification to assess for the candidate comprises: identifying the importance of the second qualification to moderators for the first subset of opportunities based on parameters associated with the second qualification from one or more machine learning models.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying a machine learning model to features comprising the first and second assessment results to produce match scores between the candidate and the second subset of opportunities; and generating the recommendations based on the match scores.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein generating the recommendations based on the match scores comprises at least one of: applying a threshold to a match score to determine a recommendation related to a corresponding opportunity; and generating the recommendations based on an ordering of the second subset of opportunities by the match scores.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the first assessment and the second assessment comprise: an attribute; and a condition associated with the attribute.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the attribute comprises at least one of: a title; a description; a function; an industry; a seniority level; a type of employment; a skill; and an educational background.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the first assessment and the second assessment comprise at least one of: a screening question; and a skill assessment.
13. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: obtain a first assessment result related to a first qualification of a candidate; filter a set of opportunities based on a first comparison of the first assessment result with qualifications for the set of opportunities to produce a first subset of opportunities; select a second qualification associated with one or more opportunities from the first subset of opportunities to assess for the candidate; filter the first subset of opportunities based on a second comparison of a second assessment result related to the second qualification of the candidate with additional qualifications for the first subset of opportunities to produce a second subset of opportunities; and output recommendations related to applying to the one or more opportunities in the second subset of opportunities by the candidate.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the memory further stores instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: match a career interest of the candidate to the set of opportunities prior to obtaining the first assessment result.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the memory further stores instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: filter the second subset of opportunities based on additional assessment results of the candidate for additional qualifications prior to outputting the recommendations; and discontinue filtering of the second subset of opportunities upon detecting a stopping condition associated with assessment of the additional qualifications of the candidate.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the stopping condition comprises at least one of: an amount of time spent assessing qualifications of the candidate; a number of assessment results obtained for the candidate; a number of opportunities in the filtered set of opportunities; and a high probability of a positive outcome between the candidate and one or more opportunities in the filtered set of opportunities.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein selecting the second qualification to assess for the candidate comprises: identifying the importance of the second qualification to moderators for the set of opportunities based on parameters associated with the second qualification from one or more machine learning models.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the memory further stores instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: apply a machine learning model to features comprising the first and second assessment results to produce match scores between the candidate and the second subset of opportunities; and generate the recommendations based on the match scores.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform a method, the method comprising: obtaining a first assessment result related to a first qualification of a candidate; filtering a set of opportunities based on a first comparison of the first assessment result with qualifications for the set of opportunities to produce a first subset of opportunities; selecting a second qualification associated with one or more opportunities from the first subset of opportunities to assess for the candidate; filtering the first subset of opportunities based on a second comparison of a second assessment result related to the second qualification of the candidate with additional qualifications for the first subset of opportunities to produce a second subset of opportunities; and outputting recommendations related to applying to one or more of the second subset of opportunities by the candidate.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, the method further comprising: matching a career interest of the candidate to the set of opportunities; and selecting the first qualification to assess for the candidate based on the importance of the first qualification to moderators for the set of opportunities.
</claims>
</document>
