<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAZE, OREN
LAVI, ERAN
RAMON-GONEN, RONI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69719628
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REAL-TIME MATCHING OF USERS AND APPLICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
User information for a particular user is accessed. Application information for applications that are available in an organization of the particular user is accessed. One or more pattern matches between the user information and the application information are determined. One or more application recommendations are generated based on the determined one or more pattern matches. The one or more application recommendations are provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: accessing user information for a particular user; accessing application information for applications that are available in an organization of the particular user; determining one or more pattern matches between the user information and the application information; generating one or more application recommendations based on the determined one or more pattern matches; and providing the one or more application recommendations.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the user information includes one or more of organizational data for the user, demographic data, application usage information, a user role for the user, user profile information, user activity data, user preferences, a current location of the user, or a current time at which a recommendation can be presented to the user.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the application information includes one or more of an application category, an application description, application knowledge prerequisite information, application training prerequisite information, application cost, application functionality, or application permission requirements.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least one pattern match is a match between the user information and a predefined pattern relating to application data.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least one pattern match is a match between application information and a predefined pattern relating to user information.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more application recommendations are generated in response to a trigger.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the trigger comprises one of a change in user information, a change in application information, or a start of a periodic interval at which to automatically process the user information and the application information.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising storing the one or more pattern matches.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving feedback related to one or more provided application recommendations; and adjusting a pattern recognition engine to improve generation of future application recommendations.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining one or more pattern matches comprises determining an application to which the user has access.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining one or more pattern matches comprises determining an application that matches historical application usage for the user.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining one or more pattern matches comprises determining an application that matches a role of the user.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining one or more pattern matches comprises determining an application that matches some of the user information, wherein the user lacks knowledge or training to use the application, the method further comprising determining the knowledge or training needed and including a suggestion that the user obtain the needed knowledge or training in a provided application recommendation.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising assessing a payment for the one or more application recommendations if a particular application recommendation of the one or more application recommendations is followed by a user.
15. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions executable by a computer system to perform operations comprising: accessing user information for a particular user; accessing application information for applications that are available in an organization of the particular user; determining one or more pattern matches between the user information and the application information; generating one or more application recommendations based on the determined one or more pattern matches; and providing the one or more application recommendations.
16. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the user information includes one or more of organizational data for the user, demographic data, application usage information, a user role for the user, user profile information, user activity data, user preferences, a current location of the user, or a current time at which a recommendation can be presented to the user.
17. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the application information includes one or more of an application category, an application description, application knowledge prerequisite information, application training prerequisite information, application cost, application functionality, or application permission requirements.
18. A computer-implemented system, comprising: one or more computers; and one or more computer memory devices interoperably coupled with the one or more computers and having tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable media storing one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, perform one or more operations comprising: accessing user information for a particular user; accessing application information for applications that are available in an organization of the particular user; determining one or more pattern matches between the user information and the application information; generating one or more application recommendations based on the determined one or more pattern matches; and providing the one or more application recommendations.
19. The computer-implemented system of claim 18, wherein the user information includes one or more of organizational data for the user, demographic data, application usage information, a user role for the user, user profile information, user activity data, user preferences, a current location of the user, or a current time at which a recommendation can be presented to the user.
20. The computer-implemented system of claim 18, wherein the application information includes one or more of an application category, an application description, application knowledge prerequisite information, application training prerequisite information, application cost, application functionality, or application permission requirements.
</claims>
</document>
