<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,H04B17/345,H04B17/382,H04W16/14,H04W72/04,H04W72/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUO XIN
SHI, LU
SUN CHEN
ZHAO, YOUPING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67778939
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FREQUENCY SPECTRUM MANAGEMENT DEVICE, SYSTEM, METHOD AND COMPUTER READABLE STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A frequency spectrum management device includes a processing circuit configured to acquire, with regard to a position of a primary user sample, a plurality pieces of sample information, each of the plurality pieces of sample information comprising information of a plurality of secondary user samples, and an aggregate interference generated by the plurality of secondary users on the primary user sample; and training a neural network model by taking the information of the plurality of secondary user samples as an input of the neural network model and taking the aggregate interference generated by the plurality of secondary user samples on the primary user sample as an output of the neural network model, so as to determine a parameter set of the neural network model corresponding to the position of the primary user sample.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A spectrum management apparatus, comprising processing circuitry configured to: acquire a plurality of pieces of sample information with respect to a position of a sample primary user, each of the plurality of pieces of sample information comprising information of a plurality of sample secondary users and aggregate interference produced by the plurality of sample secondary users to the sample primary user; and train a neural network model by using the information of the plurality of sample secondary users as an input to the neural network model and using the aggregate interference produced by the plurality of sample secondary users to the sample primary user as an output of the neural network model, to determine a parameter set of a neural network model corresponding to the position of the sample primary user.
2. The spectrum management apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: send the parameter set of the neural network model corresponding to the position of the sample primary user to another spectrum management apparatus than the spectrum management apparatus, for the another spectrum management apparatus to predict, using the neural network model, aggregate interference produced at the position of the sample primary user.
3. The spectrum management apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: acquire information of a plurality of current secondary users with respect to a position of a current primary user; acquire a parameter set of a neural network model corresponding to the position of the current primary user; and predict aggregate interference produced by the plurality of current secondary users to the current primary user, by using the information of the plurality of current secondary users as an input to the neural network model corresponding to the position of the current primary user.
4. The spectrum management apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the information of the plurality of current secondary users comprises position information of each current secondary user of the plurality of current secondary users.
5. The spectrum management apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the information of the plurality of current secondary users further comprises one or more of: information related to a radio propagation environment between each current secondary user and the current primary user; power information of each current secondary user; and antenna radiation direction information of each current secondary user.
6. The spectrum management apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: divide the plurality of current secondary users into a plurality of clusters, and wherein the information of the plurality of current secondary users comprises: position information of a cluster center of each cluster of the plurality of clusters, information related to a radio propagation environment between the cluster center of each cluster and the current primary user, and/or a superposition value of power of all current secondary users in each cluster.
7. The spectrum management apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the plurality of current secondary users are current secondary users producing interference to the current primary user determined according to a user type and an interference threshold of the current primary user.
8. The spectrum management apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: determine, according to the position of the current primary user, whether or not the parameter set of the neural network model corresponding to the position of the current primary user is stored; and use the position of the current primary user as the position of the sample primary user to acquire the plurality of pieces of sample information, in a case where the parameter set of the neural network model corresponding to the position of the current primary user is not stored.
9. The spectrum management apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: perform spectrum management on the plurality of current secondary users according to the predicted aggregate interference produced by the plurality of current secondary users to the current primary user.
10. The spectrum management apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the information of the plurality of sample secondary users comprises position information of each sample secondary user of the plurality of sample secondary users; or the information of the plurality of sample secondary users comprises position information of each sample secondary user of the plurality of sample secondary users and one or more of: information related to a radio propagation environment between each sample secondary user and the sample primary user; power information of each sample secondary user; and antenna radiation direction information of each sample secondary user.
11. The spectrum management apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: divide the plurality of sample secondary users into a plurality of clusters, and wherein the information of the plurality of sample secondary users comprises: position information of a cluster center of each cluster of the plurality of clusters, information related to a radio propagation environment between the cluster center of each cluster and the sample primary user, and/or a superposition value of power of all sample secondary users in each cluster.
12. The spectrum management apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of sample secondary users are sample secondary users producing interference to the sample primary user determined according to a user type and an interference threshold of the sample primary user.
13. The spectrum management apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: acquire, from a network side apparatus for managing primary users, aggregate interference produced by the plurality of sample secondary users to the sample primary user.
14. The spectrum management apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the parameter set of the neural network model corresponding to the position of the sample primary user comprises: node numbers of an input layer, an output layer and an implicit layer of the neural network model; and weight coefficient information of the neural network model.
15. The spectrum management apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the spectrum management apparatus comprises a Spectrum Access System SAS or a Coexistence Manager CxM.
16. A spectrum management system, comprising: one or more network side apparatuses for managing secondary users, configured to send information of sample secondary users to a spectrum management apparatus; one or more network side apparatuses for managing primary users, configured to send existence information of a sample primary user to the spectrum management apparatus; and the spectrum management apparatus configured to: acquire a plurality of pieces of sample information with respect to a position of the sample primary user, each of the plurality of pieces of sample information comprising information of a plurality of sample secondary users and aggregate interference produced by the plurality of sample secondary users to the sample primary user; and train a neural network model by using the information of the plurality of sample secondary users as an input to the neural network model and using the aggregate interference produced by the plurality of sample secondary users to the sample primary user as an output of the neural network model, to determine a parameter set of a neural network model corresponding to the position of the sample primary user.
17. The spectrum management system according to claim 16, wherein the network side apparatus for managing secondary users is further configured to send information of current secondary users to the spectrum management apparatus, the network side apparatus for managing primary users is further configured to send existence information of a current primary user to the spectrum management apparatus, and the spectrum management apparatus is further configured to: acquire information of a plurality of current secondary users with respect to a position of the current primary user; acquire a parameter set of a neural network model corresponding to the position of the current primary user; and predict aggregate interference produced by the plurality of current secondary users to the current primary user, by using the information of the plurality of current secondary users as an input to the neural network model corresponding to the position of the current primary user.
18. The spectrum management system according to claim 17, wherein the spectrum management apparatus is further configured to: perform spectrum management on the plurality of current secondary users according to the predicted aggregate interference produced by the plurality of current secondary users to the current primary user.
19. The spectrum management system according to claim 16, wherein the network side apparatus for managing secondary users comprises a Citizens Broadband Radio Service Device CBSD, the network side apparatus for managing primary users comprises an Environmental Sensing Capability ESC device or a CBSD with sensing capability, the spectrum management apparatus comprises a Spectrum Access System SAS or a Coexistence Manager CxM.
20. A radio communication method performed by a spectrum management apparatus, comprising: acquiring a plurality of pieces of sample information with respect to a position of a sample primary user, each of the plurality of pieces of sample information comprising information of a plurality of sample secondary users and aggregate interference produced by the plurality of sample secondary users to the sample primary user; and training a neural network model by using the information of the plurality of sample secondary users as an input to the neural network model and using the aggregate interference produced by the plurality of sample secondary users to the sample primary user as an output of the neural network model, to determine a parameter set of a neural network model corresponding to the position of the sample primary user.
21. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
