<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B06B1/06,B08B7/02,B60S1/56,G02B27/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FORD GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
KRISHNAN, VENKATESH
BALDOVINO, SEGUNDO
ARUNMOZHI, ASHWIN
ROBERTSON, Jr., MICHAEL
PHINISEE, RASHAUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72839461
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SENSOR ASSEMBLY WITH CLEANING
</title>

<abstract>
A system includes a sensor window, a sensor having a field of view through the sensor window, a piezoelectric vibrator positioned to impart vibrations to the sensor window, and a computer communicatively coupled to the sensor and the piezoelectric vibrator. The computer is programmed to identify a type for an obstruction of the sensor window based on data from the sensor, and instruct the piezoelectric vibrator to vibrate the sensor window with vibrations having a vibration profile. The vibration profile has at least one of frequency or phase velocity chosen according to the identified type of obstruction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a sensor window; a sensor having a field of view through the sensor window; a piezoelectric vibrator positioned to impart vibrations to the sensor window; and a computer communicatively coupled to the sensor and the piezoelectric vibrator; wherein the computer is programmed to identify a type for an obstruction of the sensor window based on data from the sensor; and instruct the piezoelectric vibrator to vibrate the sensor window with vibrations following a vibration profile, the vibration profile having at least one of frequency or phase velocity chosen according to the identified type of obstruction.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the piezeoelectric vibrator is a first piezoelectric vibrator, the system further comprising a second piezoelectric vibrator positioned to impart vibrations to the sensor window.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the computer is programmed to instruct the piezoelectric vibrators to vibrate the sensor window with vibrations following vibration profiles having at least one of different frequencies or different phase velocities chosen according to the identified type of obstruction.
4. The system of claim 2, further comprising a third piezoelectric vibrator positioned to impart vibrations to the sensor window, and a fourth piezoelectric vibrator positioned to impart vibrations to the sensor window.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the piezoelectric vibrators are circumferentially evenly spaced around the sensor window.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer is programmed to determine an effectiveness metric for removing the obstruction based on data from the sensor during or after the piezoelectric vibrator was vibrating.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the computer is programmed to determine at least one of a new frequency or new phase velocity based on the effectiveness metric, and instruct the piezoelectric vibrator to vibrate the sensor window with vibrations following a vibration profile having the at least one new frequency or new phase velocity upon identifying a type of a new obstruction that is the same type of obstruction as for the effectiveness metric.
8. The system of claim 1, further comprising an annular sensor-window frame in which the sensor window is mounted.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the sensor includes a sensor housing, the system further comprising an annular dampener coupling the sensor-window frame to the sensor housing.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the sensor includes a sensor lens mounted to the sensor housing and defining an axis, wherein the sensor lens is closer to the sensor window along the axis than the dampener is.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the piezoelectric vibrator is piezoelectric paint directly coating the sensor window.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the sensor window is a lens for the sensor.
13. A computer comprising a processor and a memory storing instructions executable by the processor to: identify a type for an obstruction of a sensor window based on data from a sensor having a field of view through the sensor window; and instruct a piezoelectric vibrator to vibrate the sensor window with vibrations following a vibration profile, the vibration profile having at least one of frequency or phase velocity chosen according to the identified type of obstruction.
14. The computer of claim 13, wherein the piezoelectric vibrator is a first piezoelectric vibrator, and the instructions further include to instruct the first piezoelectric vibrator and a second piezoelectric vibrator to vibrate the sensor window with vibrations following vibration profiles having at least one of different frequencies or different phase velocities chosen according to the identified type of obstruction.
15. The computer of claim 13, wherein the instructions further include to determine an effectiveness metric for removing the obstruction based on data from the sensor during or after the piezoelectric vibrator was vibrating.
16. The computer of claim 15, wherein the instructions further include to determine at least one of a new frequency or new phase velocity based on the effectiveness metric, and instruct the piezoelectric vibrator to vibrate the sensor window with vibrations following a vibration profile having the at least one new frequency or new phase velocity upon identifying a type of a new obstruction that is the same type of obstruction as for the effectiveness metric.
17. A method comprising: identifying a type for an obstruction of a sensor window based on data from a sensor having a field of view through the sensor window; and instructing a piezoelectric vibrator to vibrate the sensor window with vibrations following a vibration profile, the vibration profile having at least one of frequency or phase velocity chosen according to the identified type of obstruction.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the piezoelectric vibrator is a first piezoelectric vibrator, the method further comprising instructing the first piezoelectric vibrator and a second piezoelectric vibrator to vibrate the sensor window with vibrations following vibration profiles having at least one of different frequencies or different phase velocities chosen according to the identified type of obstruction.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising determining an effectiveness metric for removing the obstruction based on data from the sensor during or after the piezoelectric vibrator was vibrating.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising determining at least one of a new frequency or new phase velocity based on the effectiveness metric, and instructing the piezoelectric vibrator to vibrate the sensor window with vibrations following a vibration profile having the at least one new frequency or new phase velocity upon identifying a type of a new obstruction that is the same type of obstruction as for the effectiveness metric.
</claims>
</document>
