<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-07-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06F16/332,G06F16/9535,G06F9/50,G06Q30/02,G06Q50/12,H04L12/58,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FOURSQUARE LABS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SOSNOVTSEV, DENIS
WANG, SAMUEL
KAMEN, MATTHEW J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57882693
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TASTE EXTRACTION CURATION AND TAGGING
</title>

<abstract>
In non-limiting examples of the present disclosure, taste data is generated and usable within one or more applications. A taste is one or more elements that describe an entity. Information of an application may be processed to extract entity data that corresponds to a plurality of candidates to be designated as tastes (taste data). The candidates for the tastes are curated. In examples, the curating comprises filtering the candidates for tastes to remove extracted candidates. Extraction rules for managing structured taste data may be applied in the filtering. A status of a remaining candidate may be determined as approved or rejected based on processing of received user feedback. Taste data may be generated for an approved candidate. The generating of the taste data may comprise assigning parameters that include a descriptor type and a recommendation type. Taste data may be used within an application.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: processing information of an application to extract entity data that corresponds to a plurality of candidates to be designated as tastes, wherein a taste is one or more elements that describe an entity; curating the candidates for the tastes, wherein the curating comprises: filtering the candidates for the tastes to remove extracted candidates based on application of extraction rules for managing structured taste data stored in a memory, determining a status of at least one remaining candidate as approved or rejected, wherein the status of the remaining candidate is determined based on processing of received user feedback, generating taste data for an approved candidate, wherein the generating comprises assigning parameters that comprise a descriptor type and a recommendation type; and associating the generated taste data with content of the application based on analyzing the assigned parameters of the taste data and attributes of the content, wherein the associating comprises storing associations between the taste data and the content in the memory to update the structured taste data.
2. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, further comprising presenting the taste data to a user of the application based on the stored associations, wherein the presenting displays the taste data within the application as directed information.
3. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein the curating further comprises clustering the generated taste data in a cluster with other taste data, the cluster representing hierarchical relationships between the generated taste data and other taste data, and storing cluster data for the cluster in the memory to update the structured taste data.
4. The computer-implemented method according to claim 3, wherein the generating of the taste data further comprises identifying whether the generated taste data is a non-compositional compound, and the clustering further comprises managing implications associated with clustering the generated taste data and the other taste data in response to identifying whether the generated taste data is the non-compositional compound.
5. The computer-implemented method according to claim 3, wherein the clustering further comprises associating synonyms for the generated taste data in the cluster based on matching the generated taste data with the other taste data.
6. The computer-implemented method according to claim 5, wherein the clustering further comprises determining a canonical phrase to represent the cluster data and setting any of the cluster data to be presentable in the application as the canonical phrase.
7. The computer-implemented method according to claim 6, wherein the clustering further comprises synthesizing the cluster data, wherein the synthesizing comprises at least one of rephrasing a portion of the cluster data, and expanding the cluster to include created taste data.
8. The computer-implemented method according to claim 7, wherein the associating of the generated taste data with the content further comprises associating the content with the canonical phrase, and wherein the computer-implemented method further comprising presenting the canonical phrase to a user of the application based on the stored associations, and wherein the presenting presents the canonical phrase within the application in association with creation of directed information.
9. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein the associating further comprises applying data association rules to determine associations between the generated taste data and the content, and wherein the data association rules comprise determining whether to blacklist generated taste data from being associated with particular content and selectively blacklisting the generated taste data.
10. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory operatively connected with the at least one processor, the memory comprising computer executable instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, perform a method comprising: processing information of an application to extract entity data that corresponds to a plurality of candidates to be designated as tastes, wherein a taste is one or more elements that describe an entity, curating the candidates for the tastes, wherein the curating comprises: filtering the candidates for the tastes to remove extracted candidates based on application of extraction rules for managing structured taste data that is stored in a storage associated with the system, determining a status of at least one remaining candidate as approved or rejected, wherein the status of the remaining candidate is determined based on processing of received user feedback, generating taste data for an approved candidate, wherein the generating comprises assigning parameters that comprise a descriptor type and a recommendation type, and associating the generated taste data with content of the application based on analyzing the assigned parameters of the taste data and attributes of the content, wherein the associating comprises storing associations between the taste data and the content in the storage to update the structured taste data.
11. The system according to claim 10, wherein the method further comprising presenting the taste data to a user of the application based on the stored associations, wherein the presenting displays the taste data within the application as directed information.
12. The system according to claim 11, wherein the curating further comprises clustering the generated taste data in a cluster with other taste data, the cluster representing hierarchical relationships between the generated taste data and other taste data, and storing cluster data for the cluster in the storage to update the structured taste data.
13. The system according to claim 12, wherein the generating of the taste data further comprises identifying whether the generated taste data is a non-compositional compound and the clustering further comprises managing implications associated with the cluster data in response to identifying whether the generated taste data is the non-compositional compound.
14. The system according to claim 13, wherein the clustering further comprises associating synonyms for the generated taste data in the cluster based on matching the generated taste data with the other taste data.
15. The system according to claim 14, wherein the clustering further comprises determining a canonical phrase to represent the cluster data and setting any of the cluster data to be presentable in the application as the canonical phrase.
16. The system according to claim 15, wherein the clustering further comprises synthesizing the cluster data, wherein the synthesizing comprises at least one of rephrasing a portion of the cluster data, and expanding the cluster to include created taste data.
17. The system according to claim 16, wherein the associating of the generated taste data with the content further comprises associating the content with the canonical phrase, and wherein the method further comprising presenting the canonical phrase to a user of the application based on the stored associations, and wherein the presenting displays the canonical phrase within the application in association with creation of directed information.
18. The system according to claim 10, wherein the associating further comprises applying data association rules to determine associations between the generated taste data and the content, and wherein the data association rules comprise determining whether to blacklist generated taste data from being associated with particular content and selectively blacklisting the generated taste data.
19. A computer-readable medium including executable instructions, that when executed on at least one processor, causing the processor to perform operations comprising: viewing, through a graphical user interface associated with an application, a corpus of structured taste data that is stored in a memory of a processing device, wherein the structured taste data comprises a plurality of tastes and associations between the plurality of tastes and venue data, and wherein a taste is one or more elements that describe an entity and is used to provide context for the venue data; receiving input corresponding to a particular taste; and in response to the received input, displaying, through the graphical user interface, taste data for the particular taste retrieved from the corpus of structured taste data, wherein the taste data comprises metadata for the particular taste, associations between the particular taste and other taste data, and associations between the particular taste and the venue data.
20. The computer-readable storage medium according to claim 19, where the operations further comprising: receiving update the structured taste data, and displaying, through the graphical user interface, update to the structure taste data in response to the received update.
</claims>
</document>
