<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61C7/00,G06F30/10,G06F30/27
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIGN TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BELIAEV, ALEXANDER
DURDIN, DENIS
GORODILOV, MIKHAIL
GREBENKIN, SERGEY
GUDCHENKO, ROMAN
GUSKOV, DMITRY
ISCHEYKIN, DMITRII
KARNYGIN, EVGENII VLADIMIROVICH
PARAKETSOV, VASILY
POTAPENKO, IVAN
ROSCHIN, ROMAN A.
SOLOVYEV, ROMAN
VLADYKIN, ALEXEY
VOVCHENKO, ALEXANDER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606392
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEGMENTATION QUALITY ASSESSMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for improving segmentation of a digital model of a patient's dentition into component teeth.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: determining, for a tooth of a digital model, a first restriction boundary for the tooth; generating a loop path around a surface of the digital model of the tooth based on the first restriction boundary; estimating a loop path metric from the loop path; adjusting the first restriction boundary by iteratively expanding the restriction boundary in a first direction and generating a new loop path based on the expanded restriction boundary until a second loop path metric that is estimated from the new loop path no longer improves; repeating the step of adjusting the first restriction boundary for one or more additional directions; and segmenting the digital model of the tooth based on a final adjusted first restriction boundary.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising estimating the first restriction boundary for the tooth based on one or more of: a facial plane of the clinical crown (FPCC), a middle plane of the clinical crown (MPCC), a plane orthogonal to a Z-axis of the tooth (HPCC), a facial axis of the clinical crown (FACC) curve, an FACC gingival point, an FACC buccal point, and a central plane of the clinical crown (CPCC).
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising confirming that the restriction boundary is faulty.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein segmenting the digital model of the tooth based on a final adjusted first restriction boundary comprises segmenting the digital model of the tooth between the tooth and the gingiva.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the loop path metric comprises a path curvature for the loop path or the new loop path.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the loop path metric comprises a mean or variance of the path curvature for the loop path or the loop path metric.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the loop path metric comprises a length of any convex edges of the loop path.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first restriction boundary is adjusted until the second loop path metric is larger than a loop path metric prior to expanding the restriction boundary.
9. 9.-10. (canceled)
11. A computer-implemented method comprising: applying a plurality of filters to check the segmentation of a segmented digital model of a patient's dentition; ranking the segmentation of the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition based on the results of the plurality of filters; and automatically processing the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition if the segmentation of the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition is ranked meets a threshold rank.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11 wherein automatically processing comprises automatically processing the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition if the segmentation of the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition is ranked meets a threshold rank, otherwise re-processing the segmentation of the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising generating a report and presenting the report to a user or technician.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of filters comprises one or more filters configured to check one or more of: segmented tooth shape, tooth count, segmented tooth position, segmented surface boundaries, missing teeth, extra teeth, segmented tooth crown shape, segmented tooth crown orientation, space between segmented teeth, segmented tooth surface curvature, segmented gingival border, trimmed teeth, tooth numbering, visible top of crown, and holes in segmentation.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein at least some of the filters comprise machine learning filters.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, further comprising training the machine-learning filters against both positive groups that are well segmented and negative groups that are poorly segmented.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein ranking the segmentation of the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition based on the results of the plurality of filters comprises averaging a numerical score from each of the filters of the plurality of filters.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein automatically processing the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition if the segmentation of the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition is ranked meets the threshold rank comprises automatically processing the segmented digital model if the rank of the segmented digital model is greater than the threshold rank.
19. 19.-20. (canceled)
21. A computer-implemented method comprising: identifying one or more outlying regions of the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition having tooth-like color that are outside of any region of the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition that is indicated as teeth; estimating a probability that any of the one or more outlying regions are teeth; scoring the segmentation of the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition based, at least in part, on the probability that any of the one or more outlying regions are teeth; and reprocessing the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition if the score of the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition is outside of a passing range.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising determining a color quality of a segmented digital model of a patient's dentition.
23. The method of claim 22, further comprising stopping the method if the color quality is below a color quality metric.
24. The method of claim 21, further comprising outputting a grade or score of the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition.
25. The method of claim 21, further comprising adjusting the score of the segmentation of the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition based on a comparison between the color values of the segmentation boundary and the color value on either sides of the segmentation boundary.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein identifying one or more outlying regions of the segmented digital model of the patient's dentition having tooth-like color comprises identifying the one or more outlying region having tooth-like blue and green color values.
27. The method of claim 21, wherein estimating the probability comprises basing the probability on at least one or more of: the size of the outlying region, the relative boundary size of the outlying region, the presence or absence of a cusp on the outlying region, the presence of sharp edges on the outlying region and the shape of the outlying region.
28. 28.-29. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
