<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63B24/00,G06N20/00,G16H20/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOLTER, STEPHEN
PITCHFORD, ROBERT
Wang, Ying
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61873943
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES FOR PROVIDING CUSTOMIZED EXERCISE-RELATED RECOMMENDATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A classification model is generated based on historical exercise information. User exercise information is classified into an exercise category using the classification model. Recommendations based on the exercise category is identified. A customized exercise recommendation is determined from the identified recommendations based on a comparison of the user exercise information and expected progress data. This customized recommendation is provided to a user device for consumption.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-readable storage medium comprising computer-readable instructions that, upon execution by one or more processors of a service provider processing device, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: generating a classification model based at least in part on exercise information of a plurality of user workout sessions associated with a plurality of user profiles; identifying user profile information associated with a user profile; receiving user exercise information associated with the user profile; classifying the user exercise information into a user exercise category of a plurality of user exercise categories using the classification model; identifying a plurality of exercise recommendations based at least in part on the user exercise category; determining a customized exercise recommendation from the plurality of exercise recommendations based at least in part on a comparison of the user exercise information to expected progress data; and providing the customized exercise recommendation to a user device associated with the user profile.
2. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the exercise information comprises sensor data collected from a plurality of exercise machines.
3. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 2, wherein the plurality of exercise machines are used by a plurality of users associated with the plurality of user profiles during the plurality of user workout sessions.
4. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, comprising further instructions that cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving subsequent user exercise information of a different plurality of user workout sessions; and retraining the classification model based at least in part on the subsequent user exercise information.
5. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 4, comprising further instructions that cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising providing, a different customized exercise recommendation to an additional user device associated with an additional user profile of the plurality of user profiles based at least in part on the retrained classification model.
6. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, comprising further instructions that cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising generating a customized exercise plan based at least in part on the exercise information, user profile information associated with the user profile, the user exercise category, and the expected progress data, wherein the customized exercise recommendation corresponds to the customized exercise plan.
7. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the user exercise information comprises first user exercise information, and the computer-readable storage medium comprises further instructions that cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: detecting, based at least in part on second user exercise information, instances in which the first user exercise information no longer match the expected progress data; and responsive to detecting the instances, retraining, the classification model to define an updated classification model based at least in part on the second user exercise information.
8. A computer-implemented method, comprising: generating a classification model based at least in part on exercise information of a plurality of user workout sessions associated with a plurality of user profiles; identifying user profile information associated with a user profile; receiving user exercise information associated with the user profile; classifying the user exercise information into a user exercise category of a plurality of user exercise categories using the classification model; identifying a plurality of exercise recommendations based at least in part on the user exercise category; determining a customized exercise recommendation from the plurality of exercise recommendations based at least in part on a comparison of the user exercise information to expected progress data; and providing the customized exercise recommendation to a user device associated with the user profile.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the exercise information comprises sensor data collected from a plurality of exercise machines.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of exercise machines are used by a plurality of users associated with the plurality of user profiles during the plurality of user workout sessions.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising: receiving subsequent user exercise information of a different plurality of user workout sessions; and retraining the classification model based at least in part on the subsequent user exercise information.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising providing a different customized exercise recommendation to an additional user device associated with an additional user profile of the plurality of user profiles based at least in part on the retrained classification model.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising generating a customized exercise plan based at least in part on the exercise information, user profile information associated with the user profile, the user exercise category, and the expected progress data, wherein the customized exercise recommendation corresponds to the customized exercise plan.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the user exercise information comprises first user exercise information, and the method further comprises: detecting, based at least in part on second user exercise information, instances in which the first user exercise information no longer match the expected progress data; and responsive to detecting the instances, retraining, the classification model to define an updated classification model based at least in part on the second user exercise information.
15. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more memories storing computer-readable instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the system to at least: generate a classification model based at least in part on exercise information of a plurality of user workout sessions associated with a plurality of user profiles; identify user profile information associated with a user profile; receive user exercise information associated with the user profile; classify the user exercise information into a user exercise category of a plurality of user exercise categories using the classification model; identify a plurality of exercise recommendations based at least in part on the user exercise category; determine a customized exercise recommendation from the plurality of exercise recommendations based at least in part on a comparison of the user exercise information to expected progress data; and provide the customized exercise recommendation to a user device associated with the user profile.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the exercise information comprises sensor data collected from a plurality of exercise machines.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the plurality of exercise machines are used by a plurality of users associated with the plurality of user profiles during the plurality of user workout sessions.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more memories store additional instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to at least: receive subsequent user exercise information of a different plurality of user workout sessions; and retrain the classification model based at least in part on the subsequent user exercise information.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the one or more memories store additional instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to at least provide a different customized exercise recommendation to an additional user device associated with an additional user profile of the plurality of user profiles based at least in part on the retrained classification model.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the user exercise information comprises first user exercise information, and wherein the one or more memories store additional instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to at least: detect, based at least in part on second user exercise information, instances in which the first user exercise information no longer match the expected progress data; and responsive to detecting the instances, retrain, the classification model to define an updated classification model based at least in part on the second user exercise information.
</claims>
</document>
