<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F8/41,G06F8/61,G06F8/75,G06F8/76,G06F8/77,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHAAF, DAVID
KUNJURAMANPILLAI, ANOOP
HARI, PHANI KRISHNA
SHIOZAKI, RADFORD
THOTA, BASWARAJ
NAUGLE, KENNETH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70332396
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES TO DEPLOY AN APPLICATION AS A CLOUD COMPUTING SERVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described to automate deployment of an application as a cloud computing service. Such deployment may be accomplished on any underlying host infrastructure. As mentioned above, a typical application may engage in a number of build and deployment processes in order to run on a host computer with an infrastructure type. The techniques described herein may leverage an artificial intelligence computation library to identify which build and deployment processes are required by the application. Once identified, the user may select a host infrastructure type and create a container package with a runtime machine and components configure to run these build and deployment processes for that host infrastructure type. The container package may be used to generate an image from which the host computer can run the application as the cloud computing service. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: computer memory; a processing circuit; and logic stored in the computer memory and operative on the processing circuit, the logic configured to cause the processing circuit to: apply a strategy model to computer code to determine a build pipeline and a deployment pattern for the computer code, the strategy model trained via training data comprising data points relating to building and deployment of a plurality of applications; generate a container package from the computer code utilizing the build pipeline, wherein the container package comprises a runtime machine and information identifying commands and components to generate an image for an application; generate the image from the container package; and deploy the image in a cloud-based computing platform based on the deployment pattern, the image enabled to execute in the cloud-based computing platform.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising logic configured to cause the processing circuit to create the strategy model using an artificial intelligence computational library.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising logic configured to cause the processing circuit to store, in the container package, information on command line calls to assemble the image.
4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising logic configured to cause the processing circuit to configure the cloud-based computing platform to collect and process log data corresponding to executing the image and running the application.
5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising logic configured to cause the processing circuit to deploy the image with a network address associated with hosting by the cloud-based computing platform.
6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising logic configured to cause the processing circuit to generate clones of the image for hosting a plurality of services.
7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising logic configured to cause the processing circuit to store the image in a repository of the cloud-based computing platform.
8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising logic configured to cause the processing circuit to identify dependencies for the application to use for the build pipeline.
9. A computer-implemented method, comprising: implementing, by a computing system, a strategy model on computer code to determine a build pipeline and a deployment pattern for the computer code, the strategy model trained with data points relating to building and deployment of a plurality of other applications; generating, by the computing system, a container package from the computer code based on the build pipeline, the container package comprising a runtime machine and identifying commands and components to generate an image for an application; generating, by the computing system, the image from the container package including the runtime machine, and commands and components; and deploying, by the computing system, the image based on the deployment pattern, the image enabled to execute in the cloud-based computing platform.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, comprising creating the strategy model using an artificial intelligence computational library.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, comprising storing, in the container package, information on command line calls to assemble the image.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, comprising deploying the image in a cloud-based computing platform and configuring the cloud-based computing platform to collect and process log data corresponding to executing the image and running the application.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, comprising deploying the image with a network address associated with hosting by a cloud-based computing platform.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, comprising generating clones of the image for hosting a plurality of services.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, comprising storing the image in a repository of the cloud-based computing platform.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, comprising identifying dependencies for the application to use for the build pipeline.
17. At least one non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising a set of instructions that, in response to being executed on a computing system, cause the computing system to: implement a strategy model on computer code to determine a build pipeline and a deployment pattern for the computer code, the strategy model trained with data points relating to building and deployment of a plurality of other applications; generate a container package from the computer code based on the build pipeline, the container package comprising a runtime machine and identifying commands and components to generate an image for an application; generate the image from the container package including the runtime machine, and commands and components; and deploy the image based on the deployment pattern, the image enabled to execute in the cloud-based computing platform.
18. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, the computing system to create the strategy model using an artificial intelligence computational library.
19. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, the computing system to store in the container package, information on command line calls to assemble the image.
20. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, the computing system to deploy the image in a cloud-based computing platform and configuring the cloud-based computing platform to collect and process log data corresponding to executing the image and running the application.
</claims>
</document>
