<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/60,H04L29/06,H04L5/04,H04L5/12,H04W12/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SEMICONDUCTOR COMPONENTS INDUSTRIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
DASH, DEBASHIS
DEHGHAN, HOSSEIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70277171
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SECURE CHANNEL STATE INFORMATION WITH ADAPTIVE OBFUSCATION
</title>

<abstract>
A privacy-enhancing wireless communication method for use by a transmitting wireless device having a first location, the method comprising: obtaining a frame preamble using a transceiver device at a location, wherein the frame preamble includes a predetermined pattern and wherein movement information corresponding to the location is detectable based on channel state information of the transceiver device in accordance with the predetermined pattern; modifying the predetermined pattern of the frame preamble to include amplitude or phase distortion; and masking the movement information by transmitting, using the transceiver device, a frame including the frame preamble with the modified predetermined pattern.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A privacy-enhancing wireless communication method, the method comprising: obtaining a frame preamble using a transceiver device at a location, wherein the frame preamble includes a predetermined pattern and wherein movement information corresponding to the location is detectable based on channel state information of the transceiver device in accordance with the predetermined pattern; modifying the predetermined pattern of the frame preamble to include amplitude or phase distortion; and masking the movement information by transmitting, using the transceiver device, a frame including the frame preamble with the modified predetermined pattern.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining one or more subsequent frame preambles using the transceiver device at the location, wherein each of the one or more subsequent frame preambles includes a different predetermined pattern, and wherein subsequent movement information corresponding to the location is detectable based on channel state information of the transceiver device in accordance with the different predetermined patterns; modifying each of the different predetermined patterns of the one or more subsequent frame preambles to include different amplitude or phase distortion; and masking the subsequent movement information by transmitting, using the transceiver device, one or more subsequent frames including the one or more subsequent frame preambles with modified predetermined patterns.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the amplitude or phase distortion is falsely indicative of physical movement at the location.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the amplitude or phase distortion is falsely indicative of random movement at the location.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the amplitude or phase distortion is falsely indicative of an absence of movement at the location.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the amplitude or phase distortion falsely indicates a presence of least one electronic device moving at the location.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the transceiver device is at least one of an access point, station, repeater, and mesh node.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: instructing two or more receiving devices to respond according to a schedule with frame preambles that include adjusted amplitude or phase distortions indicating transmission indicating coordinated masked movement information.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined pattern is a training sequence.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting to a receiving device decoding parameters for determining the predetermined pattern from the frame preamble with the modified predetermined pattern.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein said modifying includes multiplying the predetermined pattern with an obfuscation matrix, and wherein the method further comprises coordinating with a receiving device beforehand to determine which obfuscation matrix to use.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein said modifying includes multiplying the predetermined pattern with an obfuscation matrix, and wherein the obfuscation matrix varies according to time.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein said modifying includes introducing a time delay or a phase shift between antenna streams, spatial streams or I/Q streams, and wherein a magnitude of the time delay or a magnitude of the phase shift varies according to time.
14. A transmitting wireless device corresponding to a location, comprising: one or more antennas; a processor coupled to the one or more antennas; and a memory storing instructions executable by the processor, wherein the instructions comprise instructions to: obtain a frame preamble, wherein the frame preamble includes a predetermined pattern and wherein movement information corresponding to the location is detectable based on channel state information of the transmitting wireless device in accordance with the predetermined pattern; modify the predetermined pattern of the frame preamble to include amplitude or phase distortion; and mask the movement information by transmitting, using the one or more antennas, a frame including the frame preamble with the modified predetermined pattern.
15. The transmitting wireless device of claim 14, wherein the instructions further comprise instructions to: obtain one or more subsequent frame preambles, wherein each of the one or more subsequent frame preambles includes a different predetermined pattern, and wherein subsequent movement information corresponding to the location is detectable based on channel state information of the transmitting wireless device in accordance with the different predetermined patterns; modify each of the different predetermined patterns of the one or more subsequent frame preambles to include different amplitude or phase distortion; and mask the subsequent movement information by transmitting, using the one or more antennas, one or more subsequent frames including the one or more subsequent frame preambles with modified predetermined patterns.
16. The transmitting wireless device of claim 14, wherein the amplitude or phase distortion is falsely indicative of physical movement at the location.
17. The transmitting wireless device of claim 14, wherein the amplitude or phase distortion is falsely indicative of random movement at the location.
18. The transmitting wireless device of claim 14, wherein the amplitude or phase distortion is falsely indicative of an absence of movement at the location.
19. The transmitting wireless device of claim 14, wherein the instructions to modify the predetermined pattern further comprise instructions to multiply the predetermined pattern with an obfuscation matrix, and wherein the obfuscation matrix varies according to time.
20. The transmitting wireless device of claim 14, wherein the instructions to modify the predetermined pattern of the frame preamble further comprise instructions to introduce a time delay or a phase shift between antenna streams, spatial streams or I/Q streams, and wherein a magnitude of the time delay or a magnitude of the phase shift varies according to time.
</claims>
</document>
