<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2009-12-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0484,G06Q20/10,G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06,G06Q50/30,G08G1/00,H04B1/3827,H04L29/08,H04W4/02,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UBER TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMIN, SHALIN
RADHAKRISHNAN, MINA
HOLDEN, PAUL-PHILLIP
CHAMBERS, CURTIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
50623561
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROVIDING ON-DEMAND SERVICES THROUGH USE OF PORTABLE COMPUTING DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
A computer system operable to communicate with each of a plurality of provider computing devices to obtain location information. The computer system can determine multiple types of dynamic values for a given geographic region by (i) receiving set of data from a computing device operated by a requester, the set of data indicating a current location of the requester, (ii) determining a first set of dynamic values based at least in part on location information communicated by multiple provider computing devices of the plurality of provider computing devices that are associated with a first service type, and (iii) determining a second set of dynamic values based at least in part on the current location of the requester and location information communicated by one or more of the multiple provider computing devices that are associated with the first service type. Each of the multiple types of dynamic values being associated with one of the multiple possible service types.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising: one or more processors; a memory to store a set of instructions, wherein the set of instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to perform operations that include: communicating with each of a plurality of provider computing devices to obtain location information, wherein each provider computing device is operated by a corresponding service provider and is associated with one of multiple possible service types; determining multiple types of dynamic values for a given geographic region, each of the multiple types of dynamic values being associated with one of the multiple possible service types; wherein determining the multiple types of dynamic values includes: (i) receiving set of data from a computing device operated by a requester, the set of data indicating a current location of the requester; (ii) determining a first set of dynamic values based at least in part on location information communicated by multiple provider computing devices of the plurality of provider computing devices that are associated with a first service type; (iii) determining a second set of dynamic values based at least in part on the current location of the requester and location information communicated by one or more of the multiple provider computing devices that are associated with the first service type; and transmitting, to the computing device of the requester, data corresponding to the first and second sets of dynamic values to cause the computing device of the requester to display the first and second sets of dynamic values on a user interface.
2. The computer device of claim 1, wherein determining the first set of dynamic value includes determining multiple dynamic values of the first set, each of the multiple dynamic values of the first set being associated with the first service type.
3. The computer system of claim 2, wherein determining the second set of dynamic value includes determining multiple dynamic values of the second set, each of the multiple dynamic values of the second set being associated with the first service type.
4. The computer system of claim 3, wherein execution of the set of instructions further causes the computer system to perform operations that include: transmitting, to the computing device of the requester, instructions that enable the requester to provide input to select a second service type; in response to receiving, from the computing device of the requester, a second set of data indicating the selected second service type, determining (i) a third set of dynamic values based at least in part on location information communicated by multiple provider computing devices of the plurality of provider computing devices that are associated with a second service type, and (ii) determining a fourth set of dynamic values based at least in part on the current location of the requester and location information communicated by one or more of the multiple provider computing devices that are associated with the second service type; and transmitting, to the computing device of the requester, data corresponding to the third and fourth sets of dynamic values to cause the computing device of the requester to display the third and fourth sets of dynamic values on a user interface.
5. The computer system of claim 4, wherein the data corresponding to the third and fourth sets of dynamic values further causes the computing device of the requester to display the third and fourth sets of dynamic values by replacing the first and second sets of dynamic values with the third and fourth sets of dynamic values.
6. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the set of instructions for determining the multiple types of dynamic values, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the computer system to perform operations that include: determining a third set of dynamic values based at least in part on vehicle information associated with the multiple provider computing devices that are associated with the first service type.
7. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the first service type corresponds to a type of transport service previously selected by the requester.
8. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the first service type corresponds to a type of transport service most frequently used by the requester when requesting a transport service.
9. The computer system of claim 1, wherein execution of the set of instructions further causes the computer system to perform operations that include: transmitting, to the computing device of the requester, instructions that enable the requester to transmit a transport request for the first service type, the transport request specifying at least a pickup location.
10. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the pickup location is the current location of the requester.
11. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the pickup location is different from the current location of the requester.
12. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the first set of dynamic values correspond to estimated costs that are associated with the first service type.
13. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the second set of dynamic values correspond to estimated times of arrival that are associated with the first service type.
14. A method comprising: communicating with each of a plurality of provider computing devices to obtain location information, wherein each provider computing device is operated by a corresponding service provider and is associated with one of multiple possible service types; determining multiple types of dynamic values for a given geographic region, each of the multiple types of dynamic values being associated with one of the multiple possible service types; wherein determining the multiple types of dynamic values includes: (i) receiving set of data from a computing device operated by a requester, the set of data indicating a current location of the requester; (ii) determining a first set of dynamic values based at least in part on location information communicated by multiple provider computing devices of the plurality of provider computing devices that are associated with a first service type; (iii) determining a second set of dynamic values based at least in part on the current location of the requester and location information communicated by one or more of the multiple provider computing devices that are associated with the first service type; and transmitting, to the computing device of the requester, data corresponding to the first and second sets of dynamic values to cause the computing device of the requester to display the first and second sets of dynamic values on a user interface.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein determining the first set of dynamic value includes determining multiple dynamic values of the first set, each of the multiple dynamic values of the first set being associated with the first service type.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein determining the second set of dynamic value includes determining multiple dynamic values of the second set, each of the multiple dynamic values of the second set being associated with the first service type.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: transmitting, to the computing device of the requester, instructions that enable the requester to provide input to select a second service type; in response to receiving, from the computing device of the requester, a second set of data indicating the selected second service type, determining (i) a third set of dynamic values based at least in part on location information communicated by multiple provider computing devices of the plurality of provider computing devices that are associated with a second service type, and (ii) determining a fourth set of dynamic values based at least in part on the current location of the requester and location information communicated by one or more of the multiple provider computing devices that are associated with the second service type; and transmitting, to the computing device of the requester, data corresponding to the third and fourth sets of dynamic values to cause the computing device of the requester to display the third and fourth sets of dynamic values on a user interface.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the data corresponding to the third and fourth sets of dynamic values further causes the computing device of the requester to display the third and fourth sets of dynamic values by replacing the first and second sets of dynamic values with the third and fourth sets of dynamic values.
19. The method of claim 14, wherein determining the multiple types of dynamic values includes: determining a third set of dynamic values based at least in part on vehicle information associated with the multiple provider computing devices that are associated with the first service type.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a computing device, cause the computing device to perform operations that include: communicate with each of a plurality of provider computing devices to obtain location information, wherein each provider computing device is operated by a corresponding service provider and is associated with one of multiple possible service types; determine multiple types of dynamic values for a given geographic region, each of the multiple types of dynamic values being associated with one of the multiple possible service types; wherein determining the multiple types of dynamic values includes: (i) receiving set of data from a computing device operated by a requester, the set of data indicating a current location of the requester; (ii) determining a first set of dynamic values based at least in part on location information communicated by multiple provider computing devices of the plurality of provider computing devices that are associated with a first service type; (iii) determining a second set of dynamic values based at least in part on the current location of the requester and location information communicated by one or more of the multiple provider computing devices that are associated with the first service type; and transmit, to the computing device of the requester, data corresponding to the first and second sets of dynamic values to cause the computing device of the requester to display the first and second sets of dynamic values on a user interface.
</claims>
</document>
