<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06F21/34,G06K9/00,G06K9/22,G06Q20/32,G06Q20/40,G07C9/00,H04W12/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACETEC
</assignee>

<inventors>
TUSSY, KEVIN ALAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67140846
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM TO VERIFY IDENTITY
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for authenticating a user in an authentication system using a computing device configured to capture authentication biometric identity information. The authentication biometric identify information captured during an authentication session. The authentication biometric identify information may comprise or be derived from one or more images of the user being authenticated. The authentication biometric identify information is compared to root identify biometric information. The root identify biometric information is captured from a trusted source, such as trusted devices located at trusted locations, such as a government entity, financial institution, or business. Identity verification may occur by comparing the trusted root identify biometric information to the biometric identify information captured during an authentication session. Liveness determination may also occur to verify the user is a live person. Liveness determination may include comparing two images of the user such that the two images are captured at different distances from the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for verifying biometric authentication comprising: receiving root biometric identity information, corresponding to a user, from a trusted biometric information source to establish the root biometric identity information which is trusted and verified; storing the root biometric identity information in a database; subsequently, during an authentication process: capturing a first image with an authentication camera, the first image captured when the user is a first distance from the authentication camera; capturing a second image with the authentication camera, the second image captured when the user is a second distance from the authentication camera, such that the first distance is different than the second distance; processing the first image to create first authentication biometric information; processing the second image to create second authentication biometric information; comparing the first authentication biometric information to the second authentication biometric information; comparing the root biometric identity information with the first authentication biometric information, the second authentication biometric information, or both; authenticating the user when: the comparing determines that the first authentication biometric information matches the second authentication biometric information within a threshold, but are not identical; the comparing determines that the root biometric identity information matches the first authentication biometric information, the second authentication biometric information, or both within a threshold.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the authentication camera is one of the following type cameras: camera in a user's mobile device, camera in a user's computer, camera at an ATM machine, camera at a business point of sale, and camera at a financial institution.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the trusted biometric information source is a first camera at a trusted source.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the first camera is located at a financial institution.
5. The method of claim 3 wherein the first camera is located at a government agency office.
6. The method of claim 3 wherein an authentication server receives the root biometric identity information, the first authentication biometric information, and the second authentication biometric information and the authentication server performs the comparing.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the first image and the second image are of the user's face.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein one of the first image and the second image is distorted due to barrel distortion.
9. The method of claim 1 further comprising performing one or more additional liveness tests on the first image or the second image to verify the user is a live person during the authentication process.
10. A method for verifying biometric authentication of a user comprising: storing root biometric identity information of the user obtained from a trusted biometric sensing device which is located at a trusted location to establish the root biometric identity information as trusted and verified; during an authentication session: receiving a root biometric identity information; receiving authentication biometric identity information of the user from a computing device during an authentication session; comparing the root biometric identity information with the authentication biometric identity information; and authenticating the user when the root biometric identity information matches the authentication biometric identity information within a predetermined threshold.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the trusted biometric sensing device is at one of the following locations: financial institution, business point of sale, or government entity.
12. The method of claim 10 wherein the computing device used during an authentication session is located at a financial institution, ATM, business point of sale, or is the user's mobile device or user's personal computer.
13. The method of claim 10 wherein the trusted biometric sensing device includes a camera and the computing device used during an authentication session includes a camera.
14. The method of claim 10 wherein the root biometric identify information and the authentication biometric identity information is based on a facial image of the user and at least one other item of biometric information.
15. The method of claim 10 further comprising: capturing supplemental authentication biometric identity information from the user during the authentication session; comparing the supplemental authentication biometric identity information to the authentication biometric identity information; comparing the supplemental authentication biometric identity information to the root biometric identify information; authenticating the user when: the comparing determines that the authentication biometric identify information matches the supplemental authentication biometric information within a first threshold, but are not identical; the comparing determines that the root biometric identity information matches the supplemental authentication biometric information within the predetermined threshold.
16. An identity authentication system comprising: a first computing device configured to request and receive root biometric identity information, for a user, from a trusted source, the trusted source comprising a government affiliated entity or a financial institution; a second computing device configured to, during an authentication session: create authentication biometric information captured from the user during the authentication session; compare the authentication biometric information to the root biometric identity information; perform a liveness determination on the user during the authentication session using the authentication biometric information; responsive to the comparing and performing, authenticate the user if: the comparing determines the authentication biometric information matches the root biometric identity information within a threshold; and the liveness determination determines the user is a live person.
17. The system of claim 16 wherein the root biometric identity information is derived from an image.
18. The system of claim 17 wherein an image of the user can not be re-created from the root biometric identity information.
19. The system of claim 16 wherein the first computing device and the second computing device are the same computing device.
20. The system of claim 16 wherein the authentication biometric information is derived from at least a first image and a second image which are captured by a camera associated with the second computing device, the first image captured by the camera located at a first distance from the user and the second image captured by the camera located at a second distance from the user, the second distance less than the first distance, and the liveness determination comprises determining the second image has barrel distortion as compared to the first image.
</claims>
</document>
