<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MITO MEDICAL PRODUCTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KLEEVEN, ANTONIUS MARIA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57737936
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A DEVICE AND METHOD FOR THERMAL IMAGING OF A LIVING MAMMAL BODY SECTION
</title>

<abstract>
A device of and a method for obtaining thermal images of a living mammal body section. The device comprises a thermal energy storage surface structure for contacting the body section. In a calibration mode of operation, the thermal energy storage surface structure is brought at a reference temperature by transferring thermal energy to the thermal energy storage surface structure from a thermal energy transfer module that is controlled by a control circuit for restraining thermal energy transfer by the thermal energy transfer module in the presence of the body section at the thermal energy storage surface structure. In a registration mode of operation, by a thermal sensor, thermal images reflecting thermal energy storage over at least a portion of the thermal energy storage surface structure are obtained, with the body section contacting the thermal energy storage surface structure. From a series of time consecutive thermal images obtained, a region of interest is determined, based on storage of thermal energy by the thermal energy storage surface structure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device for obtaining thermal images of a living mammal body section, said device comprising: a thermal energy storage surface structure for contacting said body section, a thermal sensor for obtaining thermal images reflecting thermal energy storage over at least a portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure in a registration mode of operation of said device, a thermal energy transfer module for transferring thermal energy to said thermal energy storage surface structure for bringing same at a reference temperature in a calibration mode of operation of said device, and a control circuit arranged for monitoring presence of a body section at said thermal energy storage surface structure and for controlling thermal energy transfer by said thermal energy transfer module in said calibration mode in the presence of a body section at said thermal energy storage surface structure for restraining thermal energy transfer by said thermal energy transfer module to said body section.
2. The device according to claim 1, wherein said thermal energy transfer module has a limited thermal energy generation capacity matched to a thermal absorption capacity of said thermal energy storage surface structure, for bringing said thermal energy storage surface structure at said reference temperature in the absence of a body section.
3. The device according to claim 1, wherein said control circuit operates at least one of a group including: a proximity detector for detecting proximity of a body section at said thermal energy storage surface structure, a contact detector for detecting physical contact of a body section with said thermal energy storage surface structure, and a thermal energy transfer detector for detecting deviation of thermal energy transfer by said thermal energy transfer module.
4. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a data processing device operatively connected to said thermal energy transfer module, said data processing device being arranged for: operating said thermal energy transfer module for transferring thermal energy by said thermal energy transfer module to said thermal energy storage surface structure for bringing same at said reference temperature in said calibration mode in the absence of a body section at said thermal energy storage surface structure monitored by said control circuit, operating said thermal energy transfer module for restraining thermal energy transfer by said thermal energy transfer module in said calibration mode in the presence of a body section at said thermal energy storage surface structure monitored by said control circuit, and operating said thermal sensor in said registration mode when said thermal energy storage surface structure is at said reference temperature.
5. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a data processing device operatively connected to said thermal energy transfer module, and a signalling module, operatively connected to said data processing device, for signalling operation in said calibration mode for signalling operation in said registration mode, and for signalling completion of obtaining said thermal images.
6. The device according to claim 1, wherein said thermal sensor is a multipoint thermal sensor, remotely arranged from said thermal energy storage surface structure, for obtaining time consecutive thermal images over at least a portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure.
7. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a data processing device operatively connected to said thermal sensor, said data processing device arranged for processing obtained thermal images and arranged for determining a region of interest by calculating, from a series of time consecutive thermal images obtained, a heat absorption rate over at least part of said portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure.
8. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a data processing device operatively connected to said thermal sensor, said data processing device arranged for processing obtained thermal images, and arranged for determining a region of interest by calculating, from a series of time consecutive thermal images obtained, temperature differences over at least part of said portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure.
9. (canceled)
10. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a data processing device operatively connected to said thermal sensor, said data processing device arranged for processing obtained thermal images, and arranged for determining a region of interest by calculating, from a series of time consecutive thermal images obtained, a heat absorption rate over at least part of said portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure, wherein said thermal sensor is a digital pixel type thermal imaging camera and said data processing device is arranged for calculating said heat absorption rate on at least one of a pixel basis and a group of adjacent pixels.
11. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a data processing device operatively connected to said thermal sensor, said data processing device arranged for processing obtained thermal images, and arranged for determining a region of interest by calculating, from a series of time consecutive thermal images obtained, a heat absorption rate over at least part of said portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure, wherein said data processing device is arranged for exchanging data of a region of interest with a digital knowledge base, said knowledge base comprising information in support of a region of interest.
12. The device according to claim 1, wherein said thermal energy storage surface structure comprises one of a thermal energy storage plate and a thermal energy storage foil, having a flat or curved surface shape.
13. The device according to claim 1, wherein said thermal energy transfer module comprises a movably arranged heat conducting plate, having a surface shape adapted for thermally contacting said thermal energy storage surface structure, and a thermogenerator for bringing said heat conducting plate at a temperature for exchanging heat with said thermal energy storage surface structure when in thermal contact therewith, for bringing said thermal energy storage surface structure at said reference temperature.
14. The device according to claim 1, wherein said thermal energy transfer module is arranged for bringing said thermal energy storage surface structure at a reference temperature in a range of 20-30° C.
15. A method of determining a region of interest of a living mammal body section based on thermal imaging by a device for obtaining thermal images of a living mammal body section, said device comprising a thermal energy storage surface structure for contacting said body section, a thermal sensor for obtaining thermal images reflecting thermal energy storage over at least a portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure, a thermal energy transfer module for transferring thermal energy to said thermal energy storage surface structure and for bringing same at a reference temperature in a calibration mode of operation of said device, and a control circuit arranged for monitoring presence of a body section at said thermal energy storage surface structure and for controlling thermal energy transfer by said thermal energy transfer module, said method comprising a calibration mode of operation for bringing said thermal energy storage surface structure at a reference temperature by transferring thermal energy to said energy storage surface structure by said thermal energy transfer module, and a registration mode of operation, following said calibration mode of operation, for obtaining thermal images reflecting thermal energy storage over at least a portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure by said thermal sensor, said method controlled by a data processing device comprising the steps of: in said calibration mode of operation: detecting presence of a body section at said thermal energy storage surface structure, and if present, controlling thermal energy transfer by said thermal energy transfer module for restraining thermal energy transfer to said body section, if absent, bringing said thermal energy storage surface structure at said reference temperature, in said registration mode of operation: obtaining time consecutive thermal images of said portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure while storing thermal energy from said body section at said thermal energy storage surface structure, and calculating, from a series of time consecutive thermal images obtained, a region of interest based on storage of thermal energy by said thermal energy storage surface structure.
16. The device according to claim 1, wherein said thermal sensor is a digital pixel type thermal imaging camera, remotely arranged from said thermal energy storage surface structure, for obtaining time consecutive thermal images over at least a portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure.
17. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a data processing device operatively connected to said thermal sensor, said data processing device arranged for processing obtained thermal images, and arranged for determining a region of interest by calculating, from a series of time consecutive thermal images obtained, a heat absorption rate over at least part of said portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure based on compliance of said calculated heat absorption rate to a set profile of heat absorption rate values.
18. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a data processing device operatively connected to said thermal sensor, said data processing device arranged for processing obtained thermal images, and arranged for determining a region of interest by calculating, from a series of time consecutive thermal images obtained, a heat absorption rate over at least part of said portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure, wherein said data processing device is arranged for calculating said heat absorption rate as a temperature gradient over time.
19. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a data processing device operatively connected to said thermal sensor, said data processing device arranged for processing obtained thermal images, and arranged for determining a region of interest by calculating, from a series of time consecutive thermal images obtained, temperature differences over at least part of said portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure, wherein said data processing device is arranged for determining said region of interest based on compliance of said temperature differences to a set profile of temperature differences.
20. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a data processing device operatively connected to said thermal sensor, said data processing device arranged for processing obtained thermal images, and arranged for determining a region of interest by calculating, from a series of time consecutive thermal images obtained, temperature differences over at least part of said portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure, wherein said thermal sensor is a digital pixel type thermal imaging camera and said data processing device is arranged for calculating said temperature differences on at least one of a pixel basis and a group of adjacent pixels.
21. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a data processing device operatively connected to said thermal sensor, said data processing device arranged for processing obtained thermal images, and arranged for determining a region of interest by calculating, from a series of time consecutive thermal images obtained, temperature differences over at least part of said portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure, wherein said data processing device is arranged for exchanging data of a region of interest with a digital knowledge base, said knowledge base comprising information in support of a region of interest.
22. The device according to claim 1, wherein said thermal energy storage surface structure comprises on of an opaque thermal energy storage plate and an opaque thermal energy storage foil.
23. The device according to claim 1, wherein said thermal energy transfer module comprises a movably arranged heat conducting plate, having a surface shape adapted for thermally contacting said thermal energy storage surface structure, a heatsink arranged opposite said heat conducting plate, and a thermogenerator for bringing said heat conducting plate at a temperature for exchanging heat with said thermal energy storage surface structure when in thermal contact therewith, for bringing said thermal energy storage surface structure at said reference temperature, said thermogenerator comprises a plurality of thermoelectric components distributed across said heatsink.
</claims>
</document>
