<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/9535,G06N20/00,G06Q30/06,G06Q50/12,G16H20/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE MEWAH CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
Halimsaputera, Michael C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72916779
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR GENERATING RESTAURANT RECOMMENDATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Examples are described for restaurant recommendation systems and methods for assisting a user or group of users with discovering, locating, selecting, patronizing, and reviewing restaurants that match dietary restrictions/preferences and/or other contextual information for the user and/or group of users. In one embodiment, a restaurant recommendation system includes a communication interface for communicating with a user device of a user, a processor, and a storage device storing instructions executable by the processor to; compare user information including dietary restrictions of the user to restaurant information including menu items for a plurality of restaurants, select a restaurant from the plurality of restaurants based on menu items of the restaurant matching the dietary restrictions of the user, and provide a recommendation of the restaurant to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A restaurant recommendation system comprising: a communication interface for communicating with a user device of a user; a processor; and a storage device storing instructions executable by the processor to: compare user information including dietary restrictions of the user to restaurant information including menu items for a plurality of restaurants; select a restaurant from the plurality of restaurants based on menu items of the restaurant matching the dietary restrictions of the user; and provide a recommendation of the restaurant to the user.
2. The restaurant recommendation system of claim 1, wherein the user information further comprises a user location, and wherein the instructions are further executable to select the restaurant from the plurality of restaurants in response to a location of the restaurant being less than a threshold distance from the user location.
3. The restaurant recommendation system of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further executable to transmit a notification to the user device alerting the user to the recommendation of the restaurant, the notification including a location and a name of the restaurant.
4. The restaurant recommendation system of claim 3, wherein the notification is transmitted to the user device at a pre-determined time selected by the user.
5. The restaurant recommendation system of claim 1, wherein the user information includes data inferred via a machine learning algorithm based on one or more transactions previously conducted by the user.
6. The restaurant recommendation system of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further executable to select the restaurant from the plurality of restaurants in response to an average review rating of the restaurant exceeding a review rating threshold.
7. The restaurant recommendation system of claim 6, wherein review data for the restaurant is stored in a reviews database that is stored locally at the restaurant recommendation system or accessible via the communication interface, the reviews database comprising review data for the plurality of restaurants.
8. The restaurant recommendation system of claim 7, wherein the review data of the reviews database is generated using reviews submitted by users of the restaurant recommendation system and using information from review scraping logic, the review scraping logic including instructions executable by the processor to locate potential sources of menu item information and automatically analyze reviews in the potential sources to identify references to selected menu items.
9. The restaurant recommendation system of claim 1, wherein providing the recommendation of the restaurant includes: accessing a restaurant profiles database comprising information for a first candidate pool comprising the plurality of restaurants; filtering restaurants from the first candidate pool based on the user information and the restaurant information to generate a second candidate pool comprising a subset of the plurality of restaurants; ranking the restaurants in the second candidate pool; and selecting at least a highest-ranking restaurant from the second candidate pool, wherein the recommendation of the restaurant comprises a recommendation of at least the highest-ranking restaurant.
10. The restaurant recommendation system of claim 9, wherein ranking the restaurants in the second candidate pool comprises automatically scoring the restaurants in the second candidate pool based on a plurality of scoring factors including one or more of; a distance of each restaurant in the second candidate pool from a user location; a compliance level of menu items of each restaurant in the second candidate pool to the dietary restrictions of the user; and an average review rating of each restaurant in the second candidate pool.
11. A method for recommending a restaurant for a group of users, the method comprising: comparing user information for each user of the group of users to restaurant information for each restaurant of a plurality of restaurants, the user information including dietary restrictions of each user and the restaurant information including menu items for each restaurant; selecting one or more restaurants of the plurality of restaurants that includes menu items meeting the dietary restrictions of each user of the group of users, the one or more restaurants being further selected based on review data for the one or more restaurants; and providing a recommendation of the one or more restaurants to each user of the group of users.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein providing the recommendation of the one or more restaurants includes: accessing a restaurant profiles database comprising information for a first candidate pool comprising the plurality of restaurants; filtering restaurants from the first candidate pool based on the user information for each user of the group of users and the restaurant information to generate a second candidate pool comprising a subset of the plurality of restaurants; ranking the restaurants in the second candidate pool; and selecting at least a highest-ranking restaurant from the second candidate pool, wherein the recommendation of the one or more restaurants comprises a recommendation of at least the highest-ranking restaurant.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein ranking the restaurants in the second candidate pool is based on a plurality of scoring factors including one or more of: an estimated travel time between locations of each restaurant in the second candidate pool and a location of the group of users; a number of menu items of each restaurant in the second candidate pool matching the dietary restrictions of the group of users; and an average review rating of each restaurant in the second candidate pool.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein ranking the restaurants in the second candidate pool based on the plurality of scoring factors includes: for a restaurant of the restaurants in the second candidate pool: determining one or more of the plurality of scoring factors for the restaurant with respect to each user of the group of users; weighting each of the plurality of scoring factors for each user of the group of users to produce a plurality of weighted factors; and aggregating each of the plurality of weighted factors to produce a weighted average score for the restaurant, wherein a ranking of the restaurant is based on the weighted average score of the restaurant.
15. A method for recommending restaurants to a user, the method comprising: comparing user information to restaurant information for each restaurant of a plurality of restaurants, the user information including dietary restrictions of the user and the restaurant information including menu items for each restaurant; selecting one or more restaurants of the plurality of restaurants that includes menu items meeting the dietary restrictions of the user; and providing a ranked list of the one or more restaurants to a user device of the user.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the ranked list comprises a first restaurant of the plurality of restaurants, wherein the first restaurant includes a first number of menu items matching the dietary restrictions of the user, and wherein the ranked list comprises a second restaurant of the plurality of restaurants, wherein the second restaurant includes a second number of menu items matching the dietary restrictions of the user, and wherein the first restaurant is ranked higher than the second restaurant in the ranked list in response to the first number of menu items exceeding the second number of menu items.
17. The method of claim 15, the method further comprising: receiving a food order from the user for one or more menu items from a restaurant of the one or more restaurants; and propagating the food order to the restaurant.
18. The method of claim 17, the method further comprising: receiving payment information from the user; and propagating the payment information to the restaurant or a payment service associated with the restaurant.
19. The method of claim 18, the method further comprising: coordinating a delivery, pick up, or dine in experience for the food order; prompting the user to provide a review of the restaurant; and storing the review in a reviews database associated with the restaurant.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein the ranked list comprises a first restaurant of the plurality of restaurants and a second restaurant of the plurality of restaurants, wherein a first ranking of the first restaurant is higher than a second ranking of the second restaurant in response to a first estimated travel time between the first restaurant and a user location being less than a second estimated travel time between the second restaurant and the user location.
</claims>
</document>
