<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01H71/32,H01H89/00,H02H1/00,H02H7/085,H02M7/00,H02P29/68,H05K7/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EATON INTELLIGENT POWER
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOUGLASS, ROBERT STEPHEN
GERVING, KARSTEN
LANG, VOLKER
MEISSNER, JOHANNES
SCHMITZ, GERD
BAUSCH, CHRISTOPH
DAVID, JAMES
FISHER, BRANDON WILLIAM
GRIFFITHS, JUSTIN KEITH
ZURFACE, AUSTIN ROBERT
URIAN, JEFF HOWARD
DUKARIC, DENNIS
MOLITOR, UTE
PHILIPSOHN, MADELINE
ROESNER, NORBERT
D'AMICO, PAOLO
FRIEDRICHSEN, LUTZ
SCHROEDER, KAI
HAYLOCK, MATT
RAMSEYER, NILES STEPHEN
WANG, MENG
PIYABONGKARN, DAMRONGRIT
SHAH, JALPA
MENSCH, MARTIN WAYNE
OTTE, JULIA
VÖLLMAR, GUIDO
Soni, Asheesh
Suda, Bharath
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67985656
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM, METHOD, AND APPARATUS FOR MULTI-PORT POWER CONVERTER AND INVERTER ASSEMBLY
</title>

<abstract>
A multi-port power converter includes a housing that includes a plurality of ports structured to electrically interface to a plurality of loads, the plurality of loads having distinct electrical characteristics. The multi-port power converter also includes a plurality of solid state components configured to provide selected electrical power outputs and to accept selected electrical power inputs and a plurality of solid state switches configured to provide selected connectivity between the plurality of solid state components and the plurality of ports.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A multi-port power converter, comprising: a housing comprising a plurality of ports structured to electrically interface to a plurality of loads, the plurality of loads having distinct electrical characteristics; a plurality of solid state components configured to provide selected electrical power outputs and to accept selected electrical power inputs; and a plurality of solid state switches configured to provide selected connectivity between the plurality of solid state components and the plurality of ports.
2. The multi-port power converter of claim 1, wherein the distinct electrical characteristics are selected from the electrical characteristics consisting of: a DC voltage, an AC voltage or voltage equivalent, a load power rating, a regenerative power rating, a current rating, a current directionality, a response time characteristic, a frequency characteristic, and a phase characteristic.
3. The multi-port power converter of claim 1, wherein the plurality of ports comprises at least two AC interface ports and at least three DC interface ports.
4. The multi-port power converter of claim 1, further comprising: a controller, the controller comprising: a component bank configuration circuit structured to interpret a port electrical interface description, the port electrical interface description comprising a description of at least a portion of the distinct electrical characteristics; and a component bank implementation circuit structured to provide solid switch states in response to the port electrical interface description, and wherein the plurality of solid state switches are responsive to the solid switch states.
5. The multi-port power converter of claim 1, wherein the plurality of loads having distinct electrical characteristics is a superset of the plurality of loads having distinct electrical characteristics sufficient to encompass a selected class of applications.
6. The multi-port power converter of claim 5, wherein each application of the selected class of applications comprises at least one of a vehicle, an off-road vehicle, and a set of load types for a vehicle.
7. The multi-port power converter of claim 1, further comprising, one or more fuses or contractors configured to be coupled into selected circuits by the plurality of solid state switches.
8. The multi-port power converter of claim 7, further comprising: a fuse load circuit structured to determine that no current is demanded for a fuse load, and to further determine that contractors associated with the one or more fuses are open; an offset voltage determination circuit structured to determine an offset voltage corresponding to at least one component in a fuse circuit associated with the one or more fuses, in response to the determining that no current is demanded for the fuse load; and an offset data management circuit structured to store the offset voltage, and to communicate a current calculation offset voltage for use by a controller to determine current flow through the one or more fuses.
9. The multi-port power converter of claim 7, wherein the one or more fuses are in thermal connection to one or more laminated layers.
10. The multi-port power converter of claim 1, wherein the multi-port power converter is integrated in a mobile application, the mobile application comprising: a motive power circuit, the motive power circuit comprising a power storage device and an electrical load, wherein the power storage device and the electrical load are selectively electrically coupled through a power bus; and a power distribution unit (PDU) electrically interposed between the power storage device and the electrical load, wherein the PDU comprises a breaker/relay positioned on one of a high side and a low side of the power storage device, wherein the breaker/relay comprises an arc suppression assembly structured to guide and disperse an opening arc between each of a plurality of moveable contacts of the breaker/relay and a corresponding plurality of fixed contacts.
11. The multi-port power converter of claim 1, wherein the multi-port power converter is integrated in a mobile application, the mobile application comprising: a motive power circuit, the motive power circuit comprising a power storage device and an electrical load, wherein the power storage device and the electrical load are selectively electrically coupled through a power bus; and a power distribution unit (PDU) electrically interposed between the power storage device and the electrical load, wherein the PDU comprises a breaker/relay positioned on one of a high side and a low side of the power storage device, wherein the breaker/relay comprises: an armature operationally coupled to a movable contact; a standard on/off circuit having at least two states, wherein the standard on/off circuit in a first state provides an actuating signal and in a second state prevents the actuating signal; and a current response circuit structured to determine a current in the power bus, and further structured to block the actuating signal of the standard on/off circuit in response to the current in the power bus indicating a high current value, wherein the armature is responsive to the actuating signal to electrically couple the movable contact to a fixed contact.
12. The multi-port power converter of claim 11, wherein the breaker/relay device is configured to interrupt a circuit for an electrical vehicle system, a precharge circuit is electrically coupled in parallel to the breaker/relay, and a pyro-switch device in positioned on the other of the high side or the low side.
13. The multi-port power converter of claim 1, wherein the multi-port power converter is integrated in a mobile application, the mobile application comprising: a power distribution unit (PDU), the PDU including a current protection circuit disposed in a motive electrical power path, the current protection circuit including a thermal fuse and a contractor in a series arrangement with the thermal fuse; a current source circuit electrically coupled to the thermal fuse and structured to inject a current across the thermal fuse; and a voltage determination circuit electrically coupled to the thermal fuse and structured to determine at least one of an injected voltage amount and a thermal fuse impedance value.
14. An integrated inverter assembly, comprising: a main cover and an opposing back cover; a coolant channel disposed between a coolant channel cover and a coolant channel separating body; and wherein power electronics of the integrated inverter assembly are thermally coupled to the coolant channel.
15. The integrated inverter assembly of claim 14, wherein the coolant channel separating body is friction-stir welded to each of the main cover and the coolant channel separating body.
16. The integrated inverter assembly of claim 14, further comprising a second coolant channel, wherein the coolant channel is disposed on a first side of the coolant channel separating body, and wherein the second coolant channel is disposed on a second side of the coolant channel separating body.
17. The integrated inverter assembly of claim 14, further comprising: wherein the main cover is cast; wherein the coolant channel separating body is forged; and wherein the coolant channel cover is stamped.
18. The integrated inverter assembly of claim 14, further comprising wherein the main cover defines a plurality of coupling threaded bores, and wherein the opposing back cover defines a corresponding plurality of coupling threaded bores.
19. The integrated inverter assembly of claim 18, wherein the corresponding plurality of coupling threaded bores further each comprise an unthreaded pilot portion of bores, and wherein the unthreaded pilot portion of bores comprises a first height, wherein a plurality of coupling screws each comprise a threaded portion having a second height, and wherein the first height is greater than the second height.
20. The integrated inverter assembly of claim 19, wherein the main cover further defines a narrowed portion of each of the plurality of coupling threaded bores, and wherein each of the plurality of coupling screws further comprises a thin neck portion, and wherein the threaded portion of each of the plurality of coupling screws has a diameter greater than the thin neck portion.
21. The integrated inverter assembly of claim 14, further comprising a cure-in-place-gasket positioned between the main cover and the opposing back cover.
22. The integrated inverter assembly of claim 21, wherein the cure-in-place-gasket is dispensed on the main cover.
23. The integrated inverter assembly of claim 21, wherein at least one of the main cover and the opposing back cover comprises a ledge having a selected height such that the cure-in-place-gasket has a selected compression when the main cover is coupled to the opposing back cover.
24. The integrated inverter assembly of claim 14, wherein at least one of a coolant inlet or a coolant outlet of the coolant channel comprises a lock-free quick connector.
</claims>
</document>
