<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/01,A61B5/145,A61B5/1455,G06T7/00,G06T7/80,G06T7/90,G16H30/40,H04N5/225,H04N9/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHOU, CHENG-FU
COMPAL ELECTRONICS
NATIONAL TAIWAN UNIVERSITY
SU, TUNG-HUNG
Chen, Shann-Ching
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOU, CHENG-FU
SU, TUNG-HUNG
Chen, Shann-Ching
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74101534
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD OF AND IMAGING SYSTEM FOR CLINICAL SIGN DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure provides a method of and an imaging system for clinical sign detection. The method uses an imaging system having an RGB image sensor and the processing device disclosed herein. An image of a patient or examinee is captured by the RGB image sensor to generate an RGB image. Clinical signs of the patient or examinee are detected by the processing device based on the RGB images.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of clinical sign detection, applicable to an imaging system having an RGB image sensor and a processing device, comprising: capturing an image of a patient or examinee by the RGB image sensor to generate an RGB image; and detecting clinical signs of the patient or examinee based on the RGB image by the processing device.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein after the step of generating the RGB image, the method further comprises: setting the RGB image in each RGB channel as inputs for detecting the clinical signs of the patient or examinee.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein after the step of generating the RGB image, the method further comprises: extracting melanin components and hemoglobin components from the RGB image to generate a melanin image and a hemoglobin image; setting the RGB image in each RGB channel, the melanin image, and the hemoglobin image as inputs for detecting the clinical signs of the patient or examinee.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of detecting the clinical signs of the patient or examinee based on the RGB image comprises: locating at least one key region of interest (ROI) from the RGB image based on a deep learning neural network based (DNN-based) localization algorithm; determining at least one abnormal ROI from the RGB image based on a DNN-based classification algorithm; and identifying the clinical signs based on at least one of the key ROI and the abnormal ROI.
5. The method according to claim 4 further comprises: feeding the at least one key ROI to a machine learning classifier to produce a predicted outcome of the patient or examinee.
6. The method according to claim 4 further comprises: feeding the at least one key ROI to a machine learning classifier to produce a recommended examination for the patient or examinee.
7. The method according to claim 4 further comprises: converting the at least one key ROI and the at least one abnormal ROI to a text-based medical record; converting the text-based medical record to a FHIR-format medical record; and feeding the FHIR-format medical record to a machine learning classifier to produce a recommended examination for the patient or examinee.
8. The method according to claim 4 further comprises: converting the at least one key ROI and the at least one abnormal ROI to a text-based medical record; obtaining an original medical record of the patient or examinee, wherein the original medical record comprises demographic information and medical data; combining and converting the text-based medical record and the original medical record to a combined FHIR-format medical record; and feeding the FHIR-format medical record to a machine learning classifier to produce a predicted outcome of the patient or examinee.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the imaging system further comprises a thermal image sensor, and wherein the method further comprises: capturing an image of the patient or examinee by the thermal image sensor to generate a thermal image.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein after the step of generating the RGB image, the method further comprises: setting the RGB image in each RGB channel and the thermal image as inputs for detecting the clinical signs of the patient or examinee.
11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the imaging system further comprises a hyperspectral image sensor, and wherein the method further comprises: capturing an image of the patient or examinee by the hyperspectral image sensor to generate a hyperspectral image.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein after the step of generating the RGB image, the method further comprises: extracting a melanin volume fraction, total hemoglobin volume fractions, and oxygen saturation from the hyperspectral image to generate the melanin image, the oxygen image, and the blood image; setting the RGB image in each RGB channel, the melanin image, the oxygen image, and the blood image as inputs for detecting the clinical signs of the patient or examinee.
13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the imaging system further comprises a thermal image sensor and a hyperspectral image sensor, and wherein the method further comprises: capturing images of the patient or examinee by the thermal image sensor and the hyperspectral image sensor to respectively generate a thermal image and a hyperspectral image.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein after the step of generating the RGB image, the method further comprises: extracting a quantification of melanin, oxygen saturation, and blood/total hemoglobin from the hyperspectral image to generate the melanin image, the oxygen image, and the blood image; setting the RGB image in each RGB channel, the thermal image, the melanin image, the oxygen image, and the blood image as inputs for detecting the clinical signs of the patient or examinee.
15. The method according to claim 1, wherein the imaging system further comprises a light source and a color checker, and wherein the step of capturing the image of the patient or examinee by the RGB image sensor to generate an RGB image further comprises: controlling the light source; capturing an image of the patient or examinee and the color checker by the RGB image sensor; and applying a color calibration algorithm on the captured image of the patient or examinee and the color checker to generate the RGB image.
16. The method according to claim 15, wherein the color checker with a predetermined size is used as a relative reference to determine a size of at least one region of interest (ROI) in the captured image.
17. The method according to claim 1, wherein the imaging system further comprises a distance sensor, and wherein before the step of capturing the image of the patient or examinee by the RGB image sensor, the method further comprises: suggesting an optimal distance between the RGB sensor and the patient or examinee by the distance sensor.
18. The method according to claim 1, wherein the RGB image is an HEENT image or any other body parts' image.
19. An imaging system comprising: an RGB image sensor, configured to capture an image of a patient or examinee to generate an RGB image; and a processing device, comprising: a memory, configured to store data; and a processor, configured to obtain the RGB image from the RGB image sensor and detect clinical signs of the patient or examinee based on the RGB image.
20. The imaging system according to claim 19 further comprises: a thermal image sensor, configured to capture an image of the patient or examinee to generate a thermal image for detecting the clinical signs.
21. The imaging system according to claim 19 further comprises: a hyperspectral image sensor, configured to capture an image of the patient or examinee to generate a hyperspectral image for detecting the clinical signs.
22. The imaging system according to claim 19 further comprises: a light source, controllable during image capturing; and a color checker, wherein the RGB image sensor captures an image of the patient or examinee and the color checker, and the processing device applies a color calibration algorithm on the captured image to generate the RGB image.
23. The imaging system according to claim 19 further comprises: a distance sensor, configured to measure a distance between the RGB sensor and the patient or examinee and suggest an optimal distance between the RGB sensor and the patient or examinee.
</claims>
</document>
