<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/18,B60W40/068,B60W50/00,G01C21/34,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VOLVO CAR CORPORATION
UBER TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
JONASSON, MATS
POEPPEL, SCOTT C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69773965
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Driving Surface Friction Estimations for Autonomous Vehicles
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for generating data indicative of a friction associated with a driving surface, and for using friction data as part of controlling autonomous vehicle operations. In one example, a computing system can detect an event including at least one of an acceleration, a deceleration, or a stop associated with an autonomous vehicle and obtain, in response to detecting the event, operational data associated with the autonomous vehicle during the event. The computing system can determine, based at least in part on the operational data, data indicative of a friction associated with a surface upon which the autonomous vehicle is traveling during the event. The computing system can control the autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the data indicative of the friction associated with the surface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory computer-readable media that collectively store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing system to perform operations, the operations comprising: detecting an event including at least one of an acceleration, a deceleration, or a stop associated with an autonomous vehicle; obtaining, in response to detecting the event, operational data associated with the autonomous vehicle during the event; determining, based at least in part on the operational data, data indicative of a friction associated with a surface upon which the autonomous vehicle is traveling during the event; and controlling the autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the data indicative of the friction associated with the surface.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein controlling the autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the data indicative of the friction comprises at least one of: generating a motion plan based at last in part on the data indicative of the friction; or generating a route plan based at least in part on the data indicative of the friction.
3. The computing system of claim 2, further comprising: generating at least one motion planning constraint based at least in part on the data indicative of the friction; and generating at least one route planning constraint based at least in part on the data indicative of the friction.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein detecting the event is based at least in part on motion planning data associated with the vehicle.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: determining data indicative of a confidence associated with the data indicative of the friction.
6. The computing system of claim 5, wherein the operations further comprise: lowering the confidence based on a time since the operational data was obtained.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: initiating a wheel-based action during the event, the wheel-based action associated with movement of at least one tire of the autonomous vehicle relative to the surface; and wherein the operational data is associated with the wheel-based action.
8. The computing system of claim 7, wherein detecting the event comprises detecting a stop of the autonomous vehicle; the wheel-based action comprises providing an input torque at a steering system of the autonomous vehicle while the autonomous vehicle is stopped; the operational data is indicative of at least one of the input torque, a steering force that results from the input torque, or a steering displacement that results from the input torque; and determining data indicative of the friction is based on at least one of the input torque, the steering force, or the steering displacement.
9. The computing system of claim 8, wherein: the input torque increases over time; and determining data indicative of the friction comprises determining data indicative of a peak steering force based on analyzing a change in the steering force relative to a change in the steering displacement.
10. The computing system of claim 9, wherein: the steering displacement includes at least one of a wheel rotation or a steering angle.
11. The computing system of claim 7, wherein: the wheel-based action includes providing one or more input braking forces to a braking system of the autonomous vehicle as part of decreasing speed of the autonomous vehicle; the operational data includes data indicative of at least one of the input braking forces, a wheel torque associated with at least one of the input braking forces, or a wheel rotation associated with at least one of the input braking forces; and determining data indicative of the friction is based on the data indicative of at least one of the input braking forces, the wheel torque, or the wheel rotation.
12. The computing system of claim 11, wherein: the one or more input braking forces are increased over time; and the operations further comprise determining an amount of the one or more input braking forces that is sufficient to cause a slip of a tire corresponding to a first wheel assembly.
13. The computing system of claim 11, wherein: detecting the event comprises detecting a plurality of events including a decrease in speed of the autonomous vehicle; and the operations further comprise rotating between a plurality of wheel assemblies that receive the one or more input braking forces over the plurality of deceleration events.
14. The computing system of claim 7, wherein: the wheel-based action includes providing one or more input propulsion forces to a propulsion system of the autonomous vehicle as part of the event; the operational data includes data indicative of at least one of the input propulsion forces, a wheel torque associated with at least one of the input propulsion forces, or a wheel rotation associated with at least one of the input propulsion forces; and determining data indicative of the friction is based on the data indicative of at least one of the input propulsion forces, the wheel torque, or the wheel rotation.
15. The computing system of claim 1, wherein: the event is a future event; and detecting the future event is based on at least one of map data, motion planning data, or route planning data associated with the autonomous vehicle.
16. The computing system of claim 1, wherein: detecting the event is based at least in part on sensor data indicating at least one ongoing event.
17. The computing system of claim 1, wherein: determining data indicative of the friction associated with the surface comprises determining whether the friction associated with the surface satisfies one or more thresholds.
18. An autonomous vehicle, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory computer-readable media that collectively store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: detecting an event including at least one of an acceleration, a deceleration, or a stop associated with an autonomous vehicle; obtaining, in response to detecting the event, operational data associated with the autonomous vehicle during the event; determining, based at least in part on the operational data, data indicative of a friction associated with a surface upon which the vehicle is traveling during the event; and generating at least one constraint for the autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the data indicative of the friction associated with the surface.
19. The autonomous vehicle of claim 18, wherein the at least one constraint includes at least one of a motion planning constraint, a mapping constraint, or an operational constraint.
20. A computer-implemented method, comprising: detecting, by a computing system comprising one or more computing devices, an event including at least one of an acceleration, a deceleration, or a stop associated with an autonomous vehicle; obtaining, by the computing system in response to detecting the event, operational data associated with the autonomous vehicle during the event; determining, by the computing system and based at least in part on the operational data, data indicative of a friction associated with a surface upon which the autonomous vehicle is traveling during the event; and controlling, by the computing system, the autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the data indicative of the friction associated with the surface.
</claims>
</document>
