<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/215,G06F16/906,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAN, JIE
LI, FENG
SHARMA, RAHUL
SONG, XIAODAN
WANG, XUERUI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70459651
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING BASED AUTOMATIC AUDIENCE SEGMENT IN AD TARGETING
</title>

<abstract>
Generating granular clusters for real-time processing is provided. The systems can identify tokens based on aggregating input from computing devices over a time interval. The systems can identify, based on metrics, a subset of tokens for cluster generation. The systems can generate, via a clustering technique, token clusters from the subset of the tokens, each of the token clusters comprising two or more tokens from the subset of the tokens. The systems can apply a de-duplication technique to each of the token clusters. The systems can apply a filtering technique to the token clusters to remove tokens erroneously grouped in a token cluster. The systems can assign, based on a selection process, a label for each of the token clusters. The systems can activate, based on a number of remaining tokens in each of the token clusters, a subset of the token clusters for real-time content selection.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system to generate granular clusters for real-time processing, comprising: a data processing system comprising one or more processors configured to: identify a plurality of tokens from aggregated input data received via a network from a plurality of computing devices over a time interval; identify a subset of the plurality of tokens for cluster generation; generate a plurality of token clusters from the subset of the plurality of tokens, each of the plurality of token clusters comprising two or more tokens from the subset of the plurality of tokens; de-duplicate each of the plurality of token clusters; filter the plurality of token clusters to remove tokens erroneously grouped in a token cluster of the plurality of token clusters; assign a label for each of the plurality of token clusters; select, based on a number of remaining tokens in each of the plurality of token clusters, a subset of the plurality of token clusters; and transmit the subset of the plurality of token clusters for real-time content selection via the network.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the data processing system is further configured to: apply a weight to at least one of a plurality of metrics comprising a coherence metric, a granularity metric, a coverage metric, a stability metric, a freshness metric, and a readability metric; and generate the subset of the plurality of tokens based on the weight applied to the at least one of the plurality of metrics.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the data processing system is further configured to: generate the plurality of token clusters based on a distance metric between tokens of the subset of the plurality of tokens.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the data processing system is further configured to generate the plurality of token clusters via hierarchical agglomerative clustering, K-means clustering, or min-max clustering.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the data processing system is further configured to: generate the plurality of token clusters using a hierarchical agglomerative clustering technique configured to perform at least one of complete linkage, single linkage, or group average linkage.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the data processing system is further configured to: subsequent to generation of the plurality of token clusters, de-duplicate the plurality of token clusters via white space removal, bag of tokens removal, bag of stemmed tokens removal, entity removal, or similar meaning removal.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the data processing system is further configured to filter tokens from the plurality of token clusters based on a query hits metric or a centroid threshold.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the data processing system is further configured to: identify a plurality of candidate labels for each of the plurality of token clusters; determine a score for each of the plurality of candidate labels; and select a highest scoring label from the plurality of candidate labels as the label for each of the plurality of token clusters.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the data processing system is further configured to: determine that the number of remaining tokens in a first token cluster of the plurality of token clusters is less than or equal to a threshold; and disable the first token cluster of the plurality of token clusters to prevent the first token cluster from display via a graphical user interface.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the data processing system is further configured to: determine that the number of remaining tokens in a first token cluster of the plurality of token clusters is greater than or equal to a threshold; identify a plurality of highest scoring tokens in the first token cluster; and activate the first token cluster and the plurality of highest scoring tokens for display via a graphical user interface.
11. A method of generating granular clusters for real-time processing, comprising: identifying, by one or more processors of a data processing system, a plurality of tokens from aggregated input data received via a network from a plurality of computing devices over a time interval; identifying, by the one or more processors, a subset of the plurality of tokens for cluster generation; generating, by the one or more processors, a plurality of token clusters from the subset of the plurality of tokens, each of the plurality of token clusters comprising two or more tokens from the subset of the plurality of tokens; de-duplicating, by the one or more processors, each of the plurality of token clusters; filtering, by the one or more processors, the plurality of token clusters to remove tokens erroneously grouped in a token cluster of the plurality of token clusters; assigning, by the one or more processors, a label for each of the plurality of token clusters; selecting, by the one or more processors based on a number of remaining tokens in each of the plurality of token clusters, a subset of the plurality of token clusters; and transmitting, by the one or more processors, the subset of the plurality of token clusters for real-time content selection via the network.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: applying a weight to at least one of a plurality of metrics comprising a coherence metric, a granularity metric, a coverage metric, a stability metric, a freshness metric, and a readability metric; and generating the subset of the plurality of tokens based on the weight applied to the at least one of the plurality of metrics.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: generating the plurality of token clusters based on a distance metric between tokens of the subset of the plurality of tokens.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising generating the plurality of token clusters via hierarchical agglomerative clustering, K-means clustering, or min-max clustering.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: generating the plurality of token clusters using a hierarchical agglomerative clustering technique configured to perform at least one of complete linkage, single linkage, or group average linkage.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising: de-duplicating, subsequent to generation of the plurality of token clusters, of the plurality of token clusters via white space removal, bag of tokens removal, bag of stemmed tokens removal, entity removal, or similar meaning removal.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising filtering tokens from the plurality of token clusters based on a query hits metric or a centroid threshold.
18. The method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying a plurality of candidate labels for each of the plurality of token clusters; determining a score for each of the plurality of candidate labels; and selecting a highest scoring label from the plurality of candidate labels as the label for each of the plurality of token clusters.
19. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining that the number of remaining tokens in a first token cluster of the plurality of token clusters is less than or equal to a threshold; and disabling the first token cluster of the plurality of token clusters to prevent the first token cluster from display via a graphical user interface.
20. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining that the number of remaining tokens in a first token cluster of the plurality of token clusters is greater than or equal to a threshold; identifying a plurality of highest scoring tokens in the first token cluster; and activating the first token cluster and the plurality of highest scoring tokens for display via a graphical user interface.
</claims>
</document>
