<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B17/327,H04B17/336,H04B17/382,H04B7/06,H04B7/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUALCOMM
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI, JUNYI
RAGHAVAN, VASANTHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67541205
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES FOR ASSISTED BEAM REFINEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described herein for a beam refinement procedure between a first communications device (e.g., base station) and a second communications device (e.g., user equipment (UE)) that uses long-term feedback information from the second communications device to maintain a beam pair link established for a downlink connection. The second communications device may transmit long-term feedback information to the first communications device in response to a request or a trigger event occurring. The long-term feedback information may be sensor information measured by the second communications device or uplink training symbols. The first communications device may localize a beam search of the beam refinement procedure using the long-term feedback information. The localized beam search may be an example of a device-specific search. The first communications device may also generate a long-term map of channel conditions based on the long-term feedback data. The long-term map may also be used to localize the search.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for wireless communication, comprising: identifying one or more beam pair links between a first communications device and a second communications device, wherein the one or more beam pair links are established using a beam management procedure; receiving feedback information from the second communications device after the one or more beam pair links are established using the beam management procedure; identifying a subset of directional downlink beams to use in a downlink beam refinement procedure implemented by the first communications device based at least in part on receiving the feedback information from the second communications device; and performing the downlink beam refinement procedure using the subset of directional downlink beams.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: localizing a search for the downlink beam refinement procedure based at least in part on receiving the feedback information, wherein performing the downlink beam refinement procedure is based at least in part on localizing the search.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the feedback information includes information about a position of the second communications device in a coverage area of the first communications device, the information being measured by one or more sensors of the second communications device.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the information includes one or more of global positioning system (GPS) data, accelerometer data, or gyroscope data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the feedback information includes a plurality of uplink training symbols transmitted by the second communications device.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: performing a channel estimation based at least in part on receiving the plurality of uplink training symbols, wherein identifying the subset of directional downlink beams is based at least in part on performing the channel estimation.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the beam management procedure includes a set of one or more L1/L2 procedures to acquire or maintain a set of one or more transmission reception points (TRxPs), or communications device beams.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the beam management procedure is a P-1/2/3 beam management procedure.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a covariance matrix based at least in part on the feedback information received from the second communications device, wherein performing the downlink beam refinement procedure is based at least in part on the covariance matrix.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a map of a channel environment of the first communications device using the feedback information received from the second communications device, wherein the map indicates historical conditions of the channel environment learned from the feedback information received from the second communications device and other feedback information received previously from a plurality of second communications devices.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: localizing a search for the downlink beam refinement procedure based at least in part on the feedback information received from the second communications device and the map of the channel environment.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the map of the channel environment is a statistical covariance matrix configured to indicate historical fading conditions of a channel matrix.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting a message to the second communications device requesting the feedback information, wherein receiving the feedback information is based at least in part on transmitting the message.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a trigger event for initiating the downlink beam refinement procedure for the one or more beam pair links established using the beam management procedure, wherein identifying the subset of directional downlink beams is based at least in part on collecting information after identifying the trigger event.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: receiving, from the second communications device, channel quality indicator (CQI) information or beam indices information about one or more directional beams of the one or more beam pair links, wherein identifying the trigger event is based at least in part on receiving the CQI information or the beam indices information.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: determining that a change in the CQI information or the beam indices information as compared to previous CQI information or previous beam indices information satisfies a predetermined criteria, wherein identifying the trigger event is based at least in part on determining that the change in the CQI information or the beam indices information satisfies the predetermined criteria.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the CQI information for a plurality of beam indices includes one or more of a reference signal receive power (RSRP), a reference signal received quality (RSRQ), a signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), or a signal-to-interference and noise ratio (SINR).
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the feedback information comprises information accumulated over a time period.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein the feedback information comprises information corresponding to wideband signals.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein the downlink beam refinement procedure is device-specific.
21. A method for wireless communication, comprising: identifying of one or more beam pair links between a first communications device and a second communications device, wherein the one or more beam pair links are established using a beam management procedure; transmitting feedback information to the first communications device after the one or more beam pair links are established using the beam management procedure; receiving instructions from the first communications device regarding a downlink beam refinement procedure based at least in part on transmitting the feedback information; and performing the downlink beam refinement procedure based at least in part on receiving the instructions.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising: measuring a position of the second communications device in a coverage area of the first communications device using one or more sensors, wherein the feedback information includes information about the position of the second communications device.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the information includes one or more of global positioning system (GPS) data, accelerometer data, or gyroscope data.
24. The method of claim 21, further comprising: transmitting a plurality of uplink training symbols to the first communications device, the plurality of uplink training symbols configured to provide the first communications device with channel estimation data, wherein the feedback information includes the plurality of uplink training symbols.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein the beam management procedure includes a set of one or more L1/L2 procedures to acquire or maintain a set of one or more transmission reception points (TRxPs), or communications device beams.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein the beam management procedure is a P-1/2/3 beam management procedure.
27. The method of claim 21, further comprising: identifying a trigger event for initiating the downlink beam refinement procedure after the one or more beam pair links are established using the beam management procedure, wherein transmitting the feedback information is based at least in part on identifying the trigger event.
28. The method of claim 21, further comprising: receiving a message at the second communications device requesting the feedback information, wherein transmitting the feedback information is based at least in part on receiving the message.
29. An apparatus for wireless communication, comprising: a processor; memory in electronic communication with the processor; and instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: identify one or more beam pair links between a first communications device and a second communications device, wherein the one or more beam pair links are established using a beam management procedure; receive feedback information from the second communications device after the one or more beam pair links are established using the beam management procedure; identify a subset of directional downlink beams to use in a downlink beam refinement procedure implemented by the first communications device based at least in part on receiving the feedback information from the second communications device; and perform the downlink beam refinement procedure using the subset of directional downlink beams.
30. An apparatus for wireless communication, comprising: a processor; memory in electronic communication with the processor; and instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: identify one or more beam pair links between a first communications device and a second communications device, wherein the one or more beam pair links are established using a beam management procedure; transmit feedback information to the first communications device after the one or more beam pair links are established using the beam management procedure; receive instructions from the first communications device regarding a downlink beam refinement procedure based at least in part on transmitting the feedback information; and perform the downlink beam refinement procedure based at least in part on receiving the instructions.
</claims>
</document>
