<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
VACULIN, ROMAN
VARSHNEY, KUSH R.
REMY, SEKOU L.
RAMAN, RAVI KIRAN
PISSADAKI, ELEFTHERIA K.
HIND, MICHAEL
BORE, NELSON K.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69774173
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISTRIBUTED PLATFORM FOR COMPUTATION AND TRUSTED VALIDATION
</title>

<abstract>
An example operation may include one or more of generating a plurality of successive data points of an iterative simulation based on predefined checkpoints, each data point identifying an evolving state of the iterative simulation with respect to a previous data point among the successive data points, transmitting a blockchain request for validating state data within a first data point among the plurality of successive data points to a first subset of endorsing nodes of a blockchain network, and transmitting a blockchain request for validating state data within a second data point among the plurality of successive data points to a second subset of endorsing nodes which are mutually exclusive from the first subset of endorsing nodes of the blockchain network for parallel endorsement of the first and second data points.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising: a network interface; and a processor configured to generate a plurality of successive data points of an iterative simulation based on predefined checkpoints, where each data point identifies a state of the iterative simulation as it evolves with respect to a previous data point, wherein the processor is further configured to control the network interface to transmit a blockchain request to validate state data within a first data point among the plurality of successive data points to a first subset of endorsing nodes of a blockchain network, and transmit a blockchain request to validate state data within a second data point among the plurality of successive data points to a second subset of endorsing nodes which are mutually exclusive from the first subset of endorsing nodes of the blockchain network for parallel endorsement of the first and second data points.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the state data of the first data point is generated based on a first iteration of the iterative simulation and the state data of the second data point is based on a subsequent iteration of the iterative simulation.
3. The computing system of claim 2, wherein the second data point stores differences between a state of the iterative simulation of the first data point and a state of the iterative simulation at the second data point.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the network interface is further configured to receive a message from the second subset of endorsing nodes which indicates the state data of the second data point is invalid.
5. The computing system of claim 4, wherein the processor is further configured to refine the state data of the invalidated second data point to generate an updated state data for the second data point and control the network interface to transmit the updated state data to the second subset of endorsing nodes for validation.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to store an iteration ID within each data point from among the successive data points, where the iteration ID identifies a respective iteration of the iterative simulation associated with the respective data point.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the iterative simulation to generate the plurality of successive data points.
8. A method comprising: generating a plurality of successive data points of an iterative simulation based on predefined checkpoints, each data point identifying an evolving state of the iterative simulation with respect to a previous data point among the successive data points; transmitting a blockchain request for validating state data within a first data point among the plurality of successive data points to a first subset of endorsing nodes of a blockchain network; and transmitting a blockchain request for validating state data within a second data point among the plurality of successive data points to a second subset of endorsing nodes which are mutually exclusive from the first subset of endorsing nodes of the blockchain network for parallel endorsement of the first and second data points.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the state data of the first data point is generated based on a first iteration of the iterative simulation and the state data of the second data point is based on a subsequent iteration of the iterative simulation.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the second data point stores differences between a state of the iterative simulation of the first data point and a state of the iterative simulation at the second data point.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising receiving a message from the second subset of endorsing nodes indicating the state data of the second data point is invalid.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising refining the state data of the invalidated second data point to generate an updated state data for the second data point and transmitting the updated state data to the second subset of endorsing nodes for validation.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising storing an iteration ID within each data point from among the successive data points, wherein the iteration ID identifies a respective iteration of the iterative simulation associated with the respective data point.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising executing the iterative simulation to generate the plurality of successive data points.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions, that when read by a processor, cause the processor to perform a method comprising: generating a plurality of successive data points of an iterative simulation based on predefined checkpoints, each data point identifying an evolving state of the iterative simulation with respect to a previous data point among the successive data points; transmitting a blockchain request for validating state data within a first data point among the plurality of successive data points to a first subset of endorsing nodes of a blockchain network; and transmitting a blockchain request for validating state data within a second data point among the plurality of successive data points to a second subset of endorsing nodes which are mutually exclusive from the first subset of endorsing nodes of the blockchain network for parallel endorsement of the first and second data points.
16. A computing system comprising: a network interface configured to receive, via a first subset of peer nodes, a verification of state data of a first data point among a plurality of successive data points generated by an iterative simulation, and further receive, via a second subset of endorsing peer nodes which are mutually exclusive from the first subset of peer nodes, a verification of state data of a second data point among the plurality of successive data points of the iterative simulation; and a processor configured to generate one or more data blocks which include the first and second data points that includes the validated state data and control the network interface to transmit the one or more data blocks to peer nodes within a blockchain network for storage among a hash-linked chain of data blocks.
17. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the processor is further configured to arrange the first data point and the second data point within a queue based on timestamps included in the first data point and the second data point.
18. The computing system of claim 17, wherein the processor is configured to order the first and second data points within the one or more data blocks based on a position of the first and second data points within the queue.
19. The computing system of claim 16, wherein each verification indicates that the state data of the respective data point is within an acceptable range of deviation from a predefined threshold.
20. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the first and second data points each comprise an iteration ID that identifies a respective iteration of the iterative simulation associated with the respective data point.
21. A method comprising: receiving, via a first subset of peer nodes, a verification of state data of a first data point among a plurality of successive data points generated by an iterative simulation; receiving, via a second subset of endorsing peer nodes which are mutually exclusive from the first subset of peer nodes, a verification of state data of a second data point among the plurality of successive data points of the iterative simulation; generating one or more data blocks which include the first and second data points including the validated state data; and transmitting the one or more data blocks to peer nodes within a blockchain network for storage among a hash-linked chain of data blocks.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising arranging the first data point and the second data point within a queue based on timestamps included in the first data point and the second data point.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the generating the one or more data blocks comprises ordering the first and second data points within the one or more data blocks based on a position of the first and second data points within the queue.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein each verification indicates that the state data of the respective data point is within an acceptable range of deviation from a predefined threshold.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein the first and second data points each comprise an iteration ID that identifies a respective iteration of the iterative simulation associated with the respective data point.
</claims>
</document>
