<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H20/70,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI JING
LIU WEN
QIN YONG
YU YIQIN
ZHANG SHILEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70161584
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER ASSESSMENT AND INTERVENTION
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method, system, and computer program product are provided for Autism Spectrum Disorder assessment and intervention. The method includes receiving, by a processor device, behavioral phenomenon from a child. The method also includes generating, by the processor device, a similarity score for the child based on a similarity between the behavioral phenomenon and ASD profiles. The method additionally includes evaluating, by the processor device, the similarity score against applied behavior analysis (ABA) training courses. The method further includes determining, by the processor device, a dynamic ABA protocol from a sorted list of the ABA training courses. The method also includes controlling an operation of an interactive training device to deliver the dynamic ABA protocol to the child.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for Autism Spectrum Disorder assessment and intervention, the method comprising: receiving, by a processor device, behavioral phenomenon from a child; generating, by the processor device, a similarity score for the child based on a similarity between the behavioral phenomenon and ASD profiles; evaluating, by the processor device, the similarity score against applied behavior analysis (ABA) training courses; determining, by the processor device, a dynamic ABA protocol from a sorted list of the ABA training courses; and controlling an operation of an interactive training device to deliver the dynamic ABA protocol to the child.
2. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein receiving includes receiving behavioral phenomenon that includes acoustic characteristics or visual characteristics.
3. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, further comprises collecting multi-channel characteristics from the ABA training courses and tagging behavioral phenomenon in the ABA training courses.
4. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 3, wherein collecting includes identifying characteristics selected from the group consisting of mel-frequency cepstral coefficients (MFCC), filter bank (Fbank), mel scale (MEL), energy, frequency, and pitch.
5. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein receiving includes receiving behavioral phenomenon selected from the group consisting of verbal protests and repeated speaking.
6. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, further comprises aggregating and clustering multi-channel characteristics for the ABA training courses to form aggregated characteristics for the ABA training courses.
7. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, further comprises generating a characteristic vector for each of the ABA training courses utilizing aggregated characteristics for each of the ABA training courses.
8. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, further comprises clustering characteristic vectors of the ABA training courses to form the ASD profiles
9. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein the ASD profiles include a relationship between the ABA training course and an evaluation score.
10. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 9, wherein the evaluation score includes a Psycho-educational Profile 3 score.
11. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, further comprises monitoring the child during deployment of the dynamic ABA protocol and updating the dynamic ABA protocol responsive to responses of the child to the dynamic ABA protocol.
12. A computer program product for Autism Spectrum Disorder assessment and intervention, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform a method comprising: receiving, by a processor device, behavioral phenomenon from a child; generating, by the processor device, a similarity score for the child based on a similarity between the behavioral phenomenon and ASD profiles; evaluating, by the processor device, the similarity score against applied behavior analysis (ABA) training courses; determining, by the processor device, a dynamic ABA protocol from a sorted list of the ABA training courses; and controlling an operation of an interactive training device to deliver the dynamic ABA protocol to the child.
13. An interactive training system for Autism Spectrum Disorder assessment and intervention, comprising: a camera and a microphone; a processing system including a processor device and memory receiving input from the camera and the microphone, the processing system programmed to: receive behavioral phenomenon from the camera and the microphone for a child; generate a similarity score for the child based on a similarity between the behavioral phenomenon and ASD profiles; evaluate the similarity score against applied behavior analysis (ABA) training courses; determine a dynamic ABA protocol from a sorted list of the ABA training courses; and control an operation of the interactive training device to deliver the dynamic ABA protocol to the child.
14. The system as recited in claim 13, wherein the behavioral phenomenon includes acoustic characteristics or visual characteristics.
15. The system as recited in claim 13, further programmed to collect multi-channel characteristics from the ABA training courses and tag behavioral phenomenon in the ABA training courses.
16. The system as recited in claim 15, wherein the multi-channel characteristics are selected from the group consisting of mel-frequency cepstral coefficients (MFCC), filter bank (Fbank), mel scale (MEL), energy, frequency, and pitch.
17. The system as recited in claim 13, wherein the behavioral phenomenon is selected from the group consisting of verbal protests and repeated speaking.
18. The system as recited in claim 13, further programmed to aggregate and cluster multi-channel characteristics for the ABA training courses to form aggregated characteristics for the ABA training courses.
19. The system as recited in claim 13, further programmed to generate a characteristic vector for each of the ABA training courses utilizing aggregated characteristics for each of the ABA training courses.
20. The system as recited in claim 13, further programmed to form the ASD profiles by clustering characteristic vectors of the ABA training courses.
</claims>
</document>
