<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F16/35,G06F16/93,G06F40/247,G06F40/295,G06F40/30,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CASEPOINT
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAJPARA, VISHALKUMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71993945
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNOLOGY PLATFORM FOR DATA DISCOVERY
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes receiving a set of documents related to data discovery issues, wherein at least a first data discovery issue is unrelated to a second data discovery issue. The method further includes generating a map of terms and words for the set of documents that correspond to concepts. The method further includes providing a user interface that includes a search analytics tool to a user associated with the first data discovery issue.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving a set of documents related to data discovery issues, wherein a first data discovery issue of the data discovery issues is unrelated to a second data discovery issue of the data discovery issues; generating, based on a unified knowledge database, a map of terms and words for the set of documents that correspond to concepts by classifying different instantiations of one or more related terms in the set of documents as being associated with a same classified term; identifying, based on the map of terms and words, one or more key terms that are associated with a cause of action of a lawsuit associated with the first data discovery issue or a date that is significant for the lawsuit associated with the first data discovery issue; receiving a request from a user to view one or more documents of interest; identifying the documents of interest from the set of documents based on a type of the user; and providing a user interface to the user that includes the documents of interest.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the type of user is at least one of a key custodian, an attorney, or general counsel.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the type of user is based at least in part on a name of a law firm that the user is associated with.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the type of user is a reviewer that tags one or more of the set of documents or a decision maker that provides inputs for using artificial intelligence to improve generating the unified knowledge database or identifying the documents of interest.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the user interface further includes an option for the user to add one or more key terms to a search of the documents of interest.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the user interface further includes an option to identify a key document that triggered the first data discovery issue.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the key document is not part of the set of documents and the user interface further includes at least one of an option to upload the key document or a text field for pasting text from the key document.
8. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium carrying program instructions thereon, the instructions when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving a set of documents related to data discovery issues, wherein a first data discovery issue of the data discovery issues is unrelated to a second data discovery issue of the data discovery issues; generating, based on a unified knowledge database, a map of terms and words for the set of documents that correspond to concepts by classifying different instantiations of one or more related terms in the set of documents as being associated with a same classified term; identifying, based on the map of terms and words, one or more key terms that are associated with a cause of action of a lawsuit associated with the first data discovery issue or a date that is significant for the lawsuit associated with the first data discovery issue; receiving a request from a user to view one or more documents of interest; identifying the documents of interest from the set of documents based on a type of the user; and providing a user interface to the user that includes the documents of interest.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the type of user is at least one of a key custodian, an attorney, or general counsel.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the type of user is based at least in part on a name of a law firm that the user is associated with.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the type of user is a reviewer that tags one or more of the set of documents or a decision maker that provides inputs for using artificial intelligence to improve generating the unified knowledge database or identifying the documents of interest.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the user interface further includes an option for the user to add one or more key terms to a search of the documents of interest.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the user interface further includes an option to identify a key document that triggered the first data discovery issue.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the key document is not part of the set of documents and the user interface further includes at least one of an option to upload the key document or a text field for pasting text from the key document.
15. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory coupled to the one or more processors, with instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving a set of documents related to data discovery issues, wherein a first data discovery issue of the data discovery issues is unrelated to a second data discovery issue of the data discovery issues; generating, based on a unified knowledge database, a map of terms and words for the set of documents that correspond to concepts by classifying different instantiations of one or more related terms in the set of documents as being associated with a same classified term; identifying, based on the map of terms and words, one or more key terms that are associated with a cause of action of a lawsuit associated with the first data discovery issue or a date that is significant for the lawsuit associated with the first data discovery issue; receiving a request from a user to view one or more documents of interest; identifying the documents of interest from the set of documents based on a type of the user; and providing a user interface to the user that includes the documents of interest.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the type of user is at least one of a key custodian, an attorney, or general counsel.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the type of user is based at least in part on a name of a law firm that the user is associated with.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the type of user is a reviewer that tags one or more of the set of documents or a decision maker that provides inputs for using artificial intelligence to improve generating the unified knowledge database or identifying the documents of interest.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the user interface further includes an option for the user to add one or more key terms to a search of the documents of interest.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the user interface further includes an option to identify a key document that triggered the first data discovery issue.
</claims>
</document>
