<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N19/105,H04N19/119,H04N19/139,H04N19/14,H04N19/176,H04N19/52,H04N19/573
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PANASONIC INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
</assignee>

<inventors>
NISHI TAKAHIRO
TOMA TADAMASA
ABE, KIYOFUMI
KANOH, RYUICHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64567434
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENCODER, DECODER, ENCODING METHOD, AND DECODING METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
An encoder is disclosed which includes circuitry and memory. Using the memory, the circuitry, in a first operating mode, derives first motion vectors for a first block obtained by splitting a picture, and generates a prediction image corresponding to the first block, with a bi-directional optical flow flag settable to true, and by referring to spatial gradients of luminance generated based on the first motion vectors. Using the memory, the circuitry, in a second operating mode, derives second motion vectors for a sub-block obtained by splitting a second block, the second block being obtained by splitting the picture, and generates a prediction image corresponding to the sub-block, with the bi-directional optical flow flag set to false.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An encoder, comprising: circuitry; and memory, wherein, using the memory, the circuitry: in a first operating mode, derives first motion vectors for a first block obtained by splitting a picture, and generates a prediction image corresponding to the first block, with a bi-directional optical flow flag settable to true, and by referring to spatial gradients of luminance generated based on the first motion vectors, and in a second operating mode, derives second motion vectors for a sub-block obtained by splitting a second block, the second block being obtained by splitting the picture, and generates a prediction image corresponding to the sub-block, with the bi-directional optical flow flag set to false.
2. The encoder according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry: in the first operating mode, derives the first motion vectors in a unit of the first block using a first inter frame prediction mode; and in the second operating mode, derives the second motion vectors in a unit of the sub-block using a second inter frame prediction mode different from the first inter frame prediction mode.
3. The encoder according to claim 2, wherein the second inter frame prediction mode uses a degree of matching between two reconstructed images of two regions in two different pictures.
4. The encoder according to claim 3, wherein the first inter frame prediction mode is one of (i) a third inter frame prediction mode that uses a degree of matching between a reconstructed image of a region in a current picture neighboring a current block, and a reconstructed image of a region in a reference picture, and (ii) a fourth inter frame prediction mode that uses a degree of matching between two reconstructed images of two regions in two different reference pictures, and the second inter frame prediction mode is the other of the third inter frame prediction mode and the fourth inter frame prediction mode.
5. The encoder according to claim 4, wherein the first inter frame prediction mode is the third inter frame prediction mode, and the second inter frame prediction mode is the fourth inter frame prediction mode.
6. The encoder according to claim 3, wherein the first inter frame prediction mode uses a degree of matching between a current block and a reconstructed image of a region in a reference picture, and an encoded bitstream is generated that includes information for identifying the first motion vectors.
7. A decoder comprising: circuitry; and memory, wherein, using the memory, the circuitry: in a first operating mode, derives first motion vectors for a first block obtained by splitting a picture, and generates a prediction image corresponding to the first block, with a bi-directional optical flow flag settable to true, and by referring to spatial gradients of luminance generated based on the first motion vectors; and in a second operating mode, derives second motion vectors for a sub-block obtained by splitting a second block, the second block being obtained by splitting the picture, and generates a prediction image corresponding to the sub-block, with the bi-directional optical flow flag set to false.
8. The decoder according to claim 7, wherein the circuitry: in the first operating mode, derives the first motion vectors in a unit of the first block using a first inter frame prediction mode; and in the second operating mode, derives the second motion vectors in a unit of the sub-block using a second inter frame prediction mode different from the first inter frame prediction mode.
9. The decoder according to claim 8, wherein the second inter frame prediction mode uses a degree of matching between two reconstructed images of two regions in two different pictures.
10. The decoder according to claim 9, wherein the first inter frame prediction mode is one of (i) a third inter frame prediction mode that uses a degree of matching between a reconstructed image of a region in a current picture neighboring a current block, and a reconstructed image of a region in a reference picture, and (ii) a fourth inter frame prediction mode that uses a degree of matching between two reconstructed images of two regions in two different reference pictures, and the second inter frame prediction mode is the other of the third inter frame prediction mode and the fourth inter frame prediction mode.
11. The decoder according to claim 10, wherein the first inter frame prediction mode is the third inter frame prediction mode, and the second inter frame prediction mode is the fourth inter frame prediction mode.
12. The decoder according to claim 9, wherein the first inter frame prediction mode obtains, from an encoded bitstream, information for identifying the first motion vectors in the unit of the first block, and derives the first motion vectors using the information.
13. An encoding method, comprising: in a first operating mode, deriving first motion vectors for a first block obtained by splitting a picture, and generating a prediction image corresponding to the first block, with a bi-directional optical flow flag settable to true, and by referring to spatial gradients of luminance generated based on the first motion vectors, and in a second operating mode, deriving second motion vectors for a sub-block obtained by splitting a second block, the second block being obtained by splitting the picture, and generating a prediction image corresponding to the sub-block, with the bi-directional optical flow flag set to false.
14. A decoding method, comprising: in a first operating mode, deriving first motion vectors for a first block obtained by splitting a picture, and generating a prediction image corresponding to the first block, with a bi-directional optical flow flag settable to true, and by referring to spatial gradients of luminance generated based on the first motion vectors; and in a second operating mode, deriving second motion vectors for a sub-block obtained by splitting a second block, the second block being obtained by splitting the picture, and generating a prediction image corresponding to the sub-block, with the bi-directional optical flow flag set to false.
</claims>
</document>
