<document>

<filing_date>
2017-07-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/20,G16H10/20,G16H20/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDERSON, ARIANA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61016771
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTING THE PLACEBO RESPONSE AND PLACEBO RESPONDERS USING BASELINE PSYCHOMETRIC AND CLINICAL ASSESSMENT SCORE
</title>

<abstract>
The invention provides tools and methods for improving the quality and efficiency of clinical trials, including designing clinical trials that do not require a placebo group. In one aspect, the invention provides a method of identifying placebo responders. In another aspect, the invention provides a method for calculating and/or estimating a placebo risk score for one or more individual subjects. In yet another aspect, the invention provides a method for adjusting results of a clinical trial by removing the placebo responders and/or the portion of their response attributable to placebo effect. In an additional aspect, the invention provides a method of measuring the response of an individual to treatment that is not attributable to placebo effect.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of producing a placebo responder profile from a treatment group of subjects, the method comprising: (a) measuring a plurality of symptoms in a first population of subjects receiving a placebo treatment before and after said treatment to obtain a plurality of baseline symptom scores and post-treatment symptom scores; (a) generating a plurality of placebo difference scores, wherein a placebo difference score is the difference between the post-treatment symptom score of a subject and the baseline symptom score of the same subject; (b) performing a clustering analysis to create two distinct profiles of placebo difference scores generated in (b), wherein a profile associated with placebo responders exhibits greater total difference scores than a profile associated with non-responders; and (c) analyzing the baseline symptom scores of the placebo responders identified in (c) to create a baseline placebo responder profile.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the clustering analysis is a spectral clustering analysis.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (e) measuring the plurality of symptoms in a second population of subjects receiving a psychopharmacologic treatment before said psychopharmacologic treatment to obtain a plurality of baseline symptom scores; and (f) identifying subjects in the second population whose baseline symptom scores exhibit the baseline placebo responder profile of (d) as placebo responders.
4. A method of obtaining a placebo quantified response score (PQRS) from a treatment group of subjects, the method comprising: (a) measuring a plurality of symptoms in a first population of subjects receiving a placebo treatment before and after said treatment to obtain a plurality of baseline symptom scores and post-treatment symptom scores; (b) generating a plurality of placebo difference scores, wherein a placebo difference score is the difference between the post-treatment symptom score of a subject and the baseline symptom score of the same subject; (c) modeling a total post-treatment symptom score measured after treatment with placebo as a function of baseline symptom scores; and (d) generating a PQRS using the modeling of step (c) to predict a post-treatment symptom score attributable to placebo based on a baseline symptom score.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: (e) measuring the plurality of symptoms in a second population of subjects receiving a psychopharmacologic treatment before and after said psychopharmacologic treatment to obtain a plurality of baseline symptom scores and post-treatment symptom scores; (f) generating a PQRS for each subject in the second population; and (g) adjusting the post-treatment scores measured in the second population of subjects using the PQRS for that subject.
6. A method of improving the quality and efficiency of a clinical trial, the method comprising: (a) obtaining measured responses of a plurality of symptoms in a population of subjects prior to a trial treatment; (b) analyzing the measured responses obtained in (a) to generate a placebo quantified response score (PQRS); (c) measuring the subjects' responses to treatment with either a trial medication or a placebo; and (d) adjusting the measured responses obtained in (c) to account for the PQRS.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the adjusting of (d) comprises removing measured responses of subjects whose PQRS identifies them as placebo responders from the responses measured in step (c), and/or subtracting the PQRS from the measured response of each subject.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein steps (c) and (d) are performed only for those subjects whose PQRS identifies them as placebo non-responders.
9. The methods of any of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of symptoms is the set of symptoms of the Positive and Negative Symptom Scale (PANSS), Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAM-A), or the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D).
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the PQRS identifies a subject as a placebo responder if the PQRS is higher than a threshold identified using the methods described herein to distinguish placebo responders from placebo non-responders.
11. The method of claim 4, wherein the trial medication is a psychopharmacologic treatment.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the psychopharmacologic treatment or trial medication comprises one or more medications selected from the group consisting of Olanzapine, Paliperidone, Paliperidone Palmitate, Quetiapine, and Risperidone.
13. A method of performing clinical trial of a treatment, the method comprising: performing the method of claim 6, wherein the measuring of step (c) comprises measuring the subjects' responses to treatment with a trial medication; and wherein the clinical trial does not require administration of a placebo.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the treatment is a psychopharmacologic treatment.
15. A method of adjusting dosing of active medication within a clinical trial, the method comprising: (a) generating a PQRS for a subject according to the method of claim 4; and (b) assigning a lower dose of active medication if the subject has a high PQRS.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the measured responses comprise functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of the brain of the subjects.
17. A system for performing a clinical trial, the system comprising: (a) a computer readable memory storing data describing measured responses of a plurality of symptoms in a population of subjects prior to a trial treatment; (b) an analyzer that generates a placebo quantified response score (PQRS) from measured responses stored as the data of (a); (c) an analyzer that receives the subjects' measured responses to treatment with a trial medication; and (d) a processor that adjusts the measured responses obtained in (c) to account for the PQRS.
18. A system for performing a clinical trial, the system comprising: means for performing each of steps (a) to (d) of claim 13 wherein the clinical trial does not require administration of a placebo.
19. A computer system for analyzing data resulting from a clinical trial, the system comprising: (a) a first processor that analyzes measured responses of a plurality of symptoms in a population of subjects prior to a trial treatment to generate a placebo quantified response score (PQRS); (b) a second processor that analyzes the subjects' measured responses to treatment with a trial medication; and (c) a third processor that adjusts the measured responses obtained in (b) to account for the PQRS, wherein the first, second, and third processors are the same processor, separate processors, or a combination thereof.
20. A computer readable non-transitory storage medium storing software for analyzing clinical data, the software comprising: (a) software that analyzes measured responses of a plurality of symptoms in a population of subjects prior to a trial treatment to generate a placebo quantified response score (PQRS); (b) software that analyzes the subjects' measured responses to treatment with a trial medication; and (c) software that adjusts the measured responses obtained in (b) to account for the PQRS.
</claims>
</document>
