<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-07
</priority_date>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDELMAKSOUD, ISLAM
EL-BAZ, AYMAN S.
KHALIFA, FAHMI
SHALABY, AHMED
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69102152
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER-AIDED DIAGNOSTIC SYSTEM FOR EARLY DIAGNOSIS OF PROSTATE CANCER
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for diagnosing prostate cancer. Image sets (e.g., MRI collected at one or more b-values) and biological values (e.g., prostate specific antigen (PSA)) have features extracted and integrated to produce a diagnosis of prostate cancer. The image sets are analyzed primarily in three steps: (1) segmentation, (2) feature extraction, smoothing, and normalization, and (3) classification. The biological values are analyzed primarily in two steps: (1) feature extraction and (2) classification. Each analysis results in diagnostic probabilities, which are then combined to pass through an additional classification stage. The end result is a more accurate diagnosis of prostate cancer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for diagnosing prostate cancer comprising: obtaining magnetic resonance imaging prostate data at a plurality of b-values; processing the magnetic resonance imaging prostate data through a plurality of autoencoders to create a plurality of imaging output probability data, wherein each of the plurality of autoencoders processes the magnetic resonance imaging prostate data associated with only one of the plurality of b-values; organizing the plurality of imaging output probability data into an input vector, wherein the input vector is a one-dimensional list of the imaging output probability data; and processing the input vector through an autoencoder to generate a diagnostic probability of prostate cancer.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the input vector further includes biological output probability data.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the biological output probability data is created by the method comprising: obtaining biological data from a biological value test; and processing the biological data through a data classifier.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the biological value test is based at least in part on a test selected from the group consisting of a digital rectal examination, a prostate specific antigen blood test, a needle biopsy, a patient questionnaire, or a histology-based test.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the data classifier is based at least in part on a low-dimensional classifier selected from the group consisting of a K-nearest neighbor classifier or a softmax regression classifier.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of autoencoders and the autoencoder are selected from the group consisting of a stacked non-negativity constrained sparse autoencoder, a non-negatively constrained sparse autoencoder, a softmax regression classifier, or a convolutional neural network.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining magnetic resonance imaging prostate data comprises: determining an intensity-based imaging feature from a magnetic resonance imaging scan; creating a plurality of intensity-based feature maps from magnetic resonance imaging data based on the plurality of b-values, wherein each of the plurality of intensity-based feature maps is associated with only one of the plurality of b-values; and generating magnetic resonance imaging prostate data by applying the plurality of intensity-based feature maps to a plurality of cumulative distribution functions based on the plurality of b-values, wherein each of the plurality of cumulative distribution functions is associated with only one of the plurality of b-values.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the magnetic resonance imaging scan is a diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging scan.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the intensity-based imaging feature is an apparent diffusion coefficient.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of b-values are selected from the range of about 0 s/mm2 to about 700 s/mm2.
11. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and memory containing program code that, when executed by at least one of the one or more processors, causes the system to: process magnetic resonance imaging prostate data through a plurality of autoencoders to create a plurality of imaging output probability data, wherein each of the plurality of autoencoders processes the magnetic resonance imaging prostate data associated with only one of a plurality of b-values; organize the plurality of imaging output probability data into an input vector, wherein the input vector is a one-dimensional list of the imaging output probability data; and process the input vector through an autoencoder to generate a diagnostic probability of prostate cancer.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the input vector further includes biological output probability data.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the biological output probability data is created by further causing the system to: process biological data through a data classifier.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the data classifier is based at least in part on a low-dimensional classifier selected from the group consisting of a K-nearest neighbor classifier or a softmax regression classifier.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the plurality of autoencoders and the autoencoder are selected from the group consisting of a stacked non-negativity constrained sparse autoencoder, a non-negatively constrained sparse autoencoder, a softmax regression classifier, or a convolutional neural network.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein obtaining magnetic resonance imaging prostate data further causes the system to: determine an intensity-based imaging feature from a magnetic resonance imaging scan; create a plurality of intensity-based feature maps from magnetic resonance imaging data based on the plurality of b-values, wherein each of the plurality of intensity-based feature maps is associated with only one of the plurality of b-values; and generate magnetic resonance imaging prostate data by applying the plurality of intensity-based feature maps to a plurality of cumulative distribution functions based on the plurality of b-values, wherein each of the plurality of cumulative distribution functions is associated with only one of the plurality of b-values.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the magnetic resonance imaging scan is a diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging scan.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the intensity-based imaging feature is an apparent diffusion coefficient.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the plurality of b-values are selected from the range of about 0 s/mm2 to about 700 s/mm2.
</claims>
</document>
