<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAING, BARBARA
O'HERN, WILLIAM
IVANOV, ALEKSEY
CANNON, JR., THOMAS A.
EASLEY, MARK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73016945
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Identity Vault Service
</title>

<abstract>
Concepts and technologies for are disclosed an identity vault service. According to one aspect disclosed herein, an identity vault service system can collect self-attested and operator-attested user information. The operator-attested user information can be associated with a user and a mobile telecommunications service provided to the user by a mobile network operator. The system can create a trusted digital identity of the user based upon the self-attested and operator-attested user information. The system can receive an identity access request from a third party. The request can be for access to at least a portion of the trusted digital identity for use by the third party in performance of an act. The system can send a consent request to a user device and can receive a consent response that indicates whether the user permits access to at least the portion of the trusted digital identity of the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: collecting, by an identity vault service system comprising a processor, self-attested user information provided by a user; collecting, by the identity vault service system, operator-attested user information provided by a mobile network operator, wherein the operator-attested user information is associated with the user and a mobile telecommunications service provided to the user by the mobile network operator; creating, by the identity vault service system, a trusted digital identity of the user based upon the self-attested user information and the operator-attested user information; receiving, by the identity vault service system, an identity access request from a third party, wherein the identity access request is for access to at least a portion of the trusted digital identity for use by the third party in performance of an act; in response to the identity access request, determining, by the identity vault service system, whether to allow access to at least the portion of the trusted digital identity of the user.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising creating a service agreement for an identity vault service provided by the mobile network operator via the identity vault service system, wherein the service agreement is between the user and the mobile network operator.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein collecting the self-attested user information provided by the user comprises collecting the self-attested user information provided by the user as part of creating the service agreement for the identity vault service.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the operator-attested user information comprises a location of a user device within a network.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the location is part of a movement behavior model of the user as the user moves through the network over time.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the operator-attested user information comprises a device type or a change from the device type to a new device type.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining, by the identity vault service system, whether to allow access to at least the portion of the trusted digital identity of the user comprises: generating, by the identity vault service system, a consent request directed to the user; sending, by the identity vault service system, the consent request to a user device associated with the user; and receiving, by the identity vault service system, a consent response from the user device associated with the user, wherein the consent response indicates whether the user permits access to at least the portion of the trusted digital identity of the user.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the act comprises a commerce act, an authorization act, an authentication act, or an identification act.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprises adding an entry into a distributed ledger protected by a blockchain, wherein the entry identifies to the user who the third party is, when the third party made the identity access request, and for what reason the third party made the identity access request.
10. A computer-readable storage medium comprising computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a processor of an identity vault service system, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: collecting self-attested user information provided by a user; collecting operator-attested user information provided by a mobile network operator, wherein the operator-attested user information is associated with the user and a mobile telecommunications service provided to the user by the mobile network operator; creating a trusted digital identity of the user based upon the self-attested user information and the operator-attested user information; receiving an identity access request from a third party, wherein the identity access request is for access to at least a portion of the trusted digital identity for use by the third party in performance of an act; in response to the identity access request, determining whether to allow access to at least the portion of the trusted digital identity of the user.
11. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein the operations further comprise creating a service agreement for an identity vault service provided by the mobile network operator via the identity vault service system, wherein the service agreement is between the user and the mobile network operator.
12. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein collecting the self-attested user information provided by the user comprises collecting the self-attested user information provided by the user as part of creating the service agreement for the identity vault service.
13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the operator-attested user information comprises a location of a user device within a network.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the location is part of a movement behavior model of the user as the user moves through the network over time.
15. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the operator-attested user information comprises a device type or a change from the device type to a new device type.
16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein determining whether to allow access to at least the portion of the trusted digital identity of the user comprises: generating a consent request directed to the user; sending the consent request to a user device associated with the user; and receiving a consent response from the user device associated with the user, wherein the consent response indicates whether the user permits access to at least the portion of the trusted digital identity of the user.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the act comprises a commerce act, an authorization act, an authentication act, or an identification act.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise adding an entry into a distributed ledger protected by a blockchain, wherein the entry identifies to the user who the third party is, when the third party made the identity access request, and for what reason the third party made the identity access request.
19. An identity vault service system comprising: a processor; and a memory comprising computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising collecting self-attested user information provided by a user, collecting operator-attested user information provided by a mobile network operator, wherein the operator-attested user information is associated with the user and a mobile telecommunications service provided to the user by the mobile network operator, creating a trusted digital identity of the user based upon the self-attested user information and the operator-attested user information, receiving an identity access request from a third party, wherein the identity access request is for access to at least a portion of the trusted digital identity for use by the third party in performance of an act, in response to the identity access request, generating a consent request directed to the user, sending the consent request to a user device associated with the user, and receiving a consent response from the user device associated with the user, wherein the consent response indicates whether the user permits access to at least the portion of the trusted digital identity of the user.
20. The identity vault service system of claim 19, wherein: the operations further comprise creating a service agreement for an identity vault service provided by the mobile network operator via the identity vault service system, wherein the service agreement is between the user and the mobile network operator; collecting the self-attested user information provided by the user comprises collecting the self-attested user information provided by the user as part of creating the service agreement for the identity vault service; the operator-attested user information comprises a location of a user device within a network, and the location is part of a movement behavior model of the user as the user moves through the network over time; the operator-attested user information further comprises a device type or a change from the device type to a new device type; and the act comprises a commerce act, an authorization act, an authentication act, or an identification act.
</claims>
</document>
