<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/906,G06N20/00,G06N3/04,G06Q40/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
PAN JIANMIN
ZHANG, PENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62867548
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD, APPARATUS, AND DEVICE FOR TRAINING RISK MANAGEMENT MODELS
</title>

<abstract>
Implementations of the present specification disclose a risk control model training and risk control method, apparatus, and device. In one aspect, the method includes obtaining historical data generated during a specified time period, and partitioning the specified time period into multiple sub time periods; for each sub time period, determining respective features of the historical data in the sub time period; generating a plurality of feature sequences, comprising, for each feature type: sorting the respective features of the historical data belonging to the feature type in the multiple sub time periods based on a corresponding sorting rule; and training a risk management machine learning model by using the plurality of feature sequences as training samples.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: obtaining historical data generated during a specified time period, and partitioning the specified time period into multiple sub time periods; for each sub time period, determining respective features of the historical data in the sub time period; generating a plurality of feature sequences, comprising, for each feature type: sorting the respective features of the historical data belonging to the feature type in the multiple sub time periods based on a corresponding sorting rule; and training a risk management machine learning model by using the plurality of feature sequences as training samples.
2. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein: determining respective features of the historical data in the sub time period comprises, for each feature type: determining respective features of the historical data that belong to the feature type in the multiple sub time periods; and training the risk management machine learning model by using the plurality of feature sequences as training sample comprises: training the risk management machine learning model by using the feature sequence corresponding to each feature type as a training sample.
3. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein sorting the respective features of the historical data belonging to the feature type in the multiple sub time periods comprises: performing normalization processing on the respective features of the historical data belonging to the feature type in the multiple sub time periods.
4. The computer-implemented method according to claim 2, wherein the risk management machine learning model is a convolutional neural network model.
5. The computer-implemented method according to claim 4, wherein at least one of a height or a width of a convolutional kernel of a convolutional layer in the convolutional neural network model is equal to a quantity of the plurality of feature types.
6. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, further comprising, after training the risk management machine learning model using the training samples: obtaining service data generated during a specified time period that describes a transaction activity, and partitioning the specified time period into one or more sub time periods; for each sub time period, determining respective features of the service data in the sub time period; generating a plurality of feature sequences, comprising, for each feature type: sorting the respective features of the service data belonging to the feature type in the one or more sub time periods based on a corresponding sorting rule; and classifying whether the transaction activity described by the service data is legal by inputting the plurality of feature sequences into the risk management machine learning model to generate a classification output.
7. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions executable by a computer system to perform operations comprising: obtaining historical data generated during a specified time period, and partitioning the specified time period into multiple sub time periods; for each sub time period, determining respective features of the historical data in the sub time period; generating a plurality of feature sequences, comprising, for each feature type: sorting the respective features of the historical data belonging to the feature type in the multiple sub time periods based on a corresponding sorting rule; and training a risk management machine learning model by using the plurality of feature sequences as training samples.
8. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium according to claim 7, wherein: determining respective features of the historical data in the sub time period comprises, for each feature type: determining respective features of the historical data that belong to the feature type in the multiple sub time periods; and training the risk management machine learning model by using the plurality of feature sequences as training sample comprises: training the risk management machine learning model by using the feature sequence corresponding to each feature type as a training sample.
9. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium according to claim 7, wherein sorting the respective features of the historical data belonging to the feature type in the multiple sub time periods comprises: performing normalization processing on the respective features of the historical data belonging to the feature type in the multiple sub time periods.
10. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium according to claim 8, wherein the risk management machine learning model is a convolutional neural network model.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium according to claim 10, wherein at least one of a height or a width of a convolutional kernel of a convolutional layer in the convolutional neural network model is equal to a quantity of the plurality of feature types.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium according to claim 7, wherein the operations further comprise, after training the risk management machine learning model using the training samples: obtaining service data generated during a specified time period that describes a transaction activity, and partitioning the specified time period into one or more sub time periods; for each sub time period, determining respective features of the service data in the sub time period; generating a plurality of feature sequences, comprising, for each feature type: sorting the respective features of the service data belonging to the feature type in the one or more sub time periods based on a corresponding sorting rule; and classifying whether the transaction activity described by the service data is legal by inputting the plurality of feature sequences into the risk management machine learning model to generate a classification output.
13. A computer-implemented system, comprising: one or more computers; and one or more computer memory devices interoperably coupled with the one or more computers and having tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable media storing one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, perform one or more operations comprising: obtaining historical data generated during a specified time period, and partitioning the specified time period into multiple sub time periods; for each sub time period, determining respective features of the historical data in the sub time period; generating a plurality of feature sequences, comprising, for each feature type: sorting the respective features of the historical data belonging to the feature type in the multiple sub time periods based on a corresponding sorting rule; and training a risk management machine learning model by using the plurality of feature sequences as training samples.
14. The computer-implemented system according to claim 13, wherein: determining respective features of the historical data in the sub time period comprises, for each feature type: determining respective features of the historical data that belong to the feature type in the multiple sub time periods; and training the risk management machine learning model by using the plurality of feature sequences as training sample comprises: training the risk management machine learning model by using the feature sequence corresponding to each feature type as a training sample.
15. The computer-implemented system according to claim 13, wherein sorting the respective features of the historical data belonging to the feature type in the multiple sub time periods comprises: performing normalization processing on the respective features of the historical data belonging to the feature type in the multiple sub time periods.
16. The computer-implemented system according to claim 14, wherein the risk management machine learning model is a convolutional neural network model.
17. The computer-implemented system according to claim 16, wherein at least one of a height or a width of a convolutional kernel of a convolutional layer in the convolutional neural network model is equal to a quantity of the plurality of feature types.
18. The computer-implemented system according to claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise, after training the risk management machine learning model using the training samples: obtaining service data generated during a specified time period that describes a transaction activity, and partitioning the specified time period into one or more sub time periods; for each sub time period, determining respective features of the service data in the sub time period; generating a plurality of feature sequences, comprising, for each feature type: sorting the respective features of the service data belonging to the feature type in the one or more sub time periods based on a corresponding sorting rule; and classifying whether the transaction activity described by the service data is legal by inputting the plurality of feature sequences into the risk management machine learning model to generate a classification output.
</claims>
</document>
