<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34,G01C21/36,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARAHUSH, JONATHAN
BATTA, ANDREW
KEARNEY, CHAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70279066
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and Systems for Determining and Assigning a Primary Point-of-Interest Type for a Point-of-Interest
</title>

<abstract>
An exemplary point-of-interest identification system accesses data for a point-of-interest. The system generates a plurality of scores for the point-of-interest based on one or more of a plurality of predefined features found in the data for the point-of-interest and on a machine learning model. The system selects, based on the plurality of scores, a primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest. The system includes the selected primary point-of-interest in a dataset for the point-of-interest. Corresponding methods and systems are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: accessing, by a point-of-interest identification system, data for a point-of-interest; generating, by the point-of-interest identification system, a plurality of scores for the point-of-interest based on one or more of a plurality of predefined features found in the data for the point-of-interest and on a machine learning model; selecting, by the point-of-interest identification system based on the plurality of scores, a primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest; and including, by the point-of-interest identification system, the selected primary point-of-interest in a dataset for the point-of-interest.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the plurality of scores for the point-of-interest comprises submitting a vector for the point-of-interest as input to a trained neural network that outputs the plurality of scores for the point-of-interest, wherein the vector includes a plurality of values, each value determined based on whether a respective one of the plurality of predefined features is found in the data for the point-of-interest.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting, by a computer-implemented mapping service system based on the selected primary point-of-interest type, an icon for the point-of-interest; and providing, by the computer-implemented mapping service system, the selected icon for the point-of-interest for display on a user interface map, wherein each of the plurality of point-of-interest types is associated with a different icon.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting of the primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest comprises: determining, by the point-of-interest identification system, a position within a vector for a highest-ranked score of the plurality of scores; and selecting, by the point-of-interest identification system based on the position within the vector for the highest-ranked score, a point-of-interest type as the primary point-of-interest type, wherein the point-of-interest type is associated with the position within the vector for the highest-ranked score.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting of the primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest comprises: determining, by the point-of-interest identification system, that none of the plurality of scores satisfy a threshold score level; and selecting, by the point-of-interest identification system based on none of the plurality of scores satisfying the threshold score level, a generic point-of-interest type as the primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting of the primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest comprises: determining, by the point-of-interest identification system, that a highest-ranked score of the plurality of scores is located at a flagged position within a vector of the plurality of scores; and selecting, by the point-of-interest identification system based on the highest-ranked score of the plurality of scores being located at the flagged position within the vector, a generic point-of-interest type as the primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: during a training phase of the point-of-interest identification system receiving, by the point-of-interest identification system, a test vector for a test point-of-interest, the test vector including a plurality of values, each value determined based on whether a respective one of the plurality of predefined features is found in test data for the test point-of-interest; receiving, by the point-of-interest identification system, an identification of a point-of-interest type for the test point-of-interest; and training, by the point-of-interest identification system, a computer scoring model based on the test vector for the test point-of-interest and the identification of the point-on-interest type for the test point-of-interest.
8. A system comprising: at least one physical computing device configured to: access data for a point-of-interest; generate a plurality of scores for the point-of-interest based on one or more of a plurality of predefined features found in the data for the point-of-interest and on a machine learning model; select, based on the plurality of scores, a primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest; and include the selected primary point-of-interest in a dataset for the point-of-interest.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the generation of the plurality of scores for the point-of-interest comprises submitting a vector for the point-of-interest as input to a trained neural network that outputs the plurality of scores for the point-of-interest, wherein the vector includes a plurality of values, each value determined based on whether a respective one of the plurality of predefined features is found in the data for the point-of-interest.
10. The system of claim 8, further comprising at least one other physical computing device configured to: select, based on the selected primary point-of-interest type, an icon for the point-of-interest; and provide the selected icon for the point-of-interest for display on a user interface map, wherein each of the plurality of point-of-interest types is associated with a different icon.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the selection of the primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest comprises: determining a position within a vector for a highest-ranked score of the plurality of scores; and selecting, based on the position within the vector for the highest-ranked score, a point-of-interest type as the primary point-of-interest type, wherein the point-of-interest type is associated with the position within the vector for the highest-ranked score.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the selection of the primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest comprises: determining that none of the plurality of scores satisfy a threshold score level; and selecting, based on none of the plurality of scores satisfying the threshold score level, a generic point-of-interest type as the primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the selection of the primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest comprises: determining that a highest-ranked score of the plurality of scores is located at a flagged position within a vector of the plurality of scores; and selecting, based on the highest-ranked score of the plurality of scores being located at the flagged position within the vector, a generic point-of-interest type as the primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein, during a training phase of the system, the at least one physical computing device is further configured to: receive a test vector for a test point-of-interest, the test vector including a plurality of values, each value determined based on whether a respective one of the plurality of predefined features is found in test data for the test point-of-interest; receive an identification of a point-of-interest type for the test point-of-interest; and train a computer scoring model based on the test vector for the test point-of-interest and the identification of the point-on-interest type for the test point-of-interest.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed, direct at least one processor of a computing device to: access data for a point-of-interest; generate a plurality of scores for the point-of-interest based on one or more of a plurality of predefined features found in the data for the point-of-interest and on a machine learning model; select, based on the plurality of scores, a primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest; and include the selected primary point-of-interest in a dataset for the point-of-interest.
16. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the generation of the plurality of scores for the point-of-interest comprises submitting a vector for the point-of-interest as input to a trained neural network that outputs the plurality of scores for the point-of-interest, wherein the vector includes a plurality of values, each value determined based on whether a respective one of the plurality of predefined features is found in the data for the point-of-interest.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the selection of the primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest comprises: determining a position within a vector for a highest-ranked score of the plurality of scores; and selecting, based on the position within the vector for the highest-ranked score, a point-of-interest type as the primary point-of-interest type, wherein the point-of-interest type is associated with the position within the vector for the highest-ranked score.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the selection of the primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest comprises: determining that none of the plurality of scores satisfy a threshold score level; and selecting, based on none of the plurality of scores satisfying the threshold score level, a generic point-of-interest type as the primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the selection of the primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest comprises: determining that a highest-ranked score of the plurality of scores is located at a flagged position within a vector of the plurality of scores; and selecting, based on the highest-ranked score of the plurality of scores being located at the flagged position within the vector, a generic point-of-interest type as the primary point-of-interest type for the point-of-interest.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein, during a training phase of the system, the instructions, when executed, direct the at least one processor of the computing device to: receive a test vector for a test point-of-interest, the test vector including a plurality of values, each value determined based on whether a respective one of the plurality of predefined features is found in test data for the test point-of-interest; receive an identification of a point-of-interest type for the test point-of-interest; and train a computer scoring model based on the test vector for the test point-of-interest and the identification of the point-on-interest type for the test point-of-interest.
</claims>
</document>
