<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/03,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06T7/00,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEC COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ITO TETSUYA
AOKI, NORIYUKI
TAKAOKA, MASANORI
YOKOTA, Hiroki
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66750590
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OBJECT DETECTION APPARATUS, PREDICTION MODEL GENERATION APPARATUS, OBJECT DETECTION METHOD, AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
An object detection apparatus comprising: an input part configured to input video data, an extraction part configured to extract image data from the video data, and a determination part configured to determine whether or not the image data includes an object, wherein the determination part is configured to: set a plurality of regions in a learning image data such that the object appearing in the learning image data extracted from a learning video data captured in advance extends over at least the plurality of regions, assign a learning teach label to each of the regions set, and determine whether or not the image data includes the object by using a prediction model generated by utilizing the learning teach label assigned to each of the regions set.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An object detection apparatus, comprising: an input part configured to input video data; an extraction part configured to extract image data from the video data; and a determination part configured to determine whether or not the image data includes an object, wherein the determination part is configured to: set a plurality of regions in a learning image data such that the object appearing in the learning image data extracted from a learning video data captured in advance extends over at least the plurality of regions, assign a learning teach label to each of the regions set, and determine whether or not the image data includes the object by using a prediction model generated by utilizing the learning teach label assigned to each of the regions set.
2. The object detection apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the video data and the learning video data are a video data that is captured by a camera moving in a same pattern.
3. The object detection apparatus according to claim 2, further comprising: an error determination elimination part configured to confirm whether or not a determination result by the determination part is in error, based on a rule(s) that is configured by an appearance(s) of the object in the video data that is captured by the camera moving in the same pattern.
4. The object detection apparatus according to claim 3, further comprising: an index generation part configured to generate index information indicating a timing when the object appears in the video data, based on a determination result by the determination part and the error determination elimination part.
5. The object detection apparatus according to claim 4, further comprising: a position information acquisition part configured to acquire position information that identifies a captured position of the video data, wherein the index generation part is configured to generate the index information including the captured position of the object.
6. The object detection apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a pre-processing part configured to apply pre-processing that is the same processing as one processed to the learning image data extracted from the learning video data, to the image data extracted from the video data.
7. The object detection apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the prediction model is generated by assigning the learning teach label to each of N regions, by setting N regions extending over a longitudinal direction of the object appearing in the learning image data.
8. A prediction model generation apparatus, comprising: an input part configured to input learning video data captured in advance, an extraction part configured to extract learning image data from the learning video data, and a learning engine configured to generate a prediction model by setting a plurality of regions in the learning image data such that an object appearing in the learning image data extracted from the learning video data extends over at least the plurality of regions, and by assigning a learning teach label to each of the regions set.
9. An object detection method from video data performed by a computer comprising an input part configured to input the video data, the computer performing processings comprising: extracting of image data from the video data, and determining whether or not the image data includes an object by setting a plurality of regions in the learning image data such that the object appearing in the learning image data extracted from learning video data captured in advance extends over at least the plurality of regions, and by assigning a learning teach label to each of the regions set.
10. (canceled)
11. The prediction model generation apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the video data and the learning video data are a video data that is captured by a camera moving in a same pattern.
12. The prediction model generation apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising: an error determination elimination part configured to confirm whether or not a determination result by the determination part is in error, based on a rule(s) that is configured by an appearance(s) of the object in the video data that is captured by the camera moving in the same pattern.
13. The prediction model generation apparatus according to claim 12, further comprising: an index generation part configured to generate index information indicating a timing when the object appears in the video data, based on a determination result by the determination part and the error determination elimination part.
14. The prediction model generation apparatus according to claim 13, further comprising: a position information acquisition part configured to acquire position information that identifies a captured position of the video data, wherein the index generation part is configured to generate the index information including the captured position of the object.
15. The prediction model generation apparatus according to claim 8, further comprising: a pre-processing part configured to apply pre-processing that is the same processing as one processed to the learning image data extracted from the learning video data, to the image data extracted from the video data.
16. The prediction model generation apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the prediction model is generated by assigning the learning teach label to each of N regions, by setting N regions extending over a longitudinal direction of the object appearing in the learning image data.
17. The object detection method according to claim 9, wherein the video data and the learning video data are a video data that is captured by a camera moving in a same pattern.
18. The object detection method according to claim 17, further comprising: eliminating an error determination configured to confirm whether or not a determination result by the determination part is in error, based on a rule(s) that is configured by an appearance(s) of the object in the video data that is captured by the camera moving in the same pattern.
19. The object detection method according to claim 18, further comprising: generating an index configured to generate index information indicating a timing when the object appears in the video data, based on a determination result by the determination part and the error determination elimination part.
20. The object detection method according to claim 19, further comprising: acquiring a position information configured to acquire position information that identifies a captured position of the video data, wherein generating the index is further configured to generate the index information including the captured position of the object.
21. The object detection method according to claim 20, further comprising: applying pre-processing that is the same processing as one processed to the learning image data extracted from the learning video data, to the image data extracted from the video data.
</claims>
</document>
