<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2455,G06F16/25
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TIBCO SOFTWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HILL, THOMAS
O'CONNELL, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72662305
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM FOR EFFICIENT INFORMATION EXTRACTION FROM STREAMING DATA VIA EXPERIMENTAL DESIGNS
</title>

<abstract>
A system, method, and computer-readable medium for extracting the samples from big data to extract most information about the relationships of interest between dimensions and variables in the data repository. More specifically, extracting information from lame data repositories follows an adaptive process that uses systematic sampling procedures derived from optimal experimental designs to target from a large data set specific observations with information value of interest for the analytic task under consideration. The application of adaptive optimal design to guide exploration of large data repositories provides advantages over known big data technologies.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implementable method for identifying information within a data repository, comprising: selecting variables of interest within the data repository to provide selected variables; defining a depth of interactions of interest with respect to the variables of interest to provide a defined depth of interactions; applying an optimal experimental design operation to the selected variables and the defined depth of interactions, the applying providing returned data based upon the optimal experimental design operation; and performing operations on the returned data, the returned data providing a sample matrix of the data repository.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: defining the depth of interactions that are of interest further comprises determining whether to only consider information that can be extracted using each variable of interest.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein: defining the depth of interactions that are of interest further comprises determining whether to consider certain interactions of the variables of interest.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein: the certain interactions comprise at least one of two-way interactions and multiplications of two design vectors based upon the variables.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein: defining the depth of interactions that are of interest further comprises determining types of variables to consider, the types of variables being identified as continuous variables, rank-ordered variables and discrete variables.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein: defining the depth of interactions that are of interest further comprises identifying known constraints on relationships between the variables of interest.
7. A system comprising: a processor; a data bus coupled to the processor; and a non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium embodying computer program code, the non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium being coupled to the data bus, the computer program code interacting with a plurality of computer operations and comprising instructions executable by the processor and configured for: selecting variables of interest within the data repository to provide selected variables; defining a depth of interactions of interest with respect to the variables of interest to provide a defined depth of interactions; applying an optimal experimental design operation to the selected variables and the defined depth of interactions, the applying providing returned data based upon the optimal experimental design operation; and performing operations on the returned data, the returned data providing a sample matrix of the data repository.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein: defining the depth of interactions that are of interest further comprises determining whether to only consider information that can be extracted using each variable of interest.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein: defining the depth of interactions that are of interest further comprises determining whether to consider certain interactions of the variables of interest.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein: the certain interactions comprise at least one of two-way interactions and multiplications of two design vectors based upon the variables.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein: defining the depth of interactions that are of interest further comprises determining types of variables to consider, the types of variables being identified as continuous variables, rank-ordered variables and discrete variables.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein: defining the depth of interactions that are of interest further comprises identifying known constraints on relationships between the variables of interest.
13. A non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium embodying computer program code, the computer program code comprising computer executable instructions configured for: selecting variables of interest within the data repository to provide selected variables; defining a depth of interactions of interest with respect to the variables of interest to provide a defined depth of interactions; applying an optimal experimental design operation to the selected variables and the defined depth of interactions, the applying providing returned data based upon the optimal experimental design operation; and performing operations on the returned data, the returned data providing a sample matrix of the data repository.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: defining the depth of interactions that are of interest further comprises determining whether to only consider information that can be extracted using each variable of interest.
15. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: defining the depth of interactions that are of interest further comprises determining whether to consider certain interactions of the variables of interest.
16. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein: the certain interactions comprise at least one of two-way interactions and multiplications of two design vectors based upon the variables.
17. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: defining the depth of interactions that are of interest further comprises determining types of variables to consider, the types of variables being identified as continuous variables, rank-ordered variables and discrete variables.
18. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: defining the depth of interactions that are of interest further comprises identifying known constraints on relationships between the variables of interest.
</claims>
</document>
