<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64F5/60,G06N5/02,G06N5/04,G07C5/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAWLEY, MEGAN L.
MYLARASWAMY, DINKAR
Chandra Mohan, Ananda Vel Murugan
Robinson, Cavene
Griffith, Timothy
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70977687
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MAINTENANCE RECOMMENDATIONS USING LIFECYCLE CLUSTERING
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems are provided for predictive maintenance of a vehicle component. One method involves mapping a current instance of a component of a vehicle to one of plurality of degradation groups of prior lifecycles for other instances of the component based on a relationship between performance measurement data for the current instance and historical performance measurement data associated with that respective degradation group, obtaining contextual data associated with operation of the vehicle, and determining a maintenance recommendation for the current instance of the component based on the contextual data using a predictive maintenance model associated with the mapped degradation group.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of monitoring a component of a vehicle, the method comprising: obtaining measurement data indicative of performance of the component; mapping the component to a first degradation group from among a plurality of degradation groups based on a relationship between the measurement data and historical measurement data associated with the first degradation group; obtaining contextual data associated with operation of the vehicle; and determining a maintenance recommendation for the component based on the contextual data using a predictive maintenance model associated with the first degradation group.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein mapping the component comprises: determining, for each degradation group, a respective distance between the measurement data indicative of the performance of component and representative data for the respective degradation group; and identifying the first degradation group as having a minimum distance between the measurement data indicative of the performance of component and representative data for the first degradation group.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying the plurality of degradation groups based on similarities between respective subsets of the historical measurement data, wherein each degradation group of the plurality of degradation groups comprises a respective subset of prior lifecycles for instances of the component.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: obtaining historical contextual data associated with the respective subset of prior lifecycles for instances of the component identified as the first degradation group based on similarities between the respective subset of historical measurement data for the respective subset of prior lifecycles identified as the first degradation group; and determining the predictive maintenance model associated with the first degradation group based at least in part on the historical contextual data associated with the respective subset of prior lifecycles and the respective subset of historical measurement data for the respective subset of prior lifecycles.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising obtaining historical maintenance data associated with the respective subset of prior lifecycles, wherein determining the predictive maintenance model comprises determining the predictive maintenance model based at least in part on relationships between the historical maintenance data, the historical contextual data, and the respective subset of historical measurement data.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein: determining the predictive maintenance model comprises: performing association rule mining to identify a contextual variable as being correlative to the historical maintenance data; and determining the predictive maintenance model as a function of the contextual variable; the contextual data associated with operation of the vehicle includes recent data for the contextual variable; and determining the maintenance recommendation comprises determining the maintenance recommendation based at least in part on the recent data for the contextual variable using the predictive maintenance model.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein mapping the component comprises: for each degradation group: determining representative data for the respective degradation group based on the respective subset of the historical measurement data for the respective subset of prior lifecycles for instances of the component assigned to the respective degradation group; and determining a respective distance between the measurement data indicative of the performance of component and the representative data for the respective degradation group; and identifying the first degradation group as having a minimum distance between the measurement data indicative of the performance of component and representative data for the first degradation group.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the vehicle comprises an aircraft, the component comprises an auxiliary power unit (APU), and the measurement data comprises at least one of exhaust gas temperature (EGT) measurement data, inlet guide vane position measurement data, fuel pump pressure measurement data, and oil temperature measurement data.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising performing clustering to identify the plurality of degradation groups based on similarities between respective subsets of historical EGT measurement data associated with respective subsets of prior lifecycles for instances of the APU.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the maintenance recommendation comprises calculating an expected lifecycle duration for the component based on the contextual data using the predictive maintenance model associated with the first degradation group, wherein a maintenance schedule for the component is influenced by the expected lifecycle duration.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the maintenance recommendation comprises calculating a probability of a maintenance action for the component based on the contextual data using the predictive maintenance model associated with the first degradation group, wherein a maintenance schedule for the component is influenced by the probability of the maintenance action.
12. A computer-readable medium having computer-executable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by a processing system, cause the processing system to perform the method of claim 1.
13. A method of monitoring an APU onboard an aircraft, the method comprising: obtaining exhaust gas temperature (EGT) measurement data during operation of the APU; identifying the APU as belonging to a first degradation group of APU lifecycles from among a plurality of degradation groups based on a relationship between the EGT measurement data and historical EGT measurement data associated with the APU lifecycles of the first degradation group; determining a predictive maintenance model for the first degradation group based on relationships between the historical EGT measurement data associated with the APU lifecycles of the first degradation group, historical contextual data associated with the APU lifecycles of the first degradation group, and historical maintenance data associated with the APU lifecycles of the first degradation group; obtaining contextual operational data for the APU; and determining a maintenance recommendation for the APU based on the contextual operational data using the predictive maintenance model associated with the first degradation group, wherein a maintenance schedule for the APU is influenced by the maintenance recommendation.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising determining the plurality of degradation groups by clustering different subsets of APU lifecycles based on similarity between the respective historical EGT measurement data associated with respective APU lifecycles of the respective degradation groups.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein identifying the APU as belonging to a first degradation group comprises: determining, for each degradation group, a respective distance between the EGT measurement data and representative EGT measurement data determined based the respective historical EGT measurement data associated with respective APU lifecycles of the respective degradation groups; and identifying the first degradation group as having a minimum distance between the EGT measurement data and the representative EGT measurement data for the first degradation group.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein determining the predictive maintenance model comprises performing association rule mining using the historical EGT measurement data associated with the APU lifecycles of the first degradation group and historical contextual data associated with the APU lifecycles of the first degradation group with respect to the historical maintenance data associated with the APU lifecycles of the first degradation group.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the contextual operational data includes at least one of ambient meteorological data or climate zone data pertaining to operation of the aircraft.
18. A system comprising: a first data storage element to maintain a plurality of predictive maintenance models, each predictive maintenance model of the plurality being associated with a respective degradation group of a plurality of degradation groups, each degradation group of the plurality of degradation groups comprising a subset of lifecycles associated with different instances of a vehicle component; a computing system to obtain measurement data indicative of performance of a current instance of the vehicle component, map the current instance of the vehicle component to a first degradation group from among the plurality of degradation groups based on a relationship between the measurement data and historical measurement data associated with a first subset of lifecycles comprising the first degradation group, obtain a first predictive maintenance model associated with the first degradation group from the first data storage element, obtain contextual data associated with operation of the current instance of the vehicle component, and determine a maintenance metric value for the current instance of the vehicle component based on the contextual data using the first predictive maintenance model; and a maintenance system coupled to the computing system to determine a maintenance schedule for the current instance of the vehicle component in a manner that is influenced by the maintenance metric value.
19. The system of claim 18, further comprising a second data storage element to maintain operating records including the historical measurement data associated with the first subset of lifecycles comprising the first degradation group, wherein the computing system is coupled to the second data storage element to obtain the historical measurement data from the second data storage element, determine representative measurement data for the first degradation group based on the historical measurement data associated with the first subset of lifecycles, and map the current instance of the vehicle component to the first degradation group based on a distance between the measurement data and the representative measurement data.
20. The system of claim 19, further comprising a third data storage element to maintain maintenance records including historical maintenance data associated with the first subset of lifecycles comprising the first degradation group, wherein the computing system is coupled to the third data storage element to obtain the historical maintenance data from the third data storage element, obtain historical contextual data associated with the first subset of lifecycles from the operating records, and determine the first predictive maintenance model based on a relationship between the historical maintenance data and the historical contextual data.
</claims>
</document>
