<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANJO CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
NEWMAN, JOSHUA J.
Rodriguez, Brian
Pathicherikollamparambil, Krishnamohan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74103149
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEGMENTING VIDEO STREAM FRAMES
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention extends to methods, systems, and computer program products for segmenting video stream frames. In one aspect, video stream frames are segmented into more relevant segments (e.g., including roadway) and less relevant segments (e.g., not including roadway). Different segments can be handled differently. For example, more relevant segments can be processed to identify vehicles, identify events, etc. and less relevant segments may be ignored. Accordingly, resources can be utilized more efficiently. In one aspect, a binary mask is generated from object data in one or more frames. The binary mask is applied to further frames blocking out less relevant frame segments in the further frames.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: accessing a frame from a camera video stream; generating a first object color mask from contents of the frame, including: detecting objects of a plurality of different object types in the frame including a first instance of an object type and a first instance of another object type; assigning a different color to different objects in the frame based on object type, including assigning a first color to the first instance of the object type and assigning a second color to the first instance of the other object type; determining the first instance of the object type is within the first instance of the other object type; and re-assigning the second color to the first instance of the object type; accessing another frame from the camera video stream; generating a second object color mask from contents of the other frame, including: detecting other objects of the plurality of the different object types in the other frame including a second instance of the object type and a second instance of the other object type; assigning a different color to different objects in the other frame based on the object type, including assigning the first color to the second instance of the object type and assigning a second color to the second instance of the other object type; determining the second instance of the object type is within the second instance of the other object type; and re-assigning the second color to the second instance of the object type; combining the first object color mask and the second object color mask into an aggregate color mask; computing a binary mask from the aggregate color mask, including assigning a binary value of one to portions of the aggregate color mask having the second color value and assigning a binary value of zero to portions of the aggregate color mask having other color values; and applying the binary mask to a further frame from the camera video stream highlighting instances of the other object type in the further frame.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting objects of a plurality of different object types in the frame comprises detecting a vehicle object and a roadway portion object in the frame; wherein assigning a different color to different objects comprises assigning a first color to the vehicle object and a second color to the roadway portion object; wherein determining the first instance of the object type is within the first instance of the other object type comprises determining that the vehicle object is in the roadway portion object; and wherein re-assigning the second color to the first instance of the object type comprises reassigning the second color to the vehicle object.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein detecting objects of a plurality of different object types in the other frame comprises detecting another vehicle object and another roadway portion object in the other frame; wherein assigning a different color to different objects comprises assigning a first color to the other vehicle object and a second color to the other roadway portion object; wherein determining the second instance of the object type is within the second instance of the other object type comprises determining that the other vehicle object is in the other roadway portion object; and wherein re-assigning the second color to the second instance of the object type comprises reassigning the second color to the other vehicle object.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein applying the binary mask to a further frame from the camera video stream comprises applying the binary mask highlighting a further roadway portion object in the further frame.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising detecting one or more vehicle objects in the further frame, including: limiting vehicle detection checking to highlighted roadway portion objects; and detecting the one or more vehicle objects in the further roadway portion object.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein applying the binary mask comprises masking one or more of: a tree, a bush, a guard rail, a sign, a wall, a building, or a portion of sky out of the further frame.
7. The method of claim 3, wherein detecting another vehicle object and another roadway portion object in the other frame comprises re-detecting the vehicle object and the roadway portion object in the other frame.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein re-assigning the second color to the first instance of the object type comprises re-assigning the second color to the first instance of the object type based on a defined relationship between the object type and the other object type.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the binary mask to a further frame comprises masking out portions of the further frame not associated with objects of the other object type.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein combining the first object color mask and the second object color mask into an aggregate color mask comprises comprising combining the first object color mask and the second object color mask into an average color mask.
11. A system comprising: a processor; and system memory coupled to the processor and storing instructions configured to cause the processor to: access a frame from a camera video stream; generate a first object color mask from contents of the frame, including: detect objects of a plurality of different object types in the frame including a first instance of an object type and a first instance of another object type; assign a different color to different objects in the frame based on object type, including assigning a first color to the first instance of the object type and assigning a second color to the first instance of the other object type; determine the first instance of the object type is within the first instance of the other object type; and re-assign the second color to the first instance of the object type; access another frame from the camera video stream; generate a second object color mask from contents of the other frame, including: detect other objects of the plurality of the different object types in the other frame including a second instance of the object type and a second instance of the other object type; assign a different color to different objects in the other frame based on the object type, including assigning the first color to the second instance of the object type and assigning a second color to the second instance of the other object type; determine the second instance of the object type is within the second instance of the other object type; and re-assign the second color to the second instance of the object type; combine the first object color mask and the second object color mask into an aggregate color mask; compute a binary mask from the aggregate color mask, including assigning a binary value of one to portions of the aggregate color mask having the second color value and assigning a binary value of zero to portions of the aggregate color mask having other color values; and apply the binary mask to a further frame from the camera video stream highlighting instances of the other object type in the further frame.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein instructions configured to detect objects of a plurality of different object types in the frame comprise instructions configured to detect a vehicle object and a roadway portion object in the frame; wherein instructions configured to assign a different color to different objects comprise instructions configured to assign a first color to the vehicle object and a second color to the roadway portion object; wherein instructions configured to determine the first instance of the object type is within the first instance of the other object type comprise instructions configured to determine that the vehicle object is in the roadway portion object; and wherein instructions configured to re-assign the second color to the first instance of the object type comprise instructions configured to reassign the second color to the vehicle object.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein instructions configured to detect objects of a plurality of different object types in the other frame comprise instructions configured to detect another vehicle object and another roadway portion object in the other frame; wherein instructions configured to assign a different color to different objects comprise instructions configured to assign a first color to the other vehicle object and a second color to the other roadway portion object; wherein instructions configured to determine the second instance of the object type is within the second instance of the other object type comprises instructions configured to determine that the other vehicle object is in the other roadway portion object; and wherein instructions configured to re-assign the second color to the second instance of the object type comprise instructions configured to reassign the second color to the other vehicle object.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein instructions configured to apply the binary mask to a further frame from the camera video stream comprise instructions configured to apply the binary mask highlighting a further roadway portion object in the further frame.
15. The system of claim 14, further comprising instructions configured to detect one or more vehicle objects in the further frame, including instructions configured to: limit vehicle detection checking to highlighted roadway portion objects; and detect the one or more vehicle objects in the further roadway portion object.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein instructions configured to apply the binary mask comprise instructions configured to mask one or more of: a tree, a bush, a guard rail, a sign, a wall, a building, or a portion of sky out of the further frame.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein instructions configured to detect another vehicle object and another roadway portion object in the other frame comprise instructions configured to re-detect the vehicle object and the roadway portion object in the other frame.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein instructions configured to re-assign the second color to the first instance of the object type comprise instructions configured to re-assign the second color to the first instance of the object type based on a defined relationship between the object type and the other object type.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein instructions configured to apply the binary mask to a further frame comprise instructions configured to mask out portions of the further frame not associated with objects of the other object type.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein instructions configured to combine the first object color mask and the second object color mask into an aggregate color mask comprise instructions configured to combine the first object color mask and the second object color mask into an average color mask.
</claims>
</document>
