<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/46,H04L12/715,H04L12/723,H04L12/741,H04L12/749,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DUNBAR, LINDA
GUO FENG
Zhao, Katherine
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65685981
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-CLOUD VPC ROUTING AND REGISTRATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method for performing virtual private cloud (VPC) routing across multiple public cloud environments. In an embodiment, the method creates a first virtual routing agent (VRA) for a first VPC of a first public cloud. The method sends a registration request to a VRA controller, wherein the registration request comprises a data structure that includes communication parameters of the first VRA. The method receives the communication parameters of other VRAs for other VPCs located in other public cloud environments from the VRA controller. The method uses the communication parameters of the other VRAs for overlay routing of data packets from the first VPC of the first public cloud to other VPCs of other public clouds via the other VRAs of the other VPCs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for performing virtual private cloud (VPC) routing across multiple public cloud environments, the method comprising: creating a first virtual routing agent (VRA) for a first VPC of a first public cloud; sending a registration request to a VRA controller, wherein the registration request comprises a data structure that includes communication parameters of the first VRA; receiving communication parameters of other VRAs for other VPCs located in other public cloud environments from the VRA controller; and using the communication parameters of the other VRAs for overlay routing of data packets from the first VPC of the first public cloud to other VPCs of other public clouds via the other VRAs of the other VPCs.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising saving the communication parameters of other VRAs for other VPCs located in other public cloud environments in a local store.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving updated communication parameters of the other VRAs for the other VPCs located in other public cloud environments from the VRA controller in response to a new VRA being registered with the VRA controller since a last time that the communication parameters of the other VRAs were received by the first VRA.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving updated communication parameters of the other VRAs for the other VPCs located in other public cloud environments from the VRA controller in response to a VRA being decommissioned since a last time that the communication parameters of the other VRAs were received by the first VRA.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving incoming data packets from one of the other VRAs; decapsulating a VPC header portion of the incoming data packets; and forwarding the incoming data packets to the first VPC.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the data structure that includes the communication parameters comprises a cloud provider identifier (ID), a VPC ID, a VPC internal Internet Protocol (IP) address structure, a service metadata structure, and a security service data structure.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first VRA sends the registration request to the VRA controller during a startup process of the first VRA.
8. A method for performing virtual private cloud (VPC) routing across multiple public cloud environments, the method comprising: receiving, by a virtual routing agent (VRA) controller, a registration request from a first VRA, wherein the registration request comprises a data structure that includes communication parameters of the first VRA; registering, by the VRA controller, the first VRA; and sending, by the VRA controller, communication parameters of other VRAs to the first VRA to enable the first VRA to communicate outgoing data packets to other VRAs, wherein the other VRAs are located in a different public cloud than the first VRA.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the communication parameters of the other VRAs are encapsulated into a VPC header portion of the outgoing data packets.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the outgoing data packets are transmitted using Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4) protocol or using Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6) protocol.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the outgoing data packets are transmitted using Generic Routing Encapsulation (GRE) protocol.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the outgoing data packets are transmitted using Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) routing.
13. An apparatus for performing virtual private cloud (VPC) routing across multiple public cloud environments, the apparatus comprising: a memory storing instructions; and at least one processor coupled to the memory and configured to execute the instructions to cause the apparatus to: create a first virtual routing agent (VRA) for a first VPC of a first public cloud; send a registration request to a VRA controller, wherein the registration request comprises a data structure that includes communication parameters of the first VRA; receive communication parameters of other VRAs for other VPCs located in other public cloud environments from the VRA controller; and use the communication parameters of the other VRAs for overlay routing of data packets from the first VPC of the first public cloud to other VPCs of other public clouds via the other VRAs of the other VPCs.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the processor is configured to save the communication parameters of other VRAs for other VPCs located in other public cloud environments in a local store.
15. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a receiver coupled to the processor, the receiver configured to receive updated communication parameters of the other VRAs for the other VPCs located in other public cloud environments from the VRA controller in response to: a new VRA being registered with the VRA controller since a last time that the communication parameters of the other VRAs were received by the first VRA; or a VRA being decommissioned since a last time that the communication parameters of the other VRAs were received by the first VRA.
16. An apparatus for performing virtual private cloud (VPC) routing across multiple public cloud environments, the apparatus comprising: a memory storing instructions; and at least one processor coupled to the memory and configured to execute the instructions to cause the apparatus to: receive a registration request from a first virtual routing agent (VRA), wherein the registration request comprises a data structure that includes communication parameters of the first VRA; and register the first VRA; and a transmitter coupled to the processor, the transmitter configured to transmit communication parameters of other VRAs to the first VRA to enable the first VRA to communicate outgoing data packets to other VRAs, wherein the other VRAs are located in a different public cloud than the first VRA.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the communication parameters of the other VRAs are encapsulated into a VPC header portion of the outgoing data packets.
18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the communication parameters of the other VRAs are encapsulated into a VPC header portion of the outgoing data packets.
19. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the outgoing data packets are transmitted using Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4) protocol or Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6) protocol.
20. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the outgoing data packets are transmitted using Generic Routing Encapsulation (GRE) protocol or Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) routing.
</claims>
</document>
