<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/93,G06N20/20,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DUFFY, BENJAMIN
QIAN WEI
ZHOU, LIJUAN
ZUO, XIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971086
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HYBRID MODEL FOR DATA AUDITING
</title>

<abstract>
Implementations include processing a set of documents using an auto-encoder to provide a first sub-set of documents, the first sub-set of documents including electronic documents with a relatively high likelihood of providing true positives in an auditing process, processing a sub-set of documents using a set of auto-generated rules to provide a second sub-set of documents, the second sub-set of documents including electronic documents with a relatively high likelihood of providing false positives in an auditing process, and defining a master set of documents for the auditing process based on the sub-set of documents, the first sub-set of documents, and the second sub-set of documents, the master set of documents including at least a portion of the sub-set of documents, and at least a portion of the first sub-set of documents, and being absent the second sub-set of documents.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method executed by one or more processors, the method comprising: processing, by the one or more processors, a set of documents using an auto-encoder to provide a first sub-set of documents, the first sub-set of documents comprising electronic documents with a relatively high likelihood of providing true positives in an auditing process; processing, by the one or more processors, a sub-set of documents using a set of auto-generated rules to provide a second sub-set of documents, the second sub-set of documents comprising electronic documents with a relatively high likelihood of providing false positives in an auditing process; and defining, by the one or more processors, a master set of documents for the auditing process based on the sub-set of documents, the first sub-set of documents, and the second sub-set of documents, the master set of documents including at least a portion of the sub-set of documents, and at least a portion of the first sub-set of documents, and being absent the second sub-set of documents.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the auto-encoder is trained based on documents in the set of documents.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein a score is determined for each document based on the auto-encoder, and documents are selected for inclusion in the first sub-set of documents based on respective scores.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein documents in the first sub-set of documents are prioritized.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising applying a set of pre-defined rules to documents in the set of documents to determine respective non-compliance scores, wherein documents in the set of documents are selected for inclusion in the sub-set of documents based on respective non-compliance scores.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the sub-set of documents includes documents having potential for a determination of non-compliance in the auditing process.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the auto-generated rules are provided using a random forest generated based on the set of documents.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising pre-processing an initial set of documents to provide the set of documents, pre-processing comprising one or more of adding data, renaming data, converting data, and removing data.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein a number of documents in the first sub-set of documents is equal to a number of documents in the second sub-set of documents.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying one or more initial features in the set of documents.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the auto-encoder determines one or more intermediate features based on the one or more initial features, and determines one or more reconstructed features based on the one or more intermediate features.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the auto-encoder compares the one or more reconstructed features relative to the one or more initial features to provide the first sub-set of documents.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium coupled to one or more processors and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: processing a set of documents using an auto-encoder to provide a first sub-set of documents, the first sub-set of documents comprising electronic documents with a relatively high likelihood of providing true positives in an auditing process; processing a sub-set of documents using a set of auto-generated rules to provide a second sub-set of documents, the second sub-set of documents comprising electronic documents with a relatively high likelihood of providing false positives in an auditing process; and defining a master set of documents for the auditing process based on the sub-set of documents, the first sub-set of documents, and the second sub-set of documents, the master set of documents including at least a portion of the sub-set of documents, and at least a portion of the first sub-set of documents, and being absent the second sub-set of documents.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the auto-encoder is trained based on documents in the set of documents.
15. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein a score is determined for each document based on the auto-encoder, and documents are selected for inclusion in the first sub-set of documents based on respective scores.
16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein documents in the first sub-set of documents are prioritized.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein operations further comprise applying a set of pre-defined rules to documents in the set of documents to determine respective non-compliance scores, wherein documents in the set of documents are selected for inclusion in the sub-set of documents based on respective non-compliance scores.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the sub-set of documents includes documents having potential for a determination of non-compliance in the auditing process.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the auto-generated rules are provided using a random forest generated based on the set of documents.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein operations further comprise pre-processing an initial set of documents to provide the set of documents, pre-processing comprising one or more of adding data, renaming data, converting data, and removing data.
21. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein a number of documents in the first sub-set of documents is equal to a number of documents in the second sub-set of documents.
22. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein operations further comprise identifying one or more initial features in the set of documents.
23. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 22, wherein the auto-encoder determines one or more intermediate features based on the one or more initial features, and determines one or more reconstructed features based on the one or more intermediate features.
24. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein the auto-encoder compares the one or more reconstructed features relative to the one or more initial features to provide the first sub-set of documents.
25. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and a computer-readable storage device coupled to the one or more processors and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: a processing a set of documents using an auto-encoder to provide a first sub-set of documents, the first sub-set of documents comprising electronic documents with a relatively high likelihood of providing true positives in an auditing process; processing a sub-set of documents using a set of auto-generated rules to provide a second sub-set of documents, the second sub-set of documents comprising electronic documents with a relatively high likelihood of providing false positives in an auditing process; and defining a master set of documents for the auditing process based on the sub-set of documents, the first sub-set of documents, and the second sub-set of documents, the master set of documents including at least a portion of the sub-set of documents, and at least a portion of the first sub-set of documents, and being absent the second sub-set of documents.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the auto-encoder is trained based on documents in the set of documents.
27. The system of claim 25, wherein a score is determined for each document based on the auto-encoder, and documents are selected for inclusion in the first sub-set of documents based on respective scores.
28. The system of claim 25, wherein documents in the first sub-set of documents are prioritized.
29. The system of claim 25, wherein operations further comprise applying a set of pre-defined rules to documents in the set of documents to determine respective non-compliance scores, wherein documents in the set of documents are selected for inclusion in the sub-set of documents based on respective non-compliance scores.
30. The system of claim 25, wherein the sub-set of documents includes documents having potential for a determination of non-compliance in the auditing process.
31. The system of claim 25, wherein the auto-generated rules are provided using a random forest generated based on the set of documents.
32. The system of claim 25, wherein operations further comprise pre-processing an initial set of documents to provide the set of documents, pre-processing comprising one or more of adding data, renaming data, converting data, and removing data.
33. The system of claim 25, wherein a number of documents in the first sub-set of documents is equal to a number of documents in the second sub-set of documents.
34. The system of claim 25, wherein operations further comprise identifying one or more initial features in the set of documents.
35. The system of claim 34, wherein the auto-encoder determines one or more intermediate features based on the one or more initial features, and determines one or more reconstructed features based on the one or more intermediate features.
36. The system of claim 35, wherein the auto-encoder compares the one or more reconstructed features relative to the one or more initial features to provide the first sub-set of documents.
</claims>
</document>
