<document>

<filing_date>
2017-05-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON
</assignee>

<inventors>
AIZAWA, MICHIO
DATE, ATSUSHI
FUJII KENICHI
HANDA, MASAHIRO
KOMIYAMA, MAI
MATSUSHITA, AKIHIRO
MIZUNO, SHOGO
MORISAWA, KEISUKE
TANAKA, KATSUMASA
YANO, TOMOHIRO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58995179
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTROL DEVICE, CONTROL METHOD, AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A control device for a system generates a virtual viewpoint image based on image data obtained by performing imaging from a plurality of directions using a plurality of cameras. The control device includes an obtaining unit configured to obtain game information specifying a type of game which is a target of imaging performed by the plurality of cameras, a storage unit configured to store information for associating the game information obtained by the obtaining unit with setting information of the system, and a setting unit configured to perform a setting process of the system based on the game information obtained by the obtaining unit and the information stored in the storage unit.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A control device performing a setting process of a system which generates a virtual viewpoint image based on image data obtained by performing imaging from a plurality of directions, the control device comprising: an obtaining unit configured to obtain event information including information representing a type of event which is a target of imaging from a plurality of directions; a storage controlling unit configured to cause a storage unit to store information for associating the event information obtained by the obtaining unit with setting information of the system; and a setting unit configured to perform the setting process of the system based on the information stored in the storage unit.
2. The control device according to claim 1, wherein the event information obtained by the obtaining unit includes information representing a starting time of the event which is the imaging target.
3. The control device according to claim 2, wherein the setting unit starts the setting process before the starting time specified in accordance with the information stored in the storage unit.
4. The control device according to claim 1, wherein the setting unit performs the setting process of the system based on a setting list stored in the storage unit.
5. The control device according to claim 1, wherein the setting process performed by the setting unit includes a process of setting parameters associated with imaging performed by a plurality of cameras.
6. The control device according to claim 1, wherein the setting process performed by the setting unit includes a process of setting parameters associated with image processing performed by an apparatus which generates the virtual viewpoint image.
7. The control device according to claim 1, wherein the setting process performed by the setting unit includes a process of activating devices included in the system.
8. The control device according to claim 1, wherein the setting information which is associated with the event information and is stored in the storage unit includes information representing imaging directions of a plurality of cameras.
9. The control device according to claim 1, wherein the setting information which is associated with the event information and is stored in the storage unit includes information representing a method for generating the virtual viewpoint image based on the image data.
10. 10-11. (canceled)
12. A control method performed by a control device performing a setting process of a system which generates a virtual viewpoint image based on image data obtained by performing imaging from a plurality of directions, the control method comprising: obtaining event information including information representing a type of event which is a target of imaging from a plurality of directions; causing a storage unit to store information for associating the obtained event information with setting information of the system; and performing a setting process of the system based on the stored information.
13. 13-14. (canceled)
15. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions for causing a computer to execute a control method performed by a control device performing a setting process of a system which generates a virtual viewpoint image based on image data obtained by performing imaging from a plurality of directions, the control method comprising: obtaining event information including information representing a type of event which is a target of imaging from a plurality of directions; causing a storage unit to store information for associating the obtained event information with setting information of the system; and performing a setting process of the system based on the stored information.
16. The control device according to claim 1, wherein the setting information which is associated with the event information and is stored in the storage unit includes information representing parameters associated with positioning of a plurality of cameras.
17. The control device according to claim 1, wherein the setting information which is associated with the event information and is stored in the storage unit includes information representing designation available ranges of a virtual viewpoint associated with the generation of the virtual viewpoint image.
18. The control device according to claim 1, wherein the setting information which is associated with the event information and is stored in the storage unit includes information representing a method for transmitting a foreground region extracted from the captured image in the system.
19. The control device according to claim 18, wherein the information representing the method for transmitting a foreground region in the system includes at least one of information representing a compression rate of the foreground image and information representing a frame rate.
20. The control device according to claim 1, wherein the setting information which is associated with the event information and is stored in the storage unit includes information representing a method for transmitting a background region extracted from the captured image in the system.
21. The control device according to claim 20, wherein the information representing the method for transmitting a background region in the system includes at least one of information representing a compression rate of the background image and information representing a frame rate.
22. The control device according to claim 1, wherein the setting information which is associated with the event information and is stored in the storage unit includes information representing a gazing point.
23. The control device according to claim 22, wherein the information representing a gazing point includes at least one of information representing the number of gazing points, information representing a position of a gazing point, and identification information of a camera corresponding to a gazing point.
24. The control device according to claim 1, wherein the storage controlling unit causes the storage unit to store event information including information representing a type of event corresponding to the number of persons which is equal to or smaller than a threshold value and information representing a method for generating the virtual viewpoint image using 3D shape data generated based on the captured image which are associated with each other.
</claims>
</document>
