<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDI TAGHI ABAD, FARDIN
FARIVAR, REZA
GOODSITT, JEREMY
PHAM, VINCENT
TAYLOR, KENNETH
TRUONG, ANH
WALTER S. AUSTIN
WATSON, MARK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70280683
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYNTHESIZING A SINGULAR ENSEMBLE MACHINE LEARNING MODEL FROM AN ENSEMBLE OF MODELS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for generating and using a singular ensemble model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for generating a singular ensemble model, comprising: a model generator configured to: obtain information from one or more databases, one or more client devices, or an input recognizer, and generate a plurality of machine learning models based on the obtained information; a model clusterer configured to: obtain the machine learning models from the model generator, and cluster models according to same or similar machine learning models; at least one processor; and at least one storage medium storing instructions that, when executed, configure the processor to perform operations comprising: obtaining, from the model clusterer, a plurality of the clustered machine learning models, obtaining a training data set consistent with the clustered models from the one or more databases, the one or more client devices, or the input recognizer, applying the plurality of clustered machine learning models to the training data set to obtain outputs associated with the models, mapping the outputs to features of the models, combining the mapped features of the models into a singular machine learning model, training the singular machine learning model using the training data set, and outputting the trained singular machine learning model.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of machine learning models includes at least one neural network.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of machine learning models includes at least one linear regression.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: determining whether the plurality of machine learning models comprise the same type of model; when the models are determined to comprise the same type of model, selecting a type for the singular machine learning model matching the same type as the models; and when the models are determined to comprise different types of models, selecting a neural network type for the singular machine learning model.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the singular machine learning model comprises a neural network that overfits the plurality of clustered machine learning models.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the singular machine learning model comprises a plurality of layers, wherein the plurality of layers is at least as many layers as comprise a model in the plurality of models that has a largest number of layers.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein each layer of the singular machine learning model comprises a plurality of nodes, wherein the plurality of nodes is at least as many nodes as comprise a corresponding layer of a model in the plurality of models that has a largest number of nodes.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein mapping the outputs to features of the models comprises applying one or more weights to the outputs during mapping.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more weights are equal to each other.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more weights comprise inputs from a user.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein outputting the trained singular machine learning model comprises at least one of storing the trained singular machine learning model in the at least one storage medium or transmitting the trained singular machine learning model to a user device.
12. A system for generating a singular ensemble model, comprising: a model generator configured to: obtain information from one or more databases, one or more client devices, or an input recognizer, and generate a plurality of machine learning models based on the obtained information and consistent with a requested prediction included in the received information, wherein the requested prediction predicts input of a user based on features extracted from partial inputs; a model clusterer configured to: obtain the machine learning models from the model generator, and cluster models according to same or similar machine learning models; at least one processor; and at least one storage medium storing instructions that, when executed, configure the processor to perform operations comprising: obtaining, from the model clusterer, a plurality of the clustered machine learning models, obtaining a plurality of training data sets consistent with the plurality of clustered models from the one or more databases, the one or more client devices, or the input recognizer, each set corresponding to one of the machine learning models, applying the plurality of clustered machine learning models to the corresponding training data sets to obtain output sets associated with the models, each output set corresponding to one of the machine learning models, combining the output sets to form a final output set, mapping the final output set to features of the models, combining the mapped features of the models into a singular machine learning model, training the singular machine learning model using the corresponding training data sets, and outputting the trained singular machine learning model.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein combining the output sets to form a final output set comprises applying one or more weights to the outputs during mapping.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more weights are equal to each other.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more weights comprise inputs from a user.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the mapped features of the models comprise feature vectors extracted from the training data sets.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise training the singular machine learning model using at least one new training data set.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein training the singular machine learning model comprises recursive adjustments of one or more parameters of the singular machine learning model.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the recursive adjustments are configured to reduce at least one of root-mean-square deviation (RMSD), Akaike information criterion (AIC), or logarithmic loss (LOGLOSS).
20. A system for generating a singular ensemble model, comprising: a model generator configured to: obtain information from one or more databases, one or more client devices, or an input recognizer, and generate a plurality of machine learning models based on the obtained information; a model clusterer configured to: obtain the machine learning models from the model generator, and cluster models according to same or similar machine learning models; at least one processor; and at least one storage medium storing instructions that, when executed, configure the processor to perform operations comprising: obtaining, from the model clusterer, a plurality of the clustered machine learning models, obtaining a training data set consistent with the plurality of clustered models from the one or more databases, the one or more client devices, or the input recognizer, applying the plurality of clustered machine learning models to the training data set to obtain outputs associated with the models, mapping the outputs to features of the models, combining the mapped features of the models into a singular machine learning model, applying the singular machine learning model to the training data set to obtain output, comparing the outputs to the output of the singular machine learning model, adjusting one or more parameters of the singular machine learning model based on the comparison, determining whether the comparing and the adjusting comply with a one or more threshold, wherein the one or more threshold comprise direct thresholds or thresholds relative to last iteration, and outputting the trained singular machine learning model.
</claims>
</document>
