<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61N1/36,A61N1/372
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDTRONIC XOMED
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHULHAUSER, RANDAL
TESFAYESUS, WONDIMENEH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70058522
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA PATIENT PROGRAMMER FOR IMPLANTABLE DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
An implantable neurostimulator system including an electrical lead having formed thereon a pair of bipolar electrodes, the electrical lead is configured for placement of the pair of bipolar electrodes proximate protrusor muscles of a patient. The system also includes a pulse generator electrically connected to the electrical lead and configured to deliver electrical energy to the pair of bipolar electrodes, the pulse generator having mounted therein a sensor configured to detect one or more physiological parameters, a memory, a control circuit, and a telemetry circuit. The system also including a communications telemetry module (CTM) in communication with the telemetry circuit and configured to receive a data collected by the sensor and data related to delivery of electrical energy to the bipolar electrodes, and an external programmer in communication with the CTM and configured to display a user interface the data collected by the sensor and data related to delivery of electrical energy to the bipolar electrodes.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. An implantable neurostimulator (INS) system comprising: an electrical lead having formed thereon a pair of bipolar electrodes, wherein the electrical lead is configured for placement of the pair of bipolar electrodes proximate protrusor muscles of a patient; a pulse generator electrically connected to the electrical lead and configured to deliver electrical energy to the pair of bipolar electrodes, the pulse generator having mounted therein a sensor configured to detect one or more physiological parameters, a memory, a control circuit, and a telemetry circuit; a communications telemetry module (CTM) in communication with the telemetry circuit and configured to receive a data collected by the sensor and data related to delivery of electrical energy to the bipolar electrodes; and an external programmer in communication with the CTM and configured to display a user interface the data collected by the sensor and data related to delivery of electrical energy to the bipolar electrodes.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the user interface displayable on the external programmer is configured to receive an input from a user to initiate therapy delivery.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the user interface displayable on the external programmer is configured to display an amount of therapy delivered by the electrodes.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising an artificial intelligence (AI) engine configured to analyze the data collected by the sensor and data related to delivery of electrical energy to the bipolar electrodes.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the AI is configured to analyze the data collected by the sensor and data related to delivery of electrical energy to the bipolar electrodes and adjust a therapy delivery program stored in the memory for the delivery of the electrical energy to the bipolar electrodes.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the AI is configured to analyze electromyograph (EMG) data collected by the sensor to determine a tonal state of the protrusor muscles of the patient.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein based on the determination of the tonal state of the protrusor muscles, the AI communicates with the control circuit to initiate delivery of electrical energy to the bipolar electrodes.
8. The system of claim 4, wherein the sensor data includes one or more of motion data, heart rate data, electrocardiogram data, respiration rate data, electromyograph data, blood-oxygen saturation data or posture data.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the AI is configured to calculate one or more of an Apnea-Hypopnea Index (AHI) value, a Respiration Disturbance Index (RDI) value, total sleep time, sleep efficiency value, power consumption value, therapeutic efficiency.
10. The system of claim 1, further comprising one or more external sensors in communication with the CTM.
11. The system of claim 1, further comprising a server in communication with the external programmer or an external sensor, and configured to receive the data collected by the sensor, data related to delivery of electrical energy to the bipolar electrodes, and data collected by the external sensor.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the data collected by the sensor, data related to delivery of electrical energy to the bipolar electrodes, and data collected by the external sensor are stored in an electronic medical record (EMR) for the patient.
13. The system of claim 12, further comprising an AI with access to the EMR and configured to analyze the data contained therein to update a therapy delivery program for delivery of delivery of electrical energy to the bipolar electrodes.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the sensor data stored in the EMR includes one or more of motion data, heart rate data, electrocardiogram data, respiration rate data, electromyograph data, blood-oxygen saturation data or posture data.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the AI is configured to calculate one or more of an Apnea-Hypopnea Index (AHI) value, a Respiration Disturbance Index (RDI) value, total sleep time, sleep efficiency value, power consumption value, therapeutic efficiency.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the server is configured to communicate the updated therapy delivery program to the external programmer, the external programmer configured to communicate the updated therapy delivery program to the memory of the pulse generator.
17. The system of claim 13, further comprising a remote computer in communication with the server, wherein the remote computer include a user interface displaying the data collected by the sensor, data related to delivery of electrical energy to the bipolar electrodes, and data collected by the external sensor.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the remote computer is configured to receive and permit review of an updated therapy delivery program.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein the AI has access to EMR data of a larger population of patients.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the AI is configured to analyze the EMR data of the larger population and identify one or more parameters for adjustment in a therapy delivery program for the delivery of electrical energy to the pair of bipolar electrodes, therapy delivery program being stored in the memory in the pulse generator.
</claims>
</document>
