<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W36/00,H04W36/06,H04W4/029,H04W8/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
UY WARREN HOJILLA
ANDRADA, MAURICIO PATI CALDEIRA DE
CACERES, MANUEL ENRIQUE
KHAN, TAUSSIF
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102856
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD OF HANDOVER MANAGEMENT FOR PREDETERMINED MOBILITY
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and computer-readable media described herein provide for obtaining, mobility information associated with an end device, wherein the mobility information includes a starting location and a destination location; identifying multiple mobility routes from the starting location to the destination location; identifying a set of wireless resources accessible along each of the mobility routes; selecting, from the multiple mobility routes, a predetermined mobility route based on the sets of wireless resources; selecting, from the sets of wireless resources, wireless resources handover targets in the predetermined mobility route; generating mobility control information including the set of wireless station handover targets; and transmitting a mobility control message including the mobility control information to the end device and at least one of wireless resources handover targets.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining, by a network device, mobility information associated with an end device, wherein the mobility information includes a starting location and a destination location; identifying, by the network device, multiple mobility routes from the starting location to the destination location; identifying, by the network device, a set of wireless resources along each of the mobility routes; selecting, by the network device and from the multiple mobility routes, a predetermined mobility route based on the sets of wireless resources; selecting, by the network device from the sets of wireless resources, wireless resources handover targets in the predetermined mobility route; generating, by the network device, mobility control information including the wireless resources handover targets; and transmitting, by the network device, a mobility control message including the mobility control information to the end device and at least one of the wireless resources handover targets.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the mobility control information includes a timeframe for performing a handover between the end device and each of the wireless resources handover targets.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: obtaining position information associated with the end device along the predetermined mobility route; and transmitting, based on the position information, updates of the timeframes to one or more of the wireless resources handover targets.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the wireless resources are associated with cells and a multi-access edge computing (MEC) site.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the mobility control message includes service requirements corresponding to a type of service requested by the end device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the mobility control message includes security context for the wireless resources handover targets.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the security context includes at least one of a type of traffic, a type of application pertaining to the traffic, a type of the end device, or a type of access mode used by the end device for establishment of a radio connection.
8. A network device comprising: a communication interface; a memory, wherein the memory stores instructions; and a processor, wherein the processor executes the instructions to: obtain mobility information associated with an end device, wherein the mobility information includes a starting location and a destination location; identify multiple mobility routes from the starting location to the destination location; identify a set of wireless resources accessible along each of the mobility routes; select, from the multiple mobility routes, a predetermined mobility route based on the sets of wireless resources; select, from the sets of wireless resources, wireless resources handover targets in the predetermined mobility route; generate mobility control information including the wireless resources handover targets; and transmit a mobility control message including the mobility control information to the end device and at least one of the wireless resources handover targets.
9. The network device of claim 8, wherein the mobility control information includes a timeframe for performing a handover between the end device and each of the wireless resources handover targets.
10. The network device of claim 9, wherein the processor further executes the instructions to: obtain position information associated with the end device along the predetermined mobility route; and transmit, based on the position information, updates of the timeframes to one or more of the wireless resources handover targets.
11. The network device of claim 8, wherein the wireless resources are associated with cells and a multi-access edge computing (MEC) site.
12. The network device of claim 8, wherein the mobility control message identifies includes service requirements corresponding to a type of service requested by the end device.
13. The network device of claim 8, wherein the mobility control message includes security context for the wireless resources handover targets.
14. The network device of claim 13, wherein the security context includes at least one of a type of traffic, a type of application pertaining to the traffic, a type of the end device, or a type of access mode used by the end device for establishment of a radio connection.
15. A non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium storing instructions executable by a processor of a computational device, which when executed cause the computational device to: obtain mobility information associated with an end device, wherein the mobility information includes a starting location and a destination location; identify multiple mobility routes from the starting location to the destination location; identify a set of wireless resources accessible along each of the mobility routes; select, from the multiple mobility routes, a predetermined mobility route based on the sets of wireless resources; select, from the sets of wireless resources, wireless resources handover targets in the predetermined mobility route; generate, mobility control information including the wireless resources handover targets; and transmit, a mobility control message including the mobility control information to the end device and at least one of the wireless resources handover targets.
16. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the mobility control information includes a timeframe for performing a handover between the end device and each of the wireless resources handover targets.
17. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, further storing instructions executable by the processor of the computational device, which when executed cause the computational device to: obtain position information associated with the end device along the predetermined mobility route; and transmit, based on the position information, updates of the timeframes to one or more of the wireless resources handover targets.
18. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the wireless resources are associated with cells and a multi-access edge computing (MEC) site.
19. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the mobility control message identifies includes service requirements corresponding to a type of service requested by the end device.
20. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the mobility control message includes at least one of a type of traffic, a type of application pertaining to the traffic, a type of the end device, or a type of access mode used by the end device for establishment of a radio connection.
</claims>
</document>
