<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L12/801,H04L12/841,H04L29/12,H04W8/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VMWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHANDRASEKARAN, BALACHANDER
SRINIVAS, ANAND
ZAFER, MURTAZA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60039576
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR USING REAL-TIME PACKET DATA TO DETECT AND MANAGE NETWORK ISSUES
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method is disclosed of extracting information from real-time network packet data to analyze connectivity data for client devices in a network. The method includes: detecting when client devices initiate a connectivity event; after detecting a connectivity event, waiting a period of time for the client device to either reach or fail to reach a network connected state; after waiting a period of time, recording connectivity event information; and sending the recorded connectivity event information to an analytics system for network incident and/or network congestion analysis.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-25. (canceled)
26. A method for analyzing and remediating network incidents, the method comprising: executing performance calculations on collected network data to compute performance metrics; detecting a network incident from the performance calculations on the network data by correlating a sequence of performance metrics with other composite metrics that define relevant symptoms; identifying a root cause of the detected network incident; and identifying, and providing for display, remediation of the identified root cause of the detected network incident.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein identifying the root cause comprises aggregating correlations of symptoms across a plurality of network incidents over a duration of time, and mapping a set of symptom correlations to root causes.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the detected incident comprises a network infrastructure incident relating to one or more network infrastructure elements, and the plurality of network incidents comprise a plurality of network infrastructure incidents relating to a plurality of sets of network infrastructure elements.
29. The method of claim 27, wherein the detected incident comprises a client network incident relating to a particular client, and the plurality of network incidents comprise a plurality of client network incidents relating to a plurality of clients.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein each client in a set of clients is a company, and detecting the network incident comprising performing cross-company comparison of network incidents among similar companies.
31. The method of claim 30, further comprising identifying a similar plurality of companies to place in the set of companies based on a plurality of network factors including at least three of a number of wired/wireless clients, a number of access points, types of devices, types of network elements, a density of network deployment, a topology of network deployment, and geographical locations.
32. The method of claim 26, wherein detecting the network incident comprising at least one of detecting a proportion of performance metric values crossing a threshold, detecting a presence of a sequence of metric values, detecting a time-ordered stretch of metric values with a length of the time-ordered stretch exceeding a defined threshold, and detecting a cyclical presence of a sequence of metric values.
33. The method of claim 26, wherein detecting the network incident comprises identifying deviations in historical time-series data computed based on network incidents over a duration of time.
34. The method of claim 33 further comprising identifying changes in the computed historical time-series data and identifying factors contributing to these changes, wherein the identifying factors comprise at least two of configuration changes, topology changes, changes and upgrades of the network elements in the network.
35. The method of claim 26, wherein identifying remediation comprises assigning a priority to the detected network incident, wherein the priority is determined based on at least two of a percentage of affected entities, relative deviation from the historical baseline, presence of important entities within the affected entities.
36. A non-transitory machine readable medium storing a program which when executed by at least one processing unit analyzes and remediates network incidents, the program comprising sets of instructions for: executing performance calculations on collected network data to compute performance metrics; detecting a network incident from the performance calculations on the network data by correlating a sequence of performance metrics with other composite metrics that define relevant symptoms; identifying a root cause of the detected network incident; and identifying, and providing for display, remediation of the identified root cause of the detected network incident.
37. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 36, wherein the set of instructions for identifying the root cause comprises sets of instructions for aggregating correlations of symptoms across a plurality of network incidents over a duration of time, and mapping a set of symptom correlations to root causes.
38. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 37, wherein the detected incident comprises a network infrastructure incident relating to one or more network infrastructure elements, and the plurality of network incidents comprise a plurality of network infrastructure incidents relating to a plurality of sets of network infrastructure elements.
39. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 37, wherein the detected incident comprises a client network incident relating to a particular client, and the plurality of network incidents comprise a plurality of client network incidents relating to a plurality of clients.
40. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 39, wherein each client in a set of clients is a company, and the set of instructions for detecting the network incident comprises a set of instructions for performing cross-company comparison of network incidents among similar companies.
41. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 40, wherein the set of instructions for detecting the network incident further comprises a set of instructions for identifying a similar plurality of companies to place in the set of companies based on a plurality of network factors including at least three of a number of wired/wireless clients, a number of access points, types of devices, types of network elements, a density of network deployment, a topology of network deployment, and geographical locations.
42. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 36, wherein the set of instructions for detecting the network incident comprises sets of instructions for at least one of detecting a proportion of performance metric values crossing a threshold, detecting a presence of a sequence of metric values, detecting a time-ordered stretch of metric values with a length of the time-ordered stretch exceeding a defined threshold, and detecting a cyclical presence of a sequence of metric values.
43. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 36, wherein the set of instructions for detecting the network incident comprises a set of instructions for identifying deviations in historical time-series data computed based on network incidents over a duration of time.
44. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 43, wherein the set of instructions for detecting the network incident further comprises sets of instructions for identifying changes in the computed historical time-series data and identifying factors contributing to these changes, wherein the set of instructions for identifying factors comprises at least two of configuration changes, topology changes, changes and upgrades of the network elements in the network.
45. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 36, wherein the set of instructions for identifying remediation comprises a set of instructions for assigning a priority to the detected network incident, wherein the priority is determined based on at least two of a percentage of affected entities, relative deviation from the historical baseline, presence of important entities within the affected entities.
</claims>
</document>
