<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2006-08-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60L53/00,B60L53/63,B60L53/64,B60L55/00,G05B13/02,G06Q30/02,G06Q50/06,H02J13/00,H02J3/00,H02J3/38,H02J7/00,H02J7/04,H02J7/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
V2GREEN
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRIDGES, SETH, W.
KAPLAN, DAVID, L.
POLLACK, SETH, B.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
40568094
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
POWER AGGREGATION SYSTEM FOR DISTRIBUTED ELECTRIC RESOURCES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are described for a power aggregation system. In one implementation, a method includes establishing a communication connection with each of multiple electric resources connected to a power grid, receiving an energy generation signal from a power grid operator, and controlling a number of the electric resources being charged by the power grid as a function of the energy generation signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A power aggregation system, comprising: a flow controller, operable to communicate with one or more electric vehicles intermittently connected to a power grid, each vehicle having its own vehicle constraints, the flow controller comprising: a connection manager, operable to communicate with the one or more electric vehicles; a database, operable to store historical data for the one or more electric vehicles, including historical time of connection to the power grid, historical duration of connection to the power grid, historical location of connection to the power grid, and historical state of charge, wherein the historical vehicle data is updated in the database when the one or more electric vehicles connects to the power grid; a prediction engine, operable to make predictions about the behavior of the one or more electric vehicles using, at least in part, the historical data, wherein the predictions include when the one or more electric vehicles will connect to the power grid, the duration of the connection, the location of the connection, and the state of charge at connect time; a grid interaction manager operable to receive signals from a power grid operator, associated with the power grid, requesting service to the power grid by the one or more electric vehicles; and a constraint optimizer, operable to determine the availability of the one or more electric vehicles to participate in the requested service to the power grid based on constraints of the one or more electric vehicles, the constraints including when the one or more electric vehicles will connect to the power grid, the duration of the connection, the location of the connection, and the state of charge at connect time, the constraint optimizer further operable to send control signals, via the connection manager, to the one or more electric vehicles when the constraints of the one or more electric vehicles are satisfied, wherein the control signals provide information indicating to the electric vehicle when to cause power to flow from the electric vehicle to the power grid or when to cause power to flow from the power grid to the electric vehicle.
2. The power aggregation system of claim 1, wherein the flow controller further comprises: a contract manager, operable to communicate with the energy markets and the grid operator to determine the availability, pricing levels and available services for the one or more electric vehicles, wherein the pricing levels and services are constrains of the one or more electric vehicles, and wherein the constrain optimizer is operable to determine the availability of the one or more electric vehicles to provide the requested service to the power grid based on the pricing levels and available services.
3. The power aggregation system of claim 2, wherein the constraints include the price sensitivity of the owner of the one or more electrical vehicles, and wherein the constraint optimizer uses the price of energy to determine whether owner accepts participation in the requested service based on the price sensitivity of the owner and the price of energy.
4. The power aggregation system of claim 1, wherein the prediction engine is operable to predict the behavior of the power grid.
5. The power aggregation system of claim 1, further comprising: a charging component communicatively coupled to the flow controller, the charging component receiving signals from the flow controller to control the charging or discharging of the one or more electric vehicles connected to the charging component, wherein the charging component is further operable to send information indicating connection time, connection duration, and state of charge to the flow controller when the one or more electric vehicles are connected to the charging component.
6. The power aggregation system of claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of the flow controllers, each flow controller associated with a control area and a power grid operator associated with the control area; and a directory server, operable to communicate with and inform the one or more electric vehicles which flow controller to communicate with.
7. The power aggregation system of claim 6, wherein the directory server is integrated with one of the plurality of flow controllers, and wherein the directory server is operable to interact with the one or more electric vehicles or forward communication of the one or more electric vehicles to another flow controller based on the location of the one or more electric vehicles.
8. The power aggregation system of claim 6, where in the directory server includes a publically accessible database that maps control areas to one or more of the plurality of flow control centers and is used to signal the one or more electric vehicles which flow control server to communicate with.
9. The power aggregation system of claim 1, wherein the grid interaction manager is operable to send a signal to the power grid operator that the one or more electric vehicle are available to service the power grid associated with the power grid operator within the constraints of the one or more electric vehicles.
10. The power aggregation system of claim 1, wherein the grid interaction manager is operable to send a signal to the power grid operator indicating availability of the one or more electric vehicle at various points of time in the future.
11. The power aggregation system of claim 1, wherein the constraints of the one or more electric vehicles include one or more of: price sensitivity of the owner; owner sensitivity to revenue relative to state of charge; manual charging overrides; and owner preferences.
12. The power aggregation system of claim 1, wherein the connection manager notifies the owner of the one or more electric vehicles if the electric vehicle associated with the owner remains disconnected for a predetermined amount of time.
13. The power aggregation system of claim 1, wherein the prediction engine is operable to build at least one parameterized model used to predict the behavior of the one or more electric vehicles.
14. The power aggregation system of claim 1, wherein the prediction engine is operable to build a plurality of parameterized models used to predict the behavior of associated sets of a plurality of the one or more electric vehicles.
15. The power aggregation system of claim 1, wherein the prediction engine is operable to build a separate parameterized model corresponding to each of the one or more electric vehicles, wherein each separate parameterized model predicts the behavior of the corresponding one electric vehicle.
16. The power aggregation system of claim 15, wherein the charging component charges the one or more electric vehicles according to a standard charging mode when there is no communication with the flow controller.
17. The power aggregation system of claim 16, wherein the standard charging mode includes preprogrammed instructions.
18. The power aggregation system of claim 17, wherein the standard charging mode includes instructions to charge the one or more electric vehicle when the time of use rates are low.
19. The power aggregation system of claim 16, wherein the standard charging mode includes learned behavior of the one or more electric vehicles.
20. The power aggregation system of claim 16, wherein transaction information of an instance where an electric vehicle is connected to a charging component is cached and transmitted to the flow controller when communication is reestablished.
21. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
