<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61H1/02,A61H3/00,A63B22/02,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G09B19/00,G16H20/70,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOYOTA MOTOR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAKASHIMA ISSEI
OTSUKI, NOBUHISA
YAMAMOTO, MANABU
KOBAYASHI, Makoto
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73887478
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LEARNING SYSTEM, REHABILITATION SUPPORT SYSTEM, METHOD, PROGRAM, AND TRAINED MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
A learning unit of a learning system generates a learning model, the learning model being configured to input rehabilitation data about rehabilitation and predict feedback control to be performed, the rehabilitation being performed by a trainee using a rehabilitation support system. The rehabilitation support system performs the feedback control based on motivation information of the trainee. The rehabilitation data includes at least training data including the motivation information of the trainee and feedback information indicating the feedback control. The learning unit generates the learning model by using, as teacher data, the rehabilitation data that is obtained when the motivation information is one that causes such a change that the motivation of the trainee is improved.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A learning system comprising a learning unit configured to generate a learning model, the learning model being configured to input rehabilitation data about rehabilitation and predict feedback control to be performed, the rehabilitation being performed by a trainee using a rehabilitation support system, the rehabilitation support system being configured to perform the feedback control based on motivation information indicating a motivation of the trainee, wherein the rehabilitation data includes at least training data including the motivation information of the trainee and feedback information indicating the feedback control, and the learning unit generates the learning model by using, as teacher data, the rehabilitation data that is obtained when the motivation information is one that causes such a change that the motivation of the trainee is improved.
2. The learning system according to claim 1, wherein the feedback information includes a setting parameter in the rehabilitation support system when the trainee performs the rehabilitation.
3. The learning system according to claim 1, wherein the feedback information includes a content of a notification that is provided in the rehabilitation support system when the trainee performs the rehabilitation.
4. The learning system according to claim 1, wherein the motivation information includes at least line-of-sight information of the trainee.
5. The learning system according to claim 1, wherein the rehabilitation data includes data indicating a preference of the trainee input to the rehabilitation support system.
6. The learning system according to claim 1, wherein the training data includes data acquired during the rehabilitation by the rehabilitation support system.
7. The learning system according to claim 1, wherein the rehabilitation data includes trainee data indicating a feature of the trainee.
8. The learning system according to claim 1, wherein the learning system further comprises an extraction unit configured to extract, from rehabilitation data of a plurality of trainees, rehabilitation data of a trainee whose state indicated by index data at an early stage of the training is at a predetermined level, wherein the learning unit generates the learning model for the trainee having the predetermined level by using the rehabilitation data extracted by the extraction unit as an input.
9. The learning system according to claim 8, wherein the extraction unit extracts rehabilitation data of a trainee of which a combination of the index data at the early stage of the training and the index data at the time when the index data is at the predetermined level is a predetermined combination.
10. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a trained model, the trained model being a learning model that has been trained by the learning system according to claim 1.
11. A rehabilitation support system capable of accessing a trained model, the trained model being a learning model trained by the learning system according to claim 1, the rehabilitation support system comprising: a prediction acquisition unit configured to input the rehabilitation data of a trainee who starts or is performing training to the trained model and obtains a result of a prediction of the feedback control to be performed; and a feedback unit configured to perform the feedback control obtained by the prediction acquisition unit.
12. A learning method comprising a learning step of generating a learning model, the learning model being configured to input rehabilitation data about rehabilitation and predict feedback control to be performed, the rehabilitation being performed by a trainee using a rehabilitation support system, the rehabilitation support system being configured to perform the feedback control based on motivation information indicating a motivation of the trainee, wherein the rehabilitation data includes at least training data including the motivation information of the trainee and feedback information indicating the feedback control, and in the learning step, the learning model is generated by using, as teacher data, the rehabilitation data that is obtained when the motivation information is one that causes such a change that the motivation of the trainee is improved.
13. A method for supporting rehabilitation performed in a rehabilitation support system, the rehabilitation support system being capable of accessing a trained model, the trained model being a learning model trained by the learning method according to claim 12, the method including: an acquisition step of inputting the rehabilitation data of a trainee who starts or is performing training to the trained model and obtaining a result of a prediction of the feedback control to be performed; and a feedback step of performing the feedback control obtained in the acquisition step.
14. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a trained model, the trained model being a learning model that has been trained by the learning method according to claim 12.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a program for causing a computer to perform a learning step of generating a learning model, the learning model being configured to input rehabilitation data about rehabilitation and predict feedback control to be performed, the rehabilitation being performed by a trainee using a rehabilitation support system, the rehabilitation support system being configured to perform the feedback control based on motivation information indicating a motivation of the trainee, wherein the rehabilitation data includes at least training data including the motivation information of the trainee and feedback information indicating the feedback control, and in the learning step, the learning model is generated by using, as teacher data, the rehabilitation data that is obtained when the motivation information is one that causes such a change that the motivation of the trainee is improved.
16. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a rehabilitation support program for a computer of a rehabilitation support system, the rehabilitation support system being capable of accessing a trained model, the trained model being a learning model trained by the program stored in the non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 15, the rehabilitation support program being configured to cause the computer to perform: an acquisition step of inputting the rehabilitation data of a trainee who starts or is performing training to the trained model and obtaining a result of a prediction of the feedback control to be performed; and a feedback step of performing the feedback control obtained in the acquisition step.
17. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a trained model, the trained model being a learning model that has been trained by the program stored in the non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 15.
</claims>
</document>
