<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B65G1/137
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LINEAGE LOGISTICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ECKMAN, CHRISTOPHER FRANK
Baijens, Frank
Walet, Daniel
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72663005
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTROLLING AUTOMATED PALLET MOVERS
</title>

<abstract>
An automated warehouse system can include automated pallet movers, a physical space in which the automated pallet movers operate, and a control system to provide commands to each of the automated pallet movers for operating in the physical space. The commands can include a pallet transportation command including a pallet identifier of a pallet to be transported by the automated pallet mover in the physical space, and a destination location to which the pallet is to be transported by the automated pallet mover. The commands can also include a control algorithm command that specifies a control algorithm for moving through the physical space. The automated pallet mover can be configured to transport the pallet to the destination location according to a route resulting from performance of the control algorithm, while other automated pallet movers concurrently transport other pallets to other destination locations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An automated warehouse system, the system comprising: a plurality of automated pallet movers; a physical space in which the plurality of automated pallet movers are configured to operate; and a control system configured to provide commands to each of the plurality of automated pallet movers for operating in the physical space, the commands comprising, for an automated pallet mover: a pallet transportation command comprising: (i) a pallet identifier of a pallet to be transported by the automated pallet mover in the physical space, and (ii) a destination location to which the pallet is to be transported by the automated pallet mover; and a control algorithm command that specifies a control algorithm for moving through the physical space, wherein the automated pallet mover is configured to transport the pallet to the destination location according to a route resulting from performance of the control algorithm, while one or more of the other automated pallet movers concurrently transport other pallets to other destination locations according to other routes resulting from performance of the same control algorithm.
2. The automated warehouse system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the automated pallet movers is an automated guided vehicle.
3. The automated warehouse system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the automated pallet movers includes a forklift device.
4. The automated warehouse system of claim 1, wherein the pallet identifier is associated with a location of the pallet in the physical space.
5. The automated warehouse system of claim 1, wherein: after providing, to each of the automated pallet movers, the control algorithm command that specifies the control algorithm for moving through the physical space, the control system provides, to each of the automated pallet movers, a second, different control algorithm command that specifies a second, different control algorithm for moving through the physical space.
6. The automated warehouse system of claim 1, the control system being further configured to: (i) for each of a plurality of different control algorithms, perform one or more simulations of transporting pallets in the physical space by the plurality of automated pallet movers using the control algorithm, (ii) compare pallet throughput resulting from simulated use of each control algorithm, and (iii) select an optimal control algorithm, the optimal control algorithm corresponding to greatest pallet throughput; wherein the control algorithm command specifies the optimal control algorithm.
7. The automated warehouse system of claim 1, wherein the route travelled by the pallet mover resulting from performance of the control algorithm is determined in real time, in response to locations and movements of the other pallet movers in the physical space.
8. The automated warehouse system of claim 1, wherein the physical space includes a plurality of pallet handling locations, each pallet handling location being a location from which pallets are retrieved and/or to which pallets are transported.
9. The automated warehouse system of claim 8, wherein at least one pallet handling location is at the end of a conveyor belt in the physical space.
10. The automated warehouse system of claim 8, wherein at least one pallet handling location is a designated area on a floor of the physical space.
11. The automated warehouse system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of pallet handling locations are arranged such that a first row of pallet handling locations are located along a first edge of the physical space, and a second row of pallet handling locations are located along a second edge of the physical space different from the first edge.
12. The automated warehouse system of claim 11, wherein the physical space includes a plurality of lanes between the first and second rows of pallet handling locations, the lanes being configured for use by the automated pallet movers to transport pallets between pallet handling locations according to routes resulting from performance of the control algorithm.
13. The automated warehouse system of claim 12, wherein the lanes include virtual lanes.
14. The automated warehouse system of claim 12, wherein the lanes include marked lanes.
15. The automated warehouse system of claim 12, wherein the control algorithm and a different control algorithm are each associated with a different plurality of lanes.
16. The automated warehouse system of claim 12, wherein the plurality of lanes comprises: (i) a looping slow lane located along the first row of pallet handling locations and the second row of pallet handling locations, (ii) a looping fast lane that loops in a same direction as the looping slow lane and is located inside of the looping slow lane, and (iii) a turning lane that is located inside of the looping fast lane.
17. The automated warehouse system of claim 12, wherein the plurality of lanes comprises: (i) a looping slow lane located along the first row of pallet handling locations and the second row of pallet handling locations, (ii) a looping fast lane that loops in a same direction as the looping slow lane and is located inside of the looping slow lane, and (iii) a plurality of buffer lanes that are located inside of the looping fast lane.
18. The automated warehouse system of claim 12, wherein the plurality of lanes comprises: (i) a first looping lane that loops in a clockwise direction along a portion of the first row of pallet handling locations and a portion of the second row of pallet handling locations, and (ii) a second looping lane that loops in a counterclockwise direction along a different portion of the first row of pallet handling locations and a different portion of the second row of pallet handling locations.
19. The automated warehouse system of claim 12, wherein the plurality of lanes comprises: (i) an exterior looping lane that loops along the first row of pallet handling locations and the second row of pallet handling locations, and (ii) a plurality of interior looping lanes that loop in a same direction as the exterior looping lane, each interior looping lane looping within the exterior looping lane.
</claims>
</document>
