<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/00,G05D1/00,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G08G1/04,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Perceptive Automata Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANTHONY, SAMUEL ENGLISH
FALLER, AVERY WAGNER
MISRA, KSHITIJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64903265
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD OF PREDICTING HUMAN INTERACTION WITH VEHICLES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for predicting user interaction with vehicles. A computing device receives an image and a video segment of a road scene, the first at least one of an image and a video segment being taken from a perspective of a participant in the road scene and then generates stimulus data based on the image and the video segment. Stimulus data is transmitted to a user interface and response data is received, which includes at least one of an action and a likelihood of the action corresponding to another participant in the road scene. The computing device aggregates a subset of the plurality of response data to form statistical data and a model is created based on the statistical data. The model is applied to another image or video segment and a prediction of user behavior in the another image or video segment is generated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. (canceled)
2. A computer-implemented method for controlling an autonomous vehicle based on predicted state of mind of users in a scene captured by a camera of the autonomous vehicle, the method comprising: receiving a plurality of images displaying road scenes captured by one or more vehicles; receiving a plurality of user responses, each user response describing a state of mind of a road user displayed in one or more images; generating training dataset comprising summary statistics of uses responses describing the state of minds of road users displayed in the plurality of images; training, using the training dataset, a supervised learning based model configured to predict summary statistics describing a state of mind of a road user displayed in an input image; receiving, by an autonomous vehicle, a new image captured by a camera of the autonomous vehicle, the new image of a scene including a road user; predicting, by the autonomous vehicle, using the supervised learning based model, summary statistics describing a state of mind of the road user in the new image; controlling the autonomous vehicle based on the prediction of the supervised learning based model.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the road user in the input image is a pedestrian and the state of mind predicted by the supervised learning based model indicates whether the pedestrian is likely to perform an action, the action including one of: staying in place, or crossing a street.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the road user in the input image is a cyclist and the state of mind predicted by the supervised learning based model indicates whether the cyclist is likely to cross a lane.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the statistical summary comprises one ore more of: a central tendency, a variance, a skew, a kurtosis, a scale, or a histogram.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein receiving a user response comprises: sending one or more images for display to a viewer via a user interface, the one or more images including a road user, wherein the user interface is configured to prompt the viewer to describe how the road user will act.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein receiving a user response comprises: generating a stimulus comprising a set of images; sending the generated stimulus for display via a user interface; and receiving, via the user interface, a user response describing the stimulus.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, further comprising: modifying an image to generate a stimulus, the modifying comprising extracting a subset of the image contained in a bounding box around the road user displayed in the image.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the supervised learning based model uses one or more features comprising: dimensions of the bounding box; location of the bounding box; shape of the bounding box; or a change in size or position of the bounding box across two images representing video frames.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the user response is determined based on: an explicit response to a question asked via the user interface; and an implicit data representing one or more of: time taken to respond; whether user deleted keystrokes; or whether user moved the mouse anywhere other than the location corresponding to the selected response.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the supervised learning based model is one of: a random forest regressor, a support vector regressor, a simple neural network, a deep convolutional neural network, a recurrent neural network, or a long-short-term memory (LSTM) neural network.
12. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer processor cause the computer processer to perform steps of a computer-implemented method for controlling an autonomous vehicle based on predicted state of mind of users in a scene captured by a camera of the autonomous vehicle, the steps comprising: receiving a plurality of images displaying road scenes captured by one or more vehicles; receiving a plurality of user responses, each user response describing a state of mind of a road user displayed in one or more images; generating training dataset comprising summary statistics of uses responses describing the state of minds of road users displayed in the plurality of images; training, using the training dataset, a supervised learning based model configured to predict summary statistics describing a state of mind of a road user displayed in an input image; receiving, by an autonomous vehicle, a new image captured by a camera of the autonomous vehicle, the new image of a scene including a road user; predicting, by the autonomous vehicle, using the supervised learning based model, summary statistics describing a state of mind of the road user in the new image; controlling the autonomous vehicle based on the prediction of the supervised learning based model.
13. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the road user in the input image is a pedestrian and the state of mind predicted by the supervised learning based model indicates whether the pedestrian is likely to perform an action, the action including one of: staying in place, or crossing a street.
14. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the road user in the input image is a cyclist and the state of mind predicted by the supervised learning based model indicates whether the cyclist is likely to cross a lane.
15. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the statistical summary comprises one or more of: a central tendency, a variance, a skew, a kurtosis, a scale, or a histogram.
16. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein receiving a user response comprises: sending one or more images for display to a viewer via a user interface, the one or more images including a road user, wherein the user interface is configured to prompt the viewer to describe how the road user will act.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein receiving a user response comprises: generating a stimulus comprising a set of images; sending the generated stimulus for display via a user interface; and receiving, via the user interface, a user response describing the stimulus.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 17, further comprising: modifying an image to generate a stimulus, the modifying comprising extracting a subset of the image contained in a bounding box around the road user displayed in the image.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the supervised learning based model uses one or more features comprising: dimensions of the bounding box; location of the bounding box; shape of the bounding box; or a change in size or position of the bounding box across two images representing video frames.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the user response is determined based on: an explicit response to a question asked via the user interface; and an implicit data representing one or more of: time taken to respond; whether user deleted keystrokes; or whether user moved the mouse anywhere other than the location corresponding to the selected response.
21. A computer system comprising: a computer processor; and a non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer processor cause the computer processer to perform steps of a computer-implemented method for controlling an autonomous vehicle based on predicted state of mind of users in a scene captured by a camera of the autonomous vehicle, the steps comprising: receiving a plurality of images displaying road scenes captured by one or more vehicles; receiving a plurality of user responses, each user response describing a state of mind of a road user displayed in one or more images; generating training dataset comprising summary statistics of uses responses describing the state of minds of road users displayed in the plurality of images; training, using the training dataset, a supervised learning based model configured to predict summary statistics describing a state of mind of a road user displayed in an input image; receiving, by an autonomous vehicle, a new image captured by a camera of the autonomous vehicle, the new image of a scene including a road user; predicting, by the autonomous vehicle, using the supervised learning based model, summary statistics describing a state of mind of the road user in the new image; controlling the autonomous vehicle based on the prediction of the supervised learning based model.
</claims>
</document>
