<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/93,G01S7/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DENSO INTERNATIONAL AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
LULL, JOSEPH C.
MALHAN, RAJESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71610018
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SENSOR DATA ANOMALY DETECTION SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR A VEHICLE
</title>

<abstract>
A sensor data anomaly detection system for a vehicle includes one or more processors and a memory in communication with the one or more processors that stores an anomaly detection module and an anomaly correction module. The anomaly detection module causes the one or more processors to analyze one or more signals from at least one sensor of the vehicle for at least one potential anomaly and compare correlating information from one or more external sources to the at least one potential anomaly to confirm when the potential anomaly is an actual anomaly The anomaly correction module causes the one or more processors to correct the actual anomaly in the one or more signals to generate a corrected signal when the actual anomaly is present.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A sensor data anomaly detection system for a vehicle, the system comprising: one or more processors; a memory in communication with the one or more processors and storing: an anomaly detection module including instructions when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to analyze one or more signals from at least one sensor of the vehicle for at least one potential anomaly and compare correlating information from one or more external sources to the at least one potential anomaly to confirm when the potential anomaly is an actual anomaly; and an anomaly correction module including instructions when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to correct the actual anomaly in the one or more signals to generate a corrected signal when the actual anomaly is present, wherein a vehicle control system of the vehicle generates one or more control signals based on the corrected signal.
2. The sensor data anomaly detection system of claim 1, wherein the anomaly correction module further includes instructions to perform at least one of: inform one or more vehicle systems that the actual anomaly is present; and replace the actual anomaly in the one or more signals with data from the correlation information.
3. The sensor data anomaly detection system of claim 1, wherein the memory in communication with the one or more processors stores a transmission module including instructions when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform at least one of: transmit the presence of the actual anomaly to at least one other vehicle; and transmit the presence of the actual anomaly to the one or more external sources.
4. The sensor data anomaly detection system of claim 1, wherein the one or more external sources are at least one of a second vehicle, a roadside unit, and a cloud based server.
5. The sensor data anomaly detection system of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor is at least one of a camera system, a radar system, a sonar system, and a lidar system.
6. The sensor data anomaly detection system of claim 1, wherein the one or more signals are raw sensor data.
7. The sensor data anomaly detection system of claim 1, wherein the one or more signals are time-series sensor data signals.
8. The sensor data anomaly detection system of claim 1, wherein the memory in communication with the one or more processors and stores a transmission module including instructions when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to broadcast, via a network access device, to the one or more external sources the actual anomaly, wherein the one or more external sources corrects the actual anomaly to generate a corrected signal.
9. The sensor data anomaly detection system of claim 8, wherein the anomaly correction module further includes instructions to receive via the network access device the corrected signal from one or more external sources and replace the actual anomaly in the one or more signals with the corrected signal.
10. A method for detecting an anomaly in sensor data for a vehicle, the method comprising the steps of: analyzing, by one or more processors, one or more signals from at least one sensor mounted to the vehicle for at least one potential anomaly; comparing correlating information from one or more external sources to at least one potential anomaly to confirm when the potential anomaly is an actual anomaly; and correcting, by the one or more processors, the actual anomaly in the one or more signals to generate a corrected signal when the actual anomaly is present, wherein a vehicle control system of the vehicle generates one or more control signals based on the corrected signal.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising at least one of the steps of: informing, by the one or more processors, one or more vehicle systems that the actual anomaly is present; replacing, by the one or more processors, the actual anomaly in the one or more signals with data from the correlation information; transmitting, by the one or more processors, via a network access device, the presence of the actual anomaly to at least one other vehicle; and transmitting, by the one or more processors, via the network access device, the presence of the actual anomaly to the one or more external sources.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more external sources are at least one of a second vehicle, a roadside unit, and a cloud based server.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one sensor is at least one of a camera system, a radar system, a sonar system, and a lidar system.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more signals are raw sensor data.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more signals are time-series sensor data signals.
16. The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of broadcasting, by the one or more processors, via a network access device, to the one or more external sources the actual anomaly, wherein the one or more external sources corrects the actual anomaly to generate the corrected signal.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising the steps of: receiving, by the one or more processors, via the network access device, the corrected signal from one or more external sources; and replacing, by the one or more processors, the actual anomaly in the one or more signals with the corrected signal.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium for detecting a sensor data anomaly for a vehicle and including instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to:analyze, by the one or more processors, one or more signals from at least one sensor mounted to the vehicle for at least one potential anomaly and compare correlating information from one or more external sources to at least one potential anomaly to confirm when the potential anomaly is an actual anomaly; and correct, by the one or more processors, the actual anomaly in the one or more signals to generate a corrected signal when the actual anomaly is present, wherein a vehicle control system of the vehicle generates one or more control signals based on the corrected signal.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, further including instructions that when executed by one or more processors of the vehicle cause the one or more processors to: inform, by the one or more processors, one or more vehicle systems that the actual anomaly is present; replace, by the one or more processors, the actual anomaly in the one or more signals with data from the correlation information; transmit, by the one or more processors, via a network access device, the presence of the actual anomaly to at least one other vehicle; and transmit, by the one or more processors, via the network access device, the presence of the actual anomaly to the one or more external sources.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the one or more signals are time-series sensor data signals.
</claims>
</document>
