<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06F11/34,G06Q20/40,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PAYPAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALAGUMUTHU, SHANMUGASUNDARAM
CAO, LIBAO
HUANG, MIN
PRABHAKAR, VIKAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71124210
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FLOW BASED PATTERN INTELLIGENT MONITORING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and computer program products for identifying a data pattern change anomaly uses a distributing computing environment that processes thousands of different data flows are provided. Numerous data flows are collected from the application computing environment over a configurable time period. The flows are aggregated into aggregated data according to at least one attribute from the flows and without losing information included in the flows. Historical data that includes aggregated data from multiple flows that occurred prior to a time during which the numerous data flows were collected is provided from a distributed disk storage. An anomaly that indicates change in data patterns in the flows is identified by comparing the aggregated data to the historical data using one or more models that are tailored to the numerous flows. An alert that includes an anomaly and a reason for an anomaly is transmitted and recorded in the system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining an anomaly in a distributed system, the method comprising: accessing, from a memory storage a plurality of data flows, each data flow including a plurality of attributes that were collected into a distributed computing system over a configurable time interval; aggregating the plurality of data flows according to at least one attribute in the plurality of attributes into aggregated data; accessing historical data, wherein the historical data includes aggregated data from a plurality of time intervals that occurred prior to a time during which the plurality of data flows was collected; identifying the anomaly by determining, in real-time, that the aggregated data deviates from the historical data by a predetermined threshold; and generating an alert that includes the anomaly.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing the aggregated data as part of the historical data, wherein the historical data includes the aggregated data from the configurable time interval and aggregated data from the plurality of the prior time intervals.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the historical data is stored in a data store for a second configurable time interval.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein a data flow in the plurality of data flows identifies a flow of data through the distributed system from a source to a destination and wherein the plurality of data flows includes different types of data flows.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein aggregating the plurality of data flows further comprises: identifying a plurality of instrument types in the at least one attribute; aggregating the plurality of data flows into the aggregated data according to the plurality of instrument types over the configurable time interval; and determining a percentage that each instrument type in the plurality of instrument types occurs in the aggregated data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one attribute identifies a cross-border transaction.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one attribute identifies an instrument type in a plurality of instrument types.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying an attribute in the plurality of data flows; and masking data that corresponds to the attribute.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining further comprises: determining a subset of data from the historical data that was aggregated during a time interval; and comparing the subset data against the aggregated data.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining further comprises: determining a subset of data from the historical data, wherein the subset of data has been aggregated during a second configurable time interval; weighing the subset of data according to criteria; and comparing the weighted subset of data and the aggregated data.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the alert includes a deviation between the aggregated data and historical data and a reason code.
12. A system for determining an anomaly in a distributed processing system, the system comprising: a non-transitory memory storing instructions; and one or more hardware processors coupled to the non-transitory memory and configured to read the instructions from the non-transitory memory to cause the system to perform operations comprising: accessing, from a memory storage a plurality of data flows, each data flow including a plurality of attributes that were collected in a distributed computing system over a configurable time interval; aggregating the plurality of data flows according to a first attribute and a second attribute in the plurality of attributes into aggregated data; accessing historical data, wherein the historical data includes aggregated data from a plurality of time intervals that occurred prior to a time during which the plurality of data flows was collected; identifying the anomaly by determining, in real-time, that the aggregated data deviates from the historical data by a predetermined threshold; and generating an alert that includes the anomaly.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise: appending the aggregated data to the historical data, wherein the stored historical data includes the aggregated data from the configurable time interval and aggregated data from the plurality of the prior time intervals.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the operations that aggregate the plurality of data flows further comprise: identifying the first attribute that is an instrument; aggregating the plurality of data flows into the aggregated data according to difference in type of the instrument, wherein the aggregating occurs over the configurable time interval; and determining a percentage that each instrument type that occurs in the aggregated data.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise: identifying a third attribute in the plurality of data flows; and masking data that corresponds to the third attribute.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the operations that identify the anomaly further comprise: determining a subset of data from the historical data that was aggregated during a time interval; and comparing the subset data against the aggregated data.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein the operations that identify the anomaly further comprise: determining a subset of data from the historical data, wherein the subset of data has been aggregated during a second configurable time interval; weighing the subset of data according to criteria; and comparing the weighted subset of data and the aggregated data.
18. The system of claim 12, wherein the alert includes a deviation between the aggregated data and historical data and a reason code.
19. A non-transitory machine-readable medium having stored thereon machine-readable instructions executable to cause a machine to perform operations comprising: accessing, from a memory storage a plurality of data flows, each data flow including a plurality of attributes that were collected in a distributed computing system over a configurable time interval; aggregating the plurality of data flows according to at least one attribute in the plurality of attributes into aggregated data; accessing historical data, wherein the historical data includes aggregated data from a plurality of time intervals that occurred prior to a time during which the plurality of data flows was collected; identifying an anomaly by determining, in real-time, that the aggregated data deviates from the historical data by a predetermined threshold, wherein the identifying the anomaly utilizes at least one model in a plurality of models; and generating an alert that includes the anomaly and a reason for the anomaly.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 19, wherein aggregating the plurality of data flows further comprises: identifying a first attribute that is an instrument; aggregating the plurality of data flows into the aggregated data according to difference in type of the instrument, wherein the aggregating occurs over the configurable time interval; and determining a percentage that each instrument type that occurs in the aggregated data.
</claims>
</document>
