<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N3/08,G06N5/04,G06N7/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
F-SECURE
</assignee>

<inventors>
AKSELA, MATTI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66380493
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD OF THREAT DETECTION IN A COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A method comprising: receiving raw data related to one or more network nodes, wherein dissimilar data types are aligned as input events; filtering one or more of the input events by using an adjustable threshold that is based on a filtering score, wherein the filtering score is an estimate of the likelihood that the input event is followed by a security related detection; processing only input events passed through the filtering by an enrichment process; and analysing the data received from the enrichment process for generating a security related decision.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of threat detection, the method comprising: receiving raw data related to one or more network nodes, wherein dissimilar data types are aligned as input events; filtering one or more of the input events by using an adjustable threshold that is based on a filtering score, wherein the filtering score is an estimate of the likelihood that the input event is followed by a security related detection; processing input events passed through the filtering by an enrichment process; and analysing the data received from the enrichment process for generating a security related decision.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the filtering of the one or more of the input events is further based on one or more of: a self-learning rule set, a decision tree, a deep learning neural network or another machine learning model.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the machine learning model is trained on the whole set of data received from a plurality of network nodes.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the raw data is received, by a security server backend, from a plurality of network nodes of a computer network.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the raw data is received by a network node of a computer network.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the filtering of the input events is executed by a security server backend or by a network node of a computer network.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein said event enrichment process comprises extending the structure and context of events with previously collected data.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein said analysing the data comprises using at least one of the following processes for generating the security related decision: predetermined rules, heuristics, machine learning models, fuzzy logic based models, statistical inference based model.
9. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: implementing an off-line process for separate analysis of the unfiltered input events for ensuring optimal performance and detection capabilities for the threat detection and updating used machine learning model used to generate the filtering score regularly on the basis of the result of the separate analysis.
10. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: taking further action to secure the computer network and/or any related network node, wherein the further action comprises any one or more of: preventing one or more of the network nodes from being switched off; switching on a firewall at one or more of the network nodes; slowing down or blocking network connectivity of one or more of the network nodes; removing or placing into quarantine suspicious files; collecting logs from network nodes; executing sets of command on network nodes; warning a user of one or more of the network nodes that signs of a security breach have been detected; and/or sending a software update to one or more of the network nodes.
11. An apparatus in a computer network system comprising: one or more processors configured to: receive raw data related to one or more network nodes, wherein dissimilar data types are aligned as input events; filter one or more of the input events by using an adjustable threshold that is based on a filtering score, wherein the filtering score is an estimate of the likelihood that the input event is followed by a security related detection; process input events passed through the filtering by an enrichment process; and analyse the data received from the enrichment process for generating a security related decision.
12. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the filtering of the one or more of the input events is further based on one or more of: a self-learning rule set, a decision tree, a deep learning neural network or another machine learning model.
13. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the machine learning model is trained on the whole set of data received from a plurality of network nodes.
14. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the raw data is received, by a security server backend, from a plurality of network nodes of the computer network.
15. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the raw data is received by a network node of a computer network.
16. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the filtering score is generated by a security server backend.
17. The apparatus according to claim 16, the processor being further configured to generate one or more filtering rules or models on the basis of the generated filtering score and to deploy the generated one or more filtering rules or models to one or more endpoints of the computer network.
18. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the filtering of the input events is executed by at least one of: a security server backend, a network node, an endpoint of a computer network.
19. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said event enrichment process comprises extending the structure and context of events with previously collected data.
20. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said analysing the data comprises using at least one of the following processes for generating the security related decision: predetermined rules, heuristics, machine learning models, fuzzy logic based models, statistical inference based model.
21. The apparatus according to claim 11, the processor being further configured to: implement an off-line process for separate analysis of the unfiltered input events for ensuring optimal performance and detection capabilities for the threat detection and update used machine learning model used to generate the filtering score regularly on the basis of the result of the separate analysis.
22. The apparatus according to claim 11, the processor being further configured to: take further action to secure the computer network and/or any related network node, wherein the further action comprises any one or more of: preventing one or more of the network nodes from being switched off; switching on a firewall at one or more of the network nodes; slowing down or blocking network connectivity of one or more of the network nodes; removing or placing into quarantine suspicious files; collecting logs from network nodes; executing sets of command on network nodes; warning a user of one or more of the network nodes that signs of a security breach have been detected; and/or sending a software update to one or more of the network nodes.
23. A computer program comprising computer readable code which, when run on a computer system or server, causes the computer system or server to act as a computer system or server according to claim 11.
24. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable medium and a computer program according to claim 21, wherein the computer program is stored on the computer readable medium.
</claims>
</document>
