<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALBA, ALFREDO
WELCH, STEVEN R.
GRUHL, DANIEL
GENTILE, ANNA LISA
KAU, CHRIS
RISTOSKI, PETAR
LOURENTZOU, ISMINI
Kato, Linda Ha
DeLuca, Chad Eric
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73549724
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Collaborative Information Extraction
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments relate to a system, program product, and method for information extraction and annotation of a data set. Neural models are utilized to automatically attach machine annotations to data elements within an unlabeled data set. The attached machine annotations are evaluated and a score is attached to the annotations. The score reflects a confidence of correctness of the annotations. A labeled data set is iteratively expanded with selectively evaluated annotations based on the attached score. The labeled data set is applied to an unexplored corpus to identify matching corpus data to populated instances of the labeled data set.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising: a processing unit operatively coupled to memory; an artificial intelligence (AI) platform in communication with the processing unit, the AI platform to manage information extraction, including: a machine learning manager to apply an unlabeled data set to two or more neural models for automated annotation, including the two or more neural models to preliminarily and automatically attach machine annotations to data elements within the unlabeled data set; a data selector to evaluate the attached machine annotations for accuracy, including a calibration model to evaluate the attached machine annotations and assign a score to each machine annotation, wherein the assigned score reflects confidence of correctness of the individual machine annotations; a director to calibrate the data selector, including the director to iteratively expand a labeled data set of selective evaluated machine annotations, wherein the selective and iterative expansion leverages the score attached to individual machine annotations; and an applicator to apply the iteratively expanded labeled data set to an unexplored corpus, and identify matching corpus data to populated instances of the labeled data set.
2. The computer system of claim 1, further comprising the data selector to train the two or more neural models with the labeled data set, including the data selector to remove annotated instances of the labeled data set from the unlabeled data set, and subject the unlabeled data set for automated annotation, including the two or more neural models to leverage the annotated instances of the labeled data set.
3. The computer system of claim 1, further comprising the data selector to subject machine annotations having a first score to a manual annotation, and to populate the manual annotations into the labeled data set.
4. The computer system of claim 3, wherein the annotated instances of the labeled data set are selected from the group consisting of: manual annotations having the attached first score, machine annotations having an attached second score, and combinations thereof.
5. The computer system of claim 4, wherein the iterative expansion of the labeled data set with selective evaluated annotations includes the data selector to optimize the labeled data set with machine annotations having the attached second score before manual annotations having the attached first score.
6. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the automated data annotation and the evaluation of the attached machine annotations is language neutral.
7. A computer program product for information extraction, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, the program code executable by a processor to: apply an unlabeled data set to two or more neural models for automated annotation, including the two or more neural models to preliminarily and automatically attach machine annotations to data elements within the unlabeled data set; train a machine learning model to evaluate the attached machine annotations with respect to accuracy, including the machine learning model to subject the attached machine annotations to an evaluation and attach a score to each machine annotation, wherein the attached score reflects confidence of correctness of the individual machine annotations; calibrate the machine learning model, including iteratively expand a labeled data set with selective evaluated annotations, wherein the selective and iterative expansion leverages the score attached to individual machine annotations; apply the iteratively expanded labeled data set to an unexplored corpus to identify matching corpus data to populated instances of the labeled data set.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, further comprising the processor to train the two or more neural models with the labeled data set, including remove annotated instances of the labeled data set from the unlabeled data set, and subject the unlabeled data set for automated annotation using the two or more neural models and the annotated instances of the labeled data set.
9. The computer program product of claim 7, further comprising the processor to subject machine annotations having a first score to a manual annotation, and populate the manual annotations into the labeled data set.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the annotated instances of the labeled data set are selected from the group consisting of: manual annotations having an attached first score, machine annotations having an attached second score, and combinations thereof.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the iterative expansion of the labeled data set with selective evaluated annotations includes the processor to optimize the labeled data set with machine annotations having the attached second score before manual annotations having the attached first score.
12. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the automated data annotation and the evaluation of the attached machine annotations is language neutral.
13. A computer implemented method for information extraction, the method comprising: applying an unlabeled data set to two or more neural models for automated annotation, including the two or more neural models preliminarily and automatically attaching machine annotations to data elements within the unlabeled data set; training a machine learning model to evaluate the attached machine annotations with respect to accuracy, including the machine learning model subjecting the attached machine annotations to an evaluation and attaching a score to each machine annotation, wherein the attached score reflects confidence of correctness of the individual machine annotations; calibrating the machine learning model, including iteratively expanding a labeled data set with selective evaluated annotations, wherein the selective and iterative expansion leverages the score attached to individual machine annotations; applying the iteratively expanded labeled data set to an unexplored corpus to identify matching corpus data to populated instances of the labeled data set.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising training the two or more neural models with the labeled data set, including removing annotated instances of the labeled data set from the unlabeled data set, and subjecting the unlabeled data set for automated annotation using the two or more neural models and the annotated instances of the labeled data set.
15. The method of claim 13, further comprising subjecting machine annotations having a first score to a manual annotation, and populating the manual annotations into the labeled data set.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the annotated instances of the labeled data set are selected from the group consisting of: manual annotations having an attached first score, machine annotations having an attached second score, and combinations thereof.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the step of iteratively expanding the labeled data set with selective evaluated annotations includes optimizing the labeled data set with machine annotations having the attached second score before manual annotations having the attached first score.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the automated data annotation and the evaluation of the attached machine annotations is language neutral.
</claims>
</document>
