<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N99/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OATH CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
PELLEG, DAN
MEJER, AVIHAI
TABAJA, ALI
BAUMEL, TAL
CLARK, SIAN
FYODOROV, YAROSLAV
RAIBER, FIANA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69587249
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING EMOTIONALLY COMPATIBLE CONTENT AND APPLICATION THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
The present teaching relates to a method and system for selecting content. Upon receiving a request with an indication of a first piece of content for selecting one or more pieces of second content to be presented together with the first piece of content, a plurality of pieces of candidate second content are identified. At least one sentiment feature associated with the first piece of content is determined and the one or more pieces of second content are selected from the plurality of pieces of candidate second content based on the at least one sentiment feature of the first piece of content so that the one or more pieces of second content are emotionally compatible with the first piece of content. The one or more pieces of second content are sent in response to the request.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method, implemented on a machine having at least one processor, storage, and a communication platform for selecting content, comprising: receiving, via the communication platform, a request with an indication of a first piece of content for selecting one or more pieces of second content to be presented together with the first piece of content; identifying a plurality of pieces of candidate second content; determining at least one sentiment feature associated with the first piece of content; selecting the one or more pieces of second content from the plurality of pieces of candidate second content based on the at least one sentiment feature of the first piece of content so that the one or more pieces of second content are emotionally compatible with the first piece of content; and sending the one or more pieces of second content in response to the request.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of the selecting comprises: the first piece of content corresponds to information to be presented to a user; and each of the one or more pieces of second content corresponds to an advertisement.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of pieces of candidate second content are identified based on at least some of: one or more contextual features associated with the first piece of content; and one or more features associated with each piece of the candidate second content; and information associated with a user to whom the first piece of content and the one or more pieces of second content are to be presented.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one sentiment feature of the first piece of content reflects an emotion expressed by the first piece of content.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of the selecting the one or more pieces of second content comprises: for each of the plurality of pieces of candidate second content, determining at least some sentiment feature associated with the piece of candidate second content, determining compatibility between the first piece of content and the piece of candidate second content based on the at least one sentiment feature associated with the first piece of content and the at least some sentiment feature associated with the piece of candidate second content, and filtering out the piece of candidate second content if the first piece of content and the piece of candidate second content are not compatible; and identifying the one or more pieces of second content that correspond to pieces of candidate second content that are compatible with the first piece of content.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the step of determining compatibility is performed based on an emotion-based ad filtering model that is trained via machine learning.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one sentiment feature is extracted based on a sentiment feature model obtained via machine learning.
8. A system for selecting content, the system comprising: a content analyzer implemented by at least one processor and configured to: receive a request with an indication of a first piece of content for selecting one or more pieces of second content to be presented together with the first piece of content, and determine at least one sentiment feature associated with the first piece of content; an ad selector implemented by the at least one processor and configured to identify a plurality of pieces of candidate second content; and an emotion-based ad filtering engine implemented by the at least one processor and configured to: select the one or more pieces of second content from the plurality of pieces of candidate second content based on the at least one sentiment feature of the first piece of content so that the one or more pieces of second content are emotionally compatible with the first piece of content, and send the one or more pieces of second content in response to the request.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the first piece of content corresponds to information to be presented to a user, and each of the one or more pieces of second content corresponds to an advertisement.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of pieces of candidate second content are identified based on at least some of: one or more contextual features associated with the first piece of content; and one or more features associated with each piece of the candidate second content; and information associated with a user to whom the first piece of content and the one or more pieces of second content are to be presented.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one sentiment feature of the first piece of content reflects an emotion expressed by the first piece of content.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the emotion-based ad filtering engine is further configured to: for each of the plurality of pieces of candidate second content, determine at least some sentiment feature associated with the piece of candidate second content, determine compatibility between the first piece of content and the piece of candidate second content based on the at least one sentiment feature associated with the first piece of content and the at least some sentiment feature associated with the piece of candidate second content, and filter out the piece of candidate second content if the first piece of content and the piece of candidate second content are not compatible; and identify the one or more pieces of second content that correspond to pieces of candidate second content that are compatible with the first piece of content.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the emotion-based ad filtering engine is further configured to determine compatibility based on an emotion-based ad filtering model that is trained via machine learning.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one sentiment feature is extracted based on a sentiment feature model obtained via machine learning.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium including computer executable instructions, wherein the instructions, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to perform a method for selecting content, the method comprising: receiving, via the communication platform, a request with an indication of a first piece of content for selecting one or more pieces of second content to be presented together with the first piece of content; identifying a plurality of pieces of candidate second content; determining at least one sentiment feature associated with the first piece of content; selecting the one or more pieces of second content from the plurality of pieces of candidate second content based on the at least one sentiment feature of the first piece of content so that the one or more pieces of second content are emotionally compatible with the first piece of content; and sending the one or more pieces of second content in response to the request.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the step of the selecting comprises: the first piece of content corresponds to information to be presented to a user; and each of the one or more pieces of second content corresponds to an advertisement.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the plurality of pieces of candidate second content are identified based on at least some of: one or more contextual features associated with the first piece of content; and one or more features associated with each piece of the candidate second content; and information associated with a user to whom the first piece of content and the one or more pieces of second content are to be presented.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the at least one sentiment feature of the first piece of content reflects an emotion expressed by the first piece of content.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein the step of the selecting the one or more pieces of second content comprises: for each of the plurality of pieces of candidate second content, determining at least some sentiment feature associated with the piece of candidate second content, determining compatibility between the first piece of content and the piece of candidate second content based on the at least one sentiment feature associated with the first piece of content and the at least some sentiment feature associated with the piece of candidate second content, and filtering out the piece of candidate second content if the first piece of content and the piece of candidate second content are not compatible; and identifying the one or more pieces of second content that correspond to pieces of candidate second content that are compatible with the first piece of content.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 19, wherein the step of determining compatibility is performed based on an emotion-based ad filtering model that is trained via machine learning.
</claims>
</document>
