<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/58,H04L29/06,H04L29/08,H04M3/00,H04M3/42,H04M3/51,H04M3/523,H04M7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AVAYA
Avaya, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
D'ARCY, PAUL
O'CONNOR, NEIL
YOAKUM, JOHN, H.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65360800
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for providing automated progress updates in a contact center
</title>

<abstract>
Providing automated progress updates in a contact center including detecting an activity by a resource of the contact center related to a customer interaction occurring via a customer communications channel between the resource and a customer. The activity comprises an interaction between the resource and one or more additional resources associated with the contact center occurring via a second communications channel. In response to detecting the activity by the resource, a notification comprising a progress update related to the customer interaction is automatically generated. The notification is transmitted, via the customer communications channel, to a customer device associated with the customer interaction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for providing automated progress updates in a contact center, the method comprising: detecting, by a processor, an activity by a resource of the contact center related to a customer interaction, wherein the customer interaction occurs via a customer communications channel between the resource and a customer, the activity comprising an interaction occurring via a second communications channel between the resource and one or more additional resources associated with the contact center; in response to detecting the activity by the resource that is occurring via the second communications channel, automatically generating, by the processor, based on the activity, a notification comprising a progress update related to the customer interaction; and transmitting, by the processor, via the customer communications channel, the notification to a customer device associated with the customer interaction.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying, by the processor, one or more filter rules relating to the transmission of the notification to the customer device.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: repeating, by the processor, based on the application of the one or more filter rules, a transmission of a previous notification to the customer device.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: automatically generating, by the processor, a plurality of notifications related to the customer interaction; and grouping, by the processor based on the application of the one or more filter rules, two or more of the plurality of notifications into a single notification.
5. The method of claim 2, further comprising: automatically generating, by the processor, a plurality of notifications related to the customer interaction; and based on the application of the one or more filter rules: holding, by the processor, the plurality of notifications for a predefined time interval; and upon expiration of the predefined time interval, transmitting, by the processor, only a most recent notification to the customer device.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprising: selecting, by the processor, based on the application of the one or more filter rules, at least one of: (i) a notification media type; or (ii) a communications mode for transmitting the notification.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein at least one of the one or more filter rules are based on at least one of a customer preference or a customer characteristic.
8. The method of claim 2, wherein applying the one or more filter rules comprises applying a plurality of filter rules each comprising a respective weight, the method further comprising: determining, by the processor based on the respective weight, an order of application of the plurality of filter rules.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: monitoring, by the processor, the customer interaction; and altering, based on the monitoring, one or more rules relating to at least one of generating the notification or transmitting the notification.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the customer interaction comprises a first voice interaction, the method further comprising: detecting, by the processor, a second activity by the resource related to a second voice interaction, wherein the second voice interaction occurs via the customer communications channel between the resource and a second customer, the second activity comprising an interaction occurring via the second communications channel between the resource and the one or more additional resources, wherein the second voice interaction is handled by the resource simultaneously with the first voice interaction; in response to detecting the second activity by the resource that is occurring via the second communications channel, automatically generating, by the processor, based on the second activity, a second notification comprising a second progress update related to the second voice interaction; and transmitting, by the processor, via the customer communications channel, the second notification to a second customer device associated with the second voice interaction.
11. A system for providing automated progress updates in a contact center, the system comprising: a memory device storing executable instructions; and a processor in communication with the memory device, wherein the processor when executing the executable instructions: detects an activity by a resource of the contact center related to a customer interaction, wherein the customer interaction occurs via a customer communications channel between the resource and a customer, the activity comprising an interaction occurring via a second communications channel between the resource and one or more additional resources associated with the contact center; in response to detecting the activity by the resource that is occurring via the second communications channel, automatically generates, based on the activity, a notification comprising a progress update related to the customer interaction; and transmits, via the customer communications channel, the notification to a customer device associated with the customer interaction.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor when executing the executable instructions: applies one or more filter rules relating to the transmission of the notification to the customer device associated with the customer interaction.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor when executing the executable instructions: repeats, based on the application of the one or more filter rules, a transmission of a previous notification to the customer device.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor when executing the executable instructions: automatically generates a plurality of notifications related to the customer interaction; and groups, based on the application of the one or more filter rules, two or more of the plurality of notifications into a single notification.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor when executing the executable instructions: automatically generates a plurality of notifications related to the customer interaction; and based on the application of the one or more filter rules: holds the plurality of notifications for a predefined time interval; and upon expiration of the predefined time interval, transmits only a most recent notification to the customer device.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor when executing the executable instructions: selects, based on the application of the one or more filters, at least one of: (i) a notification media type; or (ii) a communications mode for transmitting the notification.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein at least one of the one or more filter rules are based on at least one of a customer preference or a customer characteristic.
18. The system of claim 12, wherein applying the one or more filter rules comprises applying a plurality of filter rules each comprising a respective weight and wherein the processor when executing the executable instructions: based on the respective weight, determines an order of application of the plurality of filter rules.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor when executing the executable instructions: monitors the customer interaction; and based on the monitoring, alters one or more rules relating to at least one of generating the notification or transmitting the notification.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the customer interaction comprises a first voice interaction and wherein the processor when executing the executable instructions: detects a second activity by the resource related to a second voice interaction, wherein the second voice interaction occurs via the customer communications channel between the resource and a second customer, the second activity comprising an interaction occurring via the second communications channel between the resource and the one or more additional resources, wherein the second voice interaction is handled by the resource simultaneously with the first voice interaction; in response to detecting the second activity by the resource that is occurring via the second communications channel, automatically generates, based on the second activity, a second notification comprising a second progress update related to the second voice interaction; and transmits, via the customer communications channel, the second notification to a second customer device associated with the second voice interaction.
</claims>
</document>
