<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/45,G06F16/483,G06F16/65,G06F16/683,G06F16/75,G06F16/783,G06F16/908,G06F40/169,G06F40/205,G06F40/263,G06F40/30,G06N20/00,G06N3/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DISNEY ENTERPRISES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MARATTA, CONCETTA
WESTERWELLE, FABIAN
TOBACK, ZACHARY
WIENER, JARED L.
KENNEDY, BRIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70550467
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Content processing automation
</title>

<abstract>
In one implementation, a content processing system includes a computing platform having a hardware processor and a system memory storing a content classification software code, a natural language processor, and a computer vision analyzer. The hardware processor executes the content classification software code to receive content inputs from multiple content sources, and, for each content input, to parse the content input for metadata describing the content input, obtain a description of language-based content included in the content input from the natural language processor, and obtain a description of visual content included in the content input from the computer vision analyzer. The content classification software code further associates predetermined annotation tags with the content input based on the metadata, the description of the language-based content, and the description of the visual content, and assigns the content input to a predetermined subject matter classification based on the associated annotation tags.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A content processing system comprising: a computing platform including a hardware processor and a system memory; the system memory storing a content classification software code, a natural language processor, and a computer vision analyzer; the hardware processor configured to execute the content classification software code to: to receive a plurality of content inputs from a plurality of content sources; for each content input of the plurality of content inputs: parse the content input for metadata describing the content input; obtain a description of a language-based content included in the content input from the natural language processor; obtain a description of a visual content included in the content input from the computer vision analyzer; associate a plurality of predetermined annotation tags with the content input based on the metadata, the description of the language-based content, and the description of the visual content; and assign the content input to a predetermined subject matter classification based on the plurality of predetermined annotation tags.
2. The content processing system of claim 1, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to execute the content classification software code to: perform a comparison of the content input to other content inputs of the plurality of content inputs assigned to a same predetermined subject matter classification; generate a new annotation tag based on the comparison in an automated annotation process; and associate the new annotation tag with at least one of the content input and at least one of the other content inputs.
3. The content processing system of claim 1, wherein the natural language processor comprises an artificial neural network.
4. The content processing system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of content inputs comprises video content.
5. The content processing system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of content inputs comprises social media content.
6. The content processing system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of content inputs comprises crowd sourced content.
7. The content processing system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of content inputs comprises a news feed.
8. The content processing system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of content sources is a user of the content processing system authorized to access the predetermined subject matter classification.
9. The content processing system of claim 1, wherein the predetermined subject matter classification corresponds to a news story.
10. The content processing system of claim 9, wherein at least one of the plurality of content inputs comprises a journalistic contribution to the news story submitted by a user of the content processing system authorized to access the predetermined subject matter classification.
11. A method for use by a media content annotation system including a computing platform having a hardware processor and a system memory storing a content classification software code, a natural language processor, and a computer vision analyzer, the method comprising: receiving, using the hardware processor and the content classification software code, a plurality of content inputs from a plurality of content sources; for each content input of the plurality of content inputs: parsing the content input, using the hardware processor and the content classification software code, for metadata describing the content input; obtaining, using the hardware processor and the content classification software code, a description of a language-based content included in the content input from the natural language processor; obtaining, using the hardware processor and the content classification software code, a description of a visual content included in the content input from the computer vision analyzer; associating, using the hardware processor and the content classification software code, a plurality of predetermined annotation tags with the content input based on the metadata, the description of the language-based content, and the description of the visual content; and assigning, using the hardware processor and the content classification software code, the content input to a predetermined subject matter classification based on the plurality of predetermined annotation tags.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: performing a comparison, using the hardware processor and the content classification software code, of the content input to other content inputs of the plurality of content inputs assigned to a same predetermined subject matter classification; generating, using the hardware processor and the content classification software code, a new annotation tag based on the comparison in an automated annotation process; and associating, using the hardware processor and the content classification software code, the new annotation tag with at least one of the content input and at least one of the other content inputs.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the natural language processor comprises an artificial neural network.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein at least one of the plurality of content inputs comprises video content.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein at least one of the plurality of content inputs comprises social media content.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein at least one of the plurality of content inputs comprises crowd sourced content.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein at least one of the plurality of content inputs comprises a news feed.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein at least one of the plurality of content sources is a user of the content processing system authorized to access the predetermined subject matter classification.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein the predetermined subject matter classification corresponds to a news story.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein at least one of the plurality of content inputs comprises a journalistic contribution to the news story submitted by a user of the content processing system authorized to access the predetermined subject matter classification.
</claims>
</document>
