<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9537,G16H80/00,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMBOLD HEALTH
</assignee>

<inventors>
Frey, Tony Carl
Kneisler, Adam
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650097
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROVIDER DETERMINATION SYSTEM, METHODS FOR DETERMINING PROVIDERS WITHIN A PROVIDER NETWORK, AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING INFORMATION RELATED TO PROVIDERS TO A USER VIA A COMMUNICATION SESSION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods of providing provider information to a client device includes receiving, from a client device, an inquiry message requesting information for a provider within a user's provider network, generating and providing a request for location information; receiving a location response message, determining whether a location identified by the location response message is currently supported by the provider determination system, generating and providing a provider type request, receiving a provider type response message; determining whether there are providers within the user's provider network that match both the location identified in the location response message and a provider type identified in the provide type response message, generating and providing a provider list message, receiving a provider selection response message selecting a provider from the provider list message, generating and providing a provider information message including information related to the selected provider.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method of accessing a provider directory using messages, natural language processing, and a provider determination system, comprising: receiving, from a client device, a message requesting information for a provider within a user's provider network; analyzing the message via natural language processing to determine a meaning of the message; based on the determined meaning, matching the message with a communication category of the provider determination system; identifying queries based on query parameters identified in the determined meaning of the message and the matched communication category; submitting the queries to a provider database to identify one or more providers that match the identified query parameters; and providing information related to the one or more providers to the client device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the message comprises receiving at least one of an SMS message, an audio message, a video message, an email message, or a messenger message.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the message comprises receiving the inquiry message at a third-party system and then, subsequently receiving the message from the third-party system at the provider determination system.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to receiving the inquiry message, generating a request for location information; and sending request for location information to client device.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: receiving, from the client device, a location response message; identifying a location indicated in the location response message as a query parameter; and determining whether a location identified by the location response message is currently supported by a provider determination system.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: in response to determining that the location is currently supported by the provider determination system, generating a provider type request; and sending the provider type request to the client device.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: receiving, from the client device, a provider type response message; identifying a provider type indicated in the provider type response message as a query parameter; and determining, via one or more queries of the provider database, whether there are providers within the user's provider network that match both the location identified in the location response message and a provider type identified in the provide type response message.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: in response to identifying one or more providers that match both the location identified in the location response message and the provider type identified in the provide type response message, generating a provider list message; sending the provider list message to the client device; receiving, from the client device, a provider selection response message selecting a provider from the provider list message; in response to receiving the provider selection response message, generating a provider information message including information related to the selected provider; and sending the provider information message to the client device.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein determining whether there are providers within a user's provider network that match the location identified in the location response message comprises determining whether there are providers within a radius of one of five, ten, twenty-five, fifty, or one hundred miles from the location.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing message via the natural language processing system comprises analyzing the inquiry message via a natural language process comprising at least one machine learning technique.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying the user's provider network based on one of a unique identifier of a user or a provider determination system identifier to which the message is sent.
12. A system comprising: at least one processor; and at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions thereon that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: receive, from a first client device, a referral request message; in response to receiving the referral request message, generate a request for contact information associated with a second client device; send the request for contact information to the first client device; receive, from the first client device, a contact information response message; in response to receiving the contact information response message, generate a request for a relay message; send the request for a relay message to the second client device; receive, from the first client device, a relay message; send the relay message to the second client device with an invitation to initiate communication with the system via an inquiry message; receive, from the second client device, an inquiry message requesting information for a provider within a user's provider network; in response to receiving a location response message and a provider type response message from the second client device, determine whether there are providers within the user's provider network that match both a location identified in the location response message and a provider type identified in the provide type response message; in response to identifying one or more providers that match both the location identified in the location response message and the provider type identified in the provide type response message, generate a provider list message; send the provider list message to the second client device; receive, from the second client device, a provider selection response message selecting a provider from the provider list message; in response to receiving the provider selection response message, generate a provider information message including information related to the selected provider; and send the provider information message to the second client device.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein receiving, from the second client device, a provider type response message comprises receiving an indication of a doctor specialty.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein generating the provider list message comprises ranking providers identified within the provider list message according to a curation process that considers at least one of wait time, patient feedback rankings, cost, number of malpractice claims, an employer preference, or a provider network preference.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein generating the provider list message comprises ranking providers identified within the provider list message according to distance from the location identified in the location response message.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions thereon that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform steps comprising: receiving, from a client device, an inquiry message requesting information for a provider within a user's provider network; in response to receiving the inquiry message, providing a request for location information and a provider type request to the client device; in response to receiving a location response message and a provider type response message, determining whether there are providers within the user's provider network that match both a location identified in the location response message and a provider type identified in the provide type response message; in response to identifying one or more providers that match both the location identified in the location response message and the provider type identified in the provide type response message, generating a provider list message and providing the provider list message to the client device; in response to receiving a provider selection message selecting a provider from the provider list message, generating a provider information message including information related to the selected provider and an option to initiate an action in related to the selected provider; providing the provider information message to the client device; receiving an indication from the client device to initiate the action related to the selected provider; and initiating the action related to the selected provider.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein initiating the action related to the selected provider comprises at least one of initiating a telephone call with the selected provider, initiating a communication session with the selected provider, scheduling an appointment with the selected provider, or forwarding the provider information message to another client device.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein providing a request for location information and a provider type request comprises generating the request for location information and the provider type request to match a communication type of the inquiry message.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein providing a request for location information and a provider type request comprises generating the request for location information and the provider type request via a natural language generation system.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein receiving the inquiry message comprises receiving at least one of an SMS message, an audio message, a video message, an email message, or a messenger message.
</claims>
</document>
