<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/16,G06F21/30,G06T19/00,H04L29/08,H04W16/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARK, NAM YONG
YOON, TAESUK
LEE, CHUL HEE
LEE, DONGKYU
LEE, EUNKOO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68070485
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR SHARING APPLICATION MODULE AND APPARATUS USING THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
One or more of an autonomous vehicle, a user terminal, and a server of the present disclosure may be connected to, for example, an artificial intelligence module, an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), a robot, an augmented reality (AR) device, a virtual reality (VR) device, or a 5G service device. An information processing method in an electronic device according to one embodiment of the present disclosure includes identifying a container that is logically docked on an operating system (OS), identifying an application corresponding to the container, identifying an event related to running of the application, and transmitting, to another node, information on a first block on difference including first identification information for the first block on difference generated based on first data associated with the event and second identification information for the container.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing method in an electronic device, the method comprising: identifying a container that is logically docked on an operating system (OS); identifying an application corresponding to the container; identifying an event related to running of the application; and transmitting, to another node, information on a first block on difference including first identification information for the first block on difference generated based on first data associated with the event and second identification information for the container.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second identification information is generated based on at least a part of data included in the container before the container docks with the electronic device.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting, to the other node, information on a second block on difference including third identification information on the second block on difference generated based on second data associated with an additional event; and verifying fourth identification information on a new container including the first data and the second data, wherein the fourth identification information is verified based on the first identification information, the second identification information, and the third identification information.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising receiving a verification response for the fourth identification information from the other node, wherein the verification response is determined based on at least a part of the information on at least one block on difference transmitted to the other node.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the information on the first block on difference includes at least one of information on the electronic device, identification information on a block on difference generated before the first block on difference, information on an event by which the block on difference is generated, and information on the electronic device corresponding to the event.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting, to the other node, information on a status of the container in response to docking of the container.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a new container based on the first data and information included in the container; and transmitting information on the new container to the other node.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: transmitting, to a receiving device, request information for transmitting the new container; receiving response information to the request information; and transmitting the new container to the receiving device based on the response information.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: storing the second identification information; and deleting the second identification information in response to generation of the new container.
10. An electronic device comprising: a transceiver to communicate with another electronic device; and a controller configured to: control the transceiver; identify a container that is logically docked on an operating system (OS); identify an application corresponding to the container; identify an event related to running of the application; and transmit, to another node, information on a first block on difference including first identification information for the first block on difference generated based on first data associated with the event and second identification information for the container.
11. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the second identification information is generated based on at least a part of data included in the container before the container docks with the electronic device.
12. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the controller is configured to: transmit, to the other node, information on a second block on difference including third identification information on the second block on difference generated based on second data associated with an additional event; and verify fourth identification information on a new container including the first data and the second data, and wherein the fourth identification information is verified based on the first identification information, the second identification information, and the third identification information.
13. The electronic device of claim 12, wherein the controller is configured to receive a verification response for the fourth identification information from the other node, and wherein the verification response is determined based on at least a part of the information on at least one block on difference transmitted to the other node.
14. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the information on the first block on difference includes at least one of information on the electronic device, identification information on a block on difference generated before the first block on difference, information on an event by which the block on difference is generated, and information on the electronic device corresponding to the event.
15. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the controller is configured to transmit, to the other node, information on a status of the container in response to docking of the container.
16. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the controller is configured to: generate a new container based on the first data and information included in the container; and transmit information on the new container to the other node.
17. The electronic device of claim 16, wherein the controller is configured to: transmit, to a receiving device, request information for transmitting the new container; receive response information to the request information; and transmit the new container to the receiving device based on the response information.
18. The electronic device of claim 16, wherein the controller is configured to: store the second identification information; and delete the second identification information in response to generation of the new container.
19. A non-volatile memory medium comprising an instruction for executing the method of claim 1.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein the information on the first block on difference is transmitted through a channel allotted for at least one of a channel for vehicle to vehicle communication and a channel for vehicle to everything communication, and wherein the information on the first block on difference includes an identifier for identifying the electronic device and is transmitted to the other node through the channel by a 5G network.
</claims>
</document>
