<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/29,G06T15/10,G06T17/05
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAROLI, MANUEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72661890
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HEXAGON CLUSTERING OF SPATIAL DATA
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein are systems and method for mapping data points in a spatial data set. In some embodiments, a hexagon grid can be defined for mapping a plurality of data points in a spatial data set. Location information can be specified for each hexagon in the hexagon grid. The specifying can include calculating, for each hexagon, a first location of a first vertex and a second location of a second vertex. A rectangular grid including a plurality of rectangular cells can be mapped to the hexagon grid. A location of a data point of the plurality of data points can be determined relative to a first hexagon of the hexagon grid.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: at least one hardware data processor; and at least one memory storing instructions which, when executed by the at least one data processor, result in operations comprising: defining a hexagon grid for mapping a plurality of data points in a spatial data set; specifying location information for each hexagon in the hexagon grid, the specifying comprising calculating, for each hexagon, a first location of a first vertex and a second location of a second vertex; mapping a rectangular grid comprising a plurality of rectangular cells to the hexagon grid; and determining a location of a data point of the plurality of data points relative to a first hexagon of the hexagon grid.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining the location of the data point relative to the first hexagon comprises comparing a position of the data point relative to a first rectangular cell of the plurality of rectangular cells, the first rectangular cell surrounding the data point and including a line extending between the first vertex and the second vertex of the first rectangular cell.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining the location of the data point relative to the first hexagon comprises determining the data point is positioned at one of two first vertices of the first hexagon, the first vertices mapping the data point as being included in the first hexagon.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining the location of the data point relative to the first hexagon comprises determining the data point is positioned at one of four second vertices of the first hexagon, the second vertices mapping the data point as being outside of the first hexagon.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining the location of the data point relative to the first hexagon comprises determining the data point is positioned along one of three first sides of the first hexagon, the first sides mapping the data point as being included in the first hexagon.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining the location of the data point relative to the first hexagon comprises determining the data point is positioned along one of three second sides of the first hexagon, the second sides mapping the data point as being outside of the first hexagon.
7. The system of claim 1, further comprising determining all vertices for a selected hexagon in the hexagon grid, the determining of all vertices comprising: calculating the first location of the first vertex and the second location of the second vertex for the selected hexagon based on information for the selected hexagon; and calculating locations of the remaining vertices of the selected hexagon based on information for at least one neighboring hexagon that is adjacent to the selected hexagon, the neighboring hexagon sharing one of the remaining vertices of the selected hexagon.
8. A computer-implemented method, comprising: defining a hexagon grid for mapping a plurality of data points in a spatial data set; specifying location information for each hexagon in the hexagon grid, the specifying comprising calculating, for each hexagon, a first location of a first vertex and a second location of a second vertex; mapping a rectangular grid comprising a plurality of rectangular cells to the hexagon grid; and determining a location of a data point of the plurality of data points relative to a first hexagon of the hexagon grid.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the determining the location of the data point relative to the first hexagon comprises comparing a position of the data point relative to a first rectangular cell of the plurality of rectangular cells, the first rectangular cell surrounding the data point and including a line extending between the first vertex and the second vertex of the first rectangular cell.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the determining the location of the data point relative to the first hexagon comprises determining the data point is positioned at one of two first vertices of the first hexagon, the first vertices mapping the data point as being included in the first hexagon.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the determining the location of the data point relative to the first hexagon comprises determining the data point is positioned at one of four second vertices of the first hexagon, the second vertices mapping the data point as being outside of the first hexagon.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the determining the location of the data point relative to the first hexagon comprises determining the data point is positioned along one of three first sides of the first hexagon, the first sides mapping the data point as being included in the first hexagon.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the determining the location of the data point relative to the first hexagon comprises determining the data point is positioned along one of three second sides of the first hexagon, the second sides mapping the data point as being outside of the first hexagon.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising determining all vertices for a selected hexagon in the hexagon grid, the determining of all vertices comprising: calculating the first location of the first vertex and the second location of the second vertex for the selected hexagon based on information for the selected hexagon; and calculating locations of the remaining vertices of the selected hexagon based on information for at least one neighboring hexagon that is adjacent to the selected hexagon, the neighboring hexagon sharing one of the remaining vertices of the selected hexagon.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, which when executed by at least one data processor, result in operations comprising: defining a hexagon grid for mapping a plurality of data points in a spatial data set; specifying location information for each hexagon in the hexagon grid, the specifying comprising calculating, for each hexagon, a first location of a first vertex and a second location of a second vertex; mapping a rectangular grid comprising a plurality of rectangular cells to the hexagon grid; and determining a location of a data point of the plurality of data points relative to a first hexagon of the hexagon grid.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the determining the location of the data point relative to the first hexagon comprises comparing a position of the data point relative to a first rectangular cell of the plurality of rectangular cells, the first rectangular cell surrounding the data point and including a line extending between the first vertex and the second vertex of the first rectangular cell.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the determining the location of the data point relative to the first hexagon comprises determining the data point is positioned at one of two first vertices of the first hexagon, the first vertices mapping the data point as being included in the first hexagon.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the determining the location of the data point relative to the first hexagon comprises determining the data point is positioned at one of four second vertices of the first hexagon, the second vertices mapping the data point as being outside of the first hexagon.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the determining the location of the data point relative to the first hexagon comprises determining the data point is positioned along one of three first sides of the first hexagon, the first sides mapping the data point as being included in the first hexagon.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the determining the location of the data point relative to the first hexagon comprises determining the data point is positioned along one of three second sides of the first hexagon, the second sides mapping the data point as being outside of the first hexagon.
</claims>
</document>
