<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROBERT BOSCH
</assignee>

<inventors>
WILLERS, OLIVER
Abrecht, Stephanie
Raafatnia, Shervin
Sudholt, Sebastian
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67137701
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR ESTIMATING A GLOBAL UNCERTAINTY OF A NEURAL NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
A method for estimating a global uncertainty of output data of a computer implemented main neural network. The method includes determining a first measure quantifying to which extent the current input data of the main neural network is following the same distribution as the data, which was used for training the main neural network; generating a second measure quantifying the main neural network's certainty in its own prediction based on the input data; ascertaining a third measure, based on an estimation of class-discriminative features in the input data and a comparison of these features with a class activation probability distribution, especially wherein the class activation probability distribution was created based on estimated class-discriminative features during the training of the main neural network; and determining the global uncertainty based on at least two measures of the first, second and third measure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for estimating a global uncertainty of output data of a computer implemented main neural network, comprising the following steps: determining a first measure which quantifies to which extent current input data of the main neural network is following the same distribution as data which was used for training the main neural network; generating a second measure which quantifies the main neural network's certainty in its own prediction based on the current input data; ascertaining a third measure, based on an estimation of class-discriminative features in the input data and a comparison of these features with a class activation probability distribution; and determining the global uncertainty based on at least two measures out of the first measure, the second measure, and the third measure.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein second measure is generated using at least one Bayesian method of an ensemble based approach.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the class activation probability distribution is created based on estimated class-discriminative features during the training of the main neural network
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the determination of the first measure is achieved using an autoencoder.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the autoencoder is a variational autoencoder.
6. The method according to claim 4, wherein the autoencoder includes an encoder part and a decoder part, wherein the encoder part is trained to map input data to a lower dimensional feature space, the lower dimensional feature space being a latent space, and the decoder part tries to reconstruct the original higher dimensional input from the latent space, wherein the first measure is based on a computation of a probability density value of the input data mapped to the latent space or on an estimated reconstruction error of the autoencoder.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the autoencoder is a variational autoencoder.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the generation of the second measure is based on a Bayesian modelling of the main neural network.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the main neural network is modelled as a Bayesian neural network.
10. The method according to claim 8, wherein weights of the main neural network are modeled as distributions.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the training of the main neural network is performed using variational inference.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the main neural network is modelled as a Bayesian neural network wherein the variational inference of the Bayesian neural network is performed using numeric integration, wherein the weight distributions are sampled n times and each sampled set of weights is used once in order to predict the n different outputs for a given input, wherein an average of the sampled outputs is then used as a prediction of the main neural network while the variance of the prediction is used for computing the second measure.
13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the second measure is obtained by augmenting the main neural network with a Gaussian Process.
14. The method according to claim 1, wherein the second measure is generated via an ensemble decision of at least two neural networks.
15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the two neural networks have different network architectures or are trained using different training data sets.
16. The method according to claim 1, wherein the second measure is generated via an ensemble decision of different machine learning methods.
17. The method according to claim 16, wherein at least one of the learning methods is a neural network.
18. The method according to claim 1, wherein the class-discriminative features are estimated by computing scaled and/or unscaled features.
19. The method according to claim 18, wherein the class-discriminative features are estimated using activation heat maps by using a Grad-Cam method.
20. The method according to claim 19, wherein scaled activation heat maps of detected objects are compared to class activation heat maps, which were computed for all detected objects during training and are then combined class-wise and/or pixel-wise in to obtain the class activation probability distributions.
21. The method according to claim 1, wherein: (i) the first measure, the second measure, and the third measure are compared and the global uncertainty is set to a value of the three measures, which represents a least degree of confidence, or (99) the global uncertainty is determined based on an average or weighted sum of the first measure, the second measure, and the third measure.
22. The method according to claim 1, wherein an at least partially automated robot is controlled based on the global uncertainty.
23. The method according to claim 22, wherein the at least partially automated robot is an at least partly automated car.
24. The method according to claim 22, wherein a path planning of the robot is based on the global uncertainty, so that areas of high uncertainty, compared to a predefined threshold, are avoided when controlling the robot by maintaining a predefined distance to these areas.
25. A non-transitory computer-readable medium on which is stored a computer program including instructions for estimating a global uncertainty of output data of a computer implemented main neural network, the computer program, when executed by a compute, causing the computer to perform the following steps: determining a first measure which quantifies to which extent current input data of the main neural network is following the same distribution as data which was used for training the main neural network; generating a second measure which quantifies the main neural network's certainty in its own prediction based on the current input data; ascertaining a third measure, based on an estimation of class-discriminative features in the input data and a comparison of these features with a class activation probability distribution; and determining the global uncertainty based on at least two measures out of the first measure, the second measure, and the third measure.
</claims>
</document>
