<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/25,G06K9/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IQLECT Software Solutions Pvt. Ltd.
</assignee>

<inventors>
SINHA, SACHIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73744635
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING DATA ANALYTIC SOLUTIONS TO THIRD PARTY ENTITIES
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides a system for providing one or more data analytics solutions to one or more third party entities. The one or more data analytics solutions are provided after extraction of meaningful and organized insights from unstructured data. The extraction is done for conversion of the unstructured data into structured data. The system receives a domain data from the administrator. Further, the system collects a first set of data from one or more sources. Furthermore, the system tokenizes the first set of data into one or more tokens to extract one or more patterns. Moreover, the system re-structures the one or more tokens based on authenticity of the one or more patterns extracted from the one or more tokens. The restructuring of the one or more tokens is performed to convert the unstructured data into the structured data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for providing one or more data analytics solutions to one or more third party entities, wherein the one or more data analytics solutions are provided after extraction of meaningful and organized insights from unstructured data, wherein the extraction is done for conversion of the unstructured data into structured data, the computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, at a data structuring system with a processor, a domain data from an administrator, wherein the domain data comprises data associated with domain of interest of the administrator, wherein the domain data is received from the administrator in real-time; collecting, at the data structuring system with the processor, a first set of data from one or more sources, wherein the first set of data is collected based on the domain data received from the administrator, wherein the first set of data is collected to train the data structuring system with the domain of interest of the administrator, wherein the data structuring system is trained in a plurality of steps in real-time; tokenizing, at the data structuring system with the processor, the first set of data into one or more tokens, wherein the tokenization is performed to extract one or more patterns from the first set of data, wherein the one or more patterns are extracted using one or more hardware-run pattern recognition algorithms; and re-structuring, at the data structuring system with the processor, the one or more tokens based on authenticity of the one or more patterns extracted from the one or more tokens in real-time, wherein the restructuring of the one or more tokens is performed based on one or more conditions, wherein the restructuring of the one or more tokens is performed based on an associated confidence level with the one or more patterns extracted from the one or more tokens, wherein the restructuring of the one or more tokens is performed to convert the unstructured data into the structured data.
2. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein the one or more sources comprising one of at least an enterprise data source, an application, a third-party database, one or more online knowledgebase, one or more offline knowledgebase, an input device, a scanner, and a hardware computing device.
3. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of steps further comprising: determining sub-domains from the received domain data from the administrator, wherein the sub-domains are determined by the data structuring system; determining source address of the one or more sources of the first set of data based on the determined sub-domains, wherein the source address is determined to fetch complete web content from the determined source address of the one or more sources; and generating relevant content from the determined source address of the one or more sources of the first set of data, wherein the relevant content is generated through the data structuring system.
4. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein the one or more conditions comprising checking relationship between the one or more tokens, finding conditional dependencies between the one or more tokens and finding associations between the one or more tokens.
5. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein the first set of data comprising complete data collected from the one or more sources based on the received domain data, wherein the first set of data is in one of at least structured or unstructured form.
6. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein the confidence level associated with the one or more patterns extracted from the one or more tokens is updated in real-time, wherein the confidence level associated with the one or more patterns extracted from the one or more tokens is updated until the confidence level associated with the one or more patterns extracted from the one or more tokens is greater than a threshold confidence level.
7. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein the administrator is a person that operates and maintains the data structuring system, wherein the administrator is associated with the data structuring system or the one or more third party entities, wherein the one or more third party entities comprising one of at least a third-party vendor, third-party solution provider, third-party website, third-party device and third-party application.
8. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein the one or more data analytics solutions comprising one of at least adaptive learning, problem control, maintenance, risk analysis, churn analysis, supply chain, marketing, prediction, forecasting, optimization, segmentation, fraud detection, reporting, finance, forensics, statistics, security, and servicing.
9. A computer system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory coupled to the one or more processors, the memory for storing instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform a method for providing one or more data analytics solutions to one or more third party entities, wherein the one or more data analytics solutions are provided after extraction of meaningful and organized insights from unstructured data, wherein the extraction is done for conversion of the unstructured data into structured data, the method comprising: receiving, at a data structuring system, a domain data from an administrator, wherein the domain data comprises data associated with domain of interest of the administrator, wherein the domain data is received from the administrator in real-time; collecting, at the data structuring system, a first set of data from one or more sources, wherein the first set of data is collected based on the domain data received from the administrator, wherein the first set of data is collected to train the data structuring system with the domain of interest of the administrator, wherein the data structuring system is trained in a plurality of steps in real-time; tokenizing, at the data structuring system, the first set of data into one or more tokens, wherein the tokenization is performed to extract one or more patterns from the first set of data, wherein the one or more patterns are extracted using one or more hardware-run pattern recognition algorithms; and re-structuring, at the data structuring system, the one or more tokens based on authenticity of the one or more patterns extracted from the one or more tokens in real-time, wherein the restructuring of the one or more tokens is performed based on one or more conditions, wherein the restructuring of the one or more tokens is performed based on an associated confidence level with the one or more patterns extracted from the one or more tokens, wherein the restructuring of the one or more tokens is performed to convert the unstructured data into the structured data.
10. The computer system as recited in claim 9, wherein the one or more sources comprising one of at least an enterprise data source, an application, a third-party database, one or more online knowledgebase, one or more offline knowledgebase, an input device, a scanner, and a hardware computing device.
11. The computer system as recited in claim 9, wherein the plurality of steps further comprising: determining sub-domains from the received domain data from the administrator, wherein the sub-domains are determined by the data structuring system; determining source address of the one or more sources of the first set of data based on the determined sub-domains, wherein the source address is determined to fetch complete web content from the determined source address of the one or more sources; and generating relevant content from the determined source address of the one or more sources of the first set of data, wherein the relevant content is generated through the data structuring system.
12. The computer system as recited in claim 9, wherein the one or more conditions comprising checking relationship between the one or more tokens, finding conditional dependencies between the one or more tokens and finding associations between the one or more tokens.
13. The computer system as recited in claim 9, wherein the first set of data comprising complete data collected from the one or more sources based on the received domain data, wherein the first set of data is in one of at least structured or unstructured form.
14. The computer system as recited in claim 9, wherein the confidence level associated with the one or more patterns extracted from the one or more tokens is updated in real-time, wherein the confidence level associated with the one or more patterns extracted from the one or more tokens is updated until the confidence level associated with the one or more patterns extracted from the one or more tokens is greater than a threshold confidence level.
15. The computer system as recited in claim 9, wherein the administrator is a person that operates and maintains the data structuring system, wherein the administrator is associated with the data structuring system or the one or more third party entities, wherein the one or more third party entities comprising one of at least a third-party vendor, third-party solution provider, third-party website, third-party device and third-party application.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium encoding computer executable instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, performs a method for providing one or more data analytics solutions to one or more third party entities, wherein the one or more data analytics solutions are provided after extraction of meaningful and organized insights from unstructured data, wherein the extraction is done for conversion of the unstructured data into structured data, the method comprising: receiving, at a computing device, a domain data from an administrator, wherein the domain data comprises data associated with domain of interest of the administrator, wherein the domain data is received from the administrator in real-time; collecting, at the computing device, a first set of data from one or more sources, wherein the first set of data is collected based on the domain data received from the administrator, wherein the first set of data is collected to train the data structuring system with the domain of interest of the administrator, wherein the data structuring system is trained in a plurality of steps in real-time; tokenizing, at the computing device, the first set of data into one or more tokens, wherein the tokenization is performed to extract one or more patterns from the first set of data, wherein the one or more patterns are extracted using one or more hardware-run pattern recognition algorithms; and re-structuring, at the computing device, the one or more tokens based on authenticity of the one or more patterns extracted from the one or more tokens in real-time, wherein the restructuring of the one or more tokens is performed based on one or more conditions, wherein the restructuring of the one or more tokens is performed based on an associated confidence level with the one or more patterns extracted from the one or more tokens, wherein the restructuring of the one or more tokens is performed to convert the unstructured data into the structured data.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein the one or more sources comprising at least an enterprise data source, an application, a third-party database, one or more online knowledgebase, one or more offline knowledgebase, an input device, a scanner, and a hardware computing device.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein the plurality of steps further comprising: determining sub-domains from the received domain data from the administrator, wherein the sub-domains are determined by the data structuring system; determining source address of the one or more sources of the first set of data based on the determined sub-domains, wherein the source address is determined to fetch complete web content from the determined source address of the one or more sources; and generating relevant content from the determined source address of the one or more sources of the first set of data, wherein the relevant content is generated through the data structuring system.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein the one or more conditions comprising checking relationship between the one or more tokens, finding conditional dependencies between the one or more tokens and finding associations between the one or more tokens.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein the confidence level associated with the one or more patterns extracted from the one or more tokens is updated in real-time, wherein the confidence level associated with the one or more patterns extracted from the one or more tokens is updated until the confidence level associated with the one or more patterns extracted from the one or more tokens is greater than a threshold confidence level.
</claims>
</document>
