<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/29,G06F16/583,G06F3/048,G06K9/00,G06T19/00,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BRNO UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, ZHILI
BREJCHA, JAN
CADIK, MARTIN
Luká{hacek over (u)}, Michal
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69946421
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Generating immersive trip photograph visualizations
</title>

<abstract>
A user selects a set of photographs from a trip through an environment that he or she desires to present to other people. A collection of photographs, including the set of photographs captured during the trip optionally augmented with additional photographs obtained from another collection, are combined with a terrain model (e.g., a digital elevation model) to extract information regarding the geographic location of each of the photographs within the environment. The collection of photographs are analyzed, considering their geolocation information as well as the photograph content to register the photographs relative to one another. This information for the photographs is compared to the terrain model in order to accurately position the viewpoint for each photograph within the environment. A presentation of the selected photographs within the environment is generated that displays both the selected photographs and synthetic data filled in beyond the edges of the selected photographs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. In a digital medium generation environment, a method implemented by at least one computing device, the method comprising: obtaining a set of photographs taken on a trip in which a user followed a path through a geographical area; receiving an indication of the geographical area where the set of photographs were captured; determining both a location and an orientation of ones of the set of photographs within a three dimensional terrain model of the geographical area; receiving an indication of user-selected photographs of the set of photographs; and generating a fly-through view through the three dimensional terrain model, the fly-through view along the path through the geographical area, the fly-through view including each of the user-selected photographs as well as data from the three dimensional terrain model that fills in data beyond the user-selected photographs.
2. The method as described in claim 1, wherein the determining comprises: determining whether the set of photographs includes at least a threshold number of photographs that capture a particular area on the trip; and augmenting the set of images with one or more additional images in response to the set of photographs not including at least the threshold number of photographs that capture the particular are on the trip.
3. The method as described in claim 1, wherein the determining comprises: extracting visual features from each photograph in the set of photographs; determining, based on the visual features, both three dimensional location information and orientation information for each photograph in the set of photographs; reconstructing terrain represented in the set of images by generating a point cloud from the set of images; and aligning the reconstructed terrain with the terrain model to fine-tune the dimensional location information and the orientation information for each photograph in the set of photographs.
4. The method as described in claim 3, wherein the reconstructing comprises using a structure from motion pipeline to generate the point cloud.
5. The method as described in claim 1, wherein receiving the indication of the geographical area comprises receiving a selection of the geographic area from the user.
6. The method as described in claim 1, wherein generating the fly-through view comprises determining the path through the geographical area based on locations where the user-selected photographs were captured.
7. The method as described in claim 6, wherein determining the path comprises using a Catmull-Rom spline with the locations of each of the user-selected photographs as control points.
8. The method as described in claim 1, wherein generating the fly-through view comprises using as the path through the geographical area an actual path followed by the user based on GPS location data obtained during the trip.
9. The method as described in claim 1, wherein generating the fly-through view comprises determining, as the fly-through view progresses from a first location on the path where a first photograph of the set of photographs was captured to a second location on the path where a second photograph of the set of photographs was captured, a camera orientation by interpolating the camera orientation associated with the photograph captured at the first location and the camera orientation associated with the photograph captured at the second location.
10. The method as described in claim 1, the fly-through view comprising images generated from the terrain model between locations along the path where user-selected photographs were captured.
11. The method as described in claim 10, the fly-through view comprising a passive fly-through view in which at each location where a user-selected photograph was captured, the user-selected photograph is displayed and an area beyond the user-selected photograph is filled in with data from the terrain model.
12. The method as described in claim 10, the fly-through view comprising an interactive fly-through view in which at each location where a user-selected photograph was captured, the user-selected photograph is displayed and a viewer can look around the location in a 360 degree view.
13. In a digital medium generation environment, a device comprising: one or more processors; one or more computer-readable storage media having stored thereon multiple instructions that, in response to execution by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: obtain a set of photographs taken on a trip in which a user followed a path through a geographical area; receive an indication of the geographical area where the set of photographs were captured; determine both a location and an orientation of ones of the set of photographs within a three dimensional terrain model of the geographical area; receive an indication of user-selected photographs of the set of photographs; and generate a fly-through view through the three dimensional terrain model, the fly-through view along the path through the geographical area, the fly-through view including each of the user-selected photographs as well as data from the three dimensional terrain model that fills in data beyond the user-selected photographs.
14. The device as described in claim 13, wherein the multiple instructions that cause the one or more processors to determine both the location and the orientation of ones of the set of photographs comprise instructions that cause the one or more processors to: extract visual features from each photograph in the set of photographs; determine, based on the visual features, both three dimensional location information and orientation information for each photograph in the set of photographs; reconstruct terrain represented in the set of images by generating a point cloud from the set of images; and align the reconstructed terrain with the terrain model to fine-tune the dimensional location information and the orientation information for each photograph in the set of photographs.
15. The device as described in claim 13, wherein the fly-through view comprises images generated from the terrain model between locations along the path where user-selected photographs were captured, and wherein the fly-through view comprises a passive fly-through view in which at each location where a user-selected photograph was captured, the user-selected photograph is displayed and an area beyond the user-selected photograph is filled in with data from the terrain model.
16. The device as described in claim 13, wherein the fly-through view comprises images generated from the terrain model between locations along the path where user-selected photographs were captured, and wherein the fly-through view comprises an interactive fly-through view in which at each location where a user-selected photograph was captured, the user-selected photograph is displayed and a viewer can look around the location in a 360 degree view.
17. In a digital medium generation environment, a system comprising: means for obtaining a set of photographs taken on a trip in which a user followed a path through a geographical area; means for receiving an indication of the geographical area where the set of photographs were captured; means for determining both a location and an orientation of ones of the set of photographs within a three dimensional terrain model of the geographical area; means for receiving an indication of user-selected photographs of the set of photographs; and means for generating a fly-through view through the three dimensional terrain model, the fly-through view along the path through the geographical area, the fly-through view including each of the user-selected photographs as well as data from the three dimensional terrain model that fills in data beyond the user-selected photographs.
18. The system as described in claim 17, wherein the means for determining comprises: means for extracting visual features from each photograph in the set of photographs; means for determining, based on the visual features, both three dimensional location information and orientation information for each photograph in the set of photographs; means for reconstructing terrain represented in the set of images by generating a point cloud from the set of images; and means for aligning the reconstructed terrain with the terrain model to fine-tune the dimensional location information and the orientation information for each photograph in the set of photographs.
19. The system as described in claim 17, wherein the fly-through view comprises images generated from the terrain model between locations along the path where user-selected photographs were captured, and wherein the fly-through view comprises a passive fly-through view in which at each location where a user-selected photograph was captured, the user-selected photograph is displayed and an area beyond the user-selected photograph is filled in with data from the terrain model.
20. The system as described in claim 17, wherein the fly-through view comprises images generated from the terrain model between locations along the path where user-selected photographs were captured, and wherein the fly-through view comprises an interactive fly-through view in which at each location where a user-selected photograph was captured, the user-selected photograph is displayed and a viewer can look around the location in a 360 degree view.
</claims>
</document>
