<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N35/00,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS HEALTHCARE DIAGNOSTICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
POLLACK, BENJAMIN S.
WISSMANN, PATRICK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65016368
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
STRAY LIGHT COMPENSATING METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR CHARACTERIZING A SPECIMEN
</title>

<abstract>
A quality check module for characterizing a specimen and/or a specimen container including stray light compensation. The quality check module includes an imaging location within the quality check module configured to receive a specimen container containing a specimen, one or more image capture devices configured to capture images of the imaging location from one or more viewpoints, and one or more light sources configured to provide back lighting for the one or more image capture devices, and one or more stray light patches located in an area receiving stray light from the one or more light sources enabling stray light affecting the images to be compensated for and to provide a stray light compensated image. Calibration methods, methods of characterizing a specimen, specimen testing apparatus including a quality check module, and specimen container carriers including
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A quality check module, comprising: an imaging location within the quality check module configured to receive a specimen container containing a specimen; one or more image capture devices configured to capture images of the imaging location from one or more viewpoints; one or more light sources configured to provide back lighting for the one or more image capture devices; and one or more stray light patches located in an area receiving stray light from the one or more light sources.
2. The quality check module of claim 1, wherein the one or more light sources are spectrally-switchable between at least two light spectra.
3. The quality check module of claim 1, wherein the one or more stray light patches are provided on a carrier holding the specimen container.
4. The quality check module of claim 3, wherein the one or more stray light patches are provided on one or more tines of the carrier holding the specimen container.
5. The quality check module of claim 3, wherein the one or more stray light patches comprise a location within a view window of the one or more image capture devices.
6. The quality check module of claim 3, comprising a plurality of stray light patches provided on the carrier.
7. The quality check module of claim 3, comprising a plurality of image capture devices, and wherein the one or more stray light patches comprise at least one stray light patch within a view window of each of the plurality of image capture devices.
8. The quality check module of claim 1, comprising an enclosure forming an imaging chamber enclosing at least some of a space including the imaging location, and one or more imaging devices that reside outside of the imaging chamber.
9. The quality check module of claim 1, wherein the one or more stray light patches are provided on a stationary support not coupled to a carrier supporting the specimen container.
10. The quality check module of claim 1, wherein the one or more stray light patches are provided on a movable support that is not coupled to a carrier supporting the specimen container.
11. The quality check module of claim 10, wherein the movable support is configured to move from a first location remote from the imaging location to a second location adjacent to the imaging location wherein imaging takes place when the movable support is located at the second location.
12. The quality check module of claim 1, wherein the one or more stray light patches are provided on the specimen container, on a cap of the specimen container, or both.
13. The quality check module of claim 1, wherein the one or more stray light patches are provided on a label on the specimen container.
14. The quality check module of claim 1, wherein the one or more stray light patches are located directly adjacent to the specimen container during imaging.
15. The quality check module of claim 1, wherein the one or more stray light patches are located within 30 mm of the specimen container during imaging.
16. The quality check module of claim 1, wherein each one of the one or more stray light patches contain an exposed patch area of at least 1 mm2.
17. The quality check module of claim 1, wherein one or more of the stray light patches comprise a white-colored surface.
18. The quality check module of claim 1, comprising a computer configured to determine a stray light compensated image based at least upon a stray light intensity ﾏ…,b at the one or more stray light patches.
19. A quality check module, comprising: an imaging location configured to receive a specimen container containing a specimen; an image capture device configured to capture images of the specimen container and specimen at the imaging location; a light source located adjacent to the imaging location and configured to provide back lighting for the image capture device; a stray light patch located in an area receiving stray light from the light source; and a computer configured to determine a stray light compensated image based at least upon a stray light intensity ﾏ…,b at the one or more stray light patch.
20. The quality check module of claim 19, wherein the computer is configured and operable to determine a spatially-resolved optical correction factor.
21. The quality check module of claim 19, wherein the computer is configured and operable to determine a calibration image Intensity, Ic,b of a front side of a calibration object.
22. A calibration method, comprising: providing an imaging location, an image capture device on a front side of the imaging location, and a backlight source on a second side of the imaging location opposite the front side; providing a calibration object at the imaging location; providing a stray light patch adjacent to the imaging location; illuminating the imaging location and the calibration object with the backlight source; capturing with the image capture device, an image of the front side of the calibration object and of the stray light patch; and determining a stray light intensity ﾏ…,b of the stray light patch and calibration image intensity, Ic,b of the front side of the calibration object.
23. A calibration method of claim 22, comprising determining an optical correction factor.
24. A calibration method of claim 23, comprising using the stray light intensity ﾏ…,b, the calibration image intensity Ic,b, and the optical correction factor to determine a stray light compensated image.
25. A characterization method, comprising: providing a specimen container containing a specimen at an imaging location; providing one or more image capture devices configured to capture images at the imaging location; back lighting the imaging location with one or more light sources; providing a stray light patch located in an area receiving stray light from the one or more light sources; capturing an image of the specimen container, the specimen, and the stray light patch with the one or more image capture devices; and determining a stray light compensated image.
26. A specimen container carrier, comprising: a carrier base; support elements coupled to the carrier base forming a receptacle adapted to receive a specimen container therein; and one or more stray light patches provided on the specimen container carrier.
27. The specimen container carrier of claim 26, wherein a stray light patch of the one or more stray light patches may be configured in a fixed orientation relative to a data-code provided on the specimen container carrier.
28. The specimen container carrier of claim 26, wherein the support elements comprise a plurality of tines extending from the carrier base, and one or more springs coupled to the carrier base, wherein the plurality of tines and the one or more springs are configured to form the receptacle.
29. The specimen container carrier of claim 28, wherein the one or more stray light patches are provided on: at least one tine of the plurality of tines, or on a patch support coupled to the carrier base.
30. The specimen container carrier of claim 29, wherein at least one tine of the plurality of tines includes a side and thinner end, and a stray light patch of the one or more stray light patches may be provided on the thinner end of the at least one tine.
31. The specimen container carrier of claim 29, comprising at least one short tine and at least one long tine wherein a height of the short tine is shorter in height than the long tine.
32. The specimen container carrier of claim 31, wherein the height of the long tine is between 25 mm and 75 mm in height from a top of the carrier base to a top of the long tine.
33. The specimen container carrier of claim 31, wherein the height of the short tine is selected to be short enough so as to not to impeded imaging of a serum or plasma portion contained in the specimen container.
34. The specimen container carrier of claim 33, wherein the height of the short tine is between 5 mm and 25 mm in height from a top of the carrier base to a top of the short tine.
35. The specimen container carrier of claim 29, wherein one stray light patch of the one or more stray light patches is provided on a side of the tine and provided at a height location determined to be adjacent to a height within the specimen container that contains serum or plasma portion.
36. The specimen container carrier of claim 29, wherein one stray light patch of the one or more stray light patches is provided on a side of the tine at a location that is capable of being imaged by an image capture device.
37. The specimen container carrier of claim 26, wherein one stray light patch of the one or more stray light patches is provided on a patch support of the specimen container carrier.
</claims>
</document>
