<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-11-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERINT AMERICAS
</assignee>

<inventors>
WATSON, JOSEPH
MCCREESH, MARTIN
STERN, OREN
NIES, JAMES G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
50728824
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USE OF ANALYTICS METHODS FOR PERSONALIZED GUIDANCE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods of automated personalized guidance include the evaluation of interaction content data. At least one automated guidance is assigned to an agent based upon the evaluation. The automated guidance is defined by at least one interaction type and at least one guidance trigger. Interaction content data is monitored to identify instances of the interaction type and the guidance trigger. Upon identification of the interaction type and the guidance trigger, the automated guidance is automatically provided. The automated guidance is then evaluated based upon the interaction content data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A computer-implemented method of assigning and removing automated guidance for a specific agent, the method comprising: receiving, by a processor, a set of customer service interactions, wherein the customer service interactions are between the specific agent and a customer; analyzing, by the processor, the set of customer service interactions to create a set of metrics pertaining to the specific agent; based on the set of metrics, identifying, by the processor, all deviations from a set of performance standards for the specific agent; for each identified deviation, automatedly assigning, by the processor, at least one automated guidance to the specific agent; continuously monitoring, by the processor, new interactions for the specific agent to identify guidance triggers; displaying, to the specific agent, by the processor, at least automated guidance assigned to the specific agent when the identified guidance trigger for the assigned automated guidance occurs in the new interaction; continuing to monitor, by the processor, new interactions for the specific agent to measure the specific agent's execution of the displayed guidance; based on the continued monitoring, determining, by the processor, if any of the identified deviations from the set of performance standards have been corrected by the specific agent; and removing, by the processor, the assigned automated guidance from the specific agent for each corrected deviation.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the determination of the correction of identified deviations from the set of performance standards includes comparing the new interactions to the set of performance standards.
23. The method of claim 21, the method further comprising determining an interaction type of each interaction of the received set of interactions.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the at least one automated guidance assigned is based on the interaction type of the interaction that the deviation was identified
25. The method of claim 21, the method further comprising determining an interaction type for the new interactions, wherein the guidance trigger is based on the determined interaction type for the new interaction.
26. A system for assigning and removing automated guidance for a specific agent, the system comprising: a processor; a display with a user interface to display assigned automated guidance; and a non-transitory computer readable medium programmed with computer readable code that upon execution by the processor causes the processor to: receive a set of customer service interactions, wherein the customer service interactions are between the specific agent and a customer; analyze the set of customer service interactions to create a set of metrics pertaining to the specific agent; based on the set of metrics, identify all deviations from a set of performance standards for the specific agent; for each identified deviation, automatedly assign at least one automated guidance to the specific agent; continuously monitor new interactions for the specific agent to identify guidance triggers; display, to the specific agent at least automated guidance assigned to the specific agent when the identified guidance trigger for the assigned automated guidance occurs in the new interaction; continue to monitor new interactions for the specific agent to measure the specific agent's execution of the displayed guidance; based on the continued monitoring, determine if any of the identified deviations from the set of performance standards have been corrected by the specific agent; and remove the assigned automated guidance from the specific agent for each corrected deviation.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the determination of the correction of identified deviations from the set of performance standards includes comparing the new interactions to the set of performance standards.
28. The system of claim 26, wherein the processor is further caused to determine an interaction type of each interaction of the received set of interactions.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the at least one automated guidance assigned is based on the interaction type of the interaction that the deviation was identified
30. The system of claim 26, wherein the processor is further caused to determine an interaction type for the new interactions, wherein the guidance trigger is based on the determined interaction type for the new interaction.
31. A computer-implemented method for assigning and removing automated guidance based on detecting at least one emerging topic or trend, the method comprising: providing an automated guidance system, wherein at least one automated guidance is assigned to at least one agent, wherein the assignment of the at least one automated guidance is based on a determination by the processor that the agent deviated from a predetermined performance standard of a set of predetermined performance standards for an interaction type of the interaction that the deviation was detected, wherein the automated guidance is provided, by the processor, to the agent when the processor identifies, in an interaction with the agent to which the guidance is assigned, a guidance trigger associated with the assigned automated guidance; continuously monitoring, by the processor, new interactions involving the at least one agent to identify at least one new emerging topic or trend in the new interaction; based on the identified at least one new emerging topic or trend, creating, by the processor, a new performance standard, wherein the new performance standard is added to the set of predetermined performance standards; continuing to monitor, by the processor, the new interactions involving the at least one agent to evaluate the new interactions against the predetermined performance standards, including the newly added performance standard, to determine if any of the automated guidance assigned to the at least one agent should be unassigned; and unassigning, by the processor, at least one previously assigned automated guidance from the at least one agent based on the determination that one of the predetermined performance standards has been corrected.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein the determination that one of the predetermined performance standards has been corrected includes comparing the new interaction to the set of performance standards.
33. The method of claim 31, wherein the automated guidance is a textual message presented on a graphical display.
34. The method of claim 31, wherein the automated guidance comprises automatedly opening an object in a workstation.
35. The method of claim 31, wherein the guidance trigger is based on the interaction type for the interaction.
36. A system for assigning and removing automated guidance based on detecting at least one emerging topic or trend, the system comprising: a processor; a display with a user interface to display assigned automated guidance; and a non-transitory computer readable medium programmed with computer readable code that upon execution by the processor causes the processor to: provide an automated guidance system, wherein at least one automated guidance is assigned to at least one agent, wherein the assignment of the at least one automated guidance is based on a determination that the agent deviated from a predetermined performance standard of a set of predetermined performance standards for an interaction type of the interaction that the deviation was detected, wherein the automated guidance is provided to the agent when the processor identifies, in an interaction with the agent to which the guidance is assigned, a guidance trigger associated with the assigned automated guidance; continuously monitor new interactions involving the at least one agent to identify at least one new emerging topic or trend in the new interaction; based on the identified at least one new emerging topic or trend, create a new performance standard, wherein the new performance standard is added to the set of predetermined performance standards; continue to monitor the new interactions involving the at least one agent to evaluate the new interactions against the predetermined performance standards, including the newly added performance standard, to determine if any of the automated guidance assigned to the at least one agent should be unassigned; and unassign at least one previously assigned automated guidance from the at least one agent based on the determination that one of the predetermined performance standards has been corrected.
37. The system of claim 36, wherein the determination that one of the predetermined performance standards has been corrected includes comparing the new interaction to the set of performance standards.
38. The system of claim 36, wherein the automated guidance is a textual message presented on a graphical display.
39. The system of claim 36, wherein the automated guidance comprises automatedly opening an object in a workstation.
40. The system of claim 36, wherein the guidance trigger is based on the interaction type for the interaction.
</claims>
</document>
