<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/355,A63F13/358,G06N20/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ELECTRONIC ARTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
AGHDAIE, NAVID
ZAMAN, KAZI ATIF-UZ
MOSS, KENNETH ALAN
CHAPUT, HAROLD HENRY
KOLEN, JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606700
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTIVE EXECUTION OF DISTRIBUTED GAME ENGINES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems described herein may automatically and dynamically adjust the amount and type of computing resources usable to execute, process, or perform various tasks associated with a video game. Using one or more machine learning algorithms, a prediction model can be generated that uses the historical and/or current user interaction data obtained by monitoring the users playing the video game. Based on the historical and/or current user interaction data, future user interactions likely to be performed in the future can be predicted. Using the predictions of the users' future interactions, the amount and type of computing resources maintained in the systems can be adjusted such that a proper balance between reducing the consumption of computing resources and reducing the latency experienced by the users of the video game is achieved and maintained.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: as implemented by an interactive computing system configured with specific computer-executable instructions, causing a set of computing resources to be provided, the set of computing resources being usable to execute one or more tasks within a video game in response to user interactions associated with a plurality of users interacting with the video game; receiving user interaction data indicative of a set of user interactions associated with one or more of the plurality of users; using a first prediction model, determining a set of predicted user interactions based at least on the user interaction data; determining, based at least on the set of predicted user interactions, a set of predicted computing resources to perform tasks triggered by the set of predicted user interactions; causing the set of computing resources to be adjusted based at least on the set of predicted computing resources; and performing one or more tasks triggered by user interactions with the video game using the adjusted set of computing resources.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising generating the first prediction model at least by: accessing first user interaction data indicative of a first set of user interactions associated with two or more users of the plurality of users, wherein at least some of the user interactions in the first set are performed by the same user; and using one or more machine learning algorithms to determine the first prediction model based at least on the first user interaction data.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of predicted computing resources is determined using a second prediction model different from the first prediction model.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising generating the second prediction model at least by: accessing (i) second user interaction data indicative of a second set of user interactions associated with two or more users of the plurality of users and (ii) computing resource data indicative of a first set of computing resources; and using one or more machine learning algorithms to determine the second prediction model based at least on the second user interaction data and the computing resource data.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more tasks comprise one or more of collision detection, ray tracing, image rendering, special effects generation, animation generation, speech content generation, text content generation, haptic content generation, and physics simulation.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of predicted computing resources comprises a number of virtual machine instances to be acquired for processing the tasks triggered by the set of predicted user interactions.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of predicted computing resources comprises a number of microservices to be loaded onto one or more virtual machine instances or virtual containers, wherein the microservices are configured to execute tasks to be triggered by performance of the set of predicted user interactions.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of predicted computing resources comprises a set of files to be loaded onto one or more virtual machine instances or virtual containers for use by one or more microservices configured to execute tasks to be triggered by performance of the set of predicted user interactions.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving additional user interaction data indicative of a set of additional user interactions associated with one or more of the plurality of users interacting with the video game; and further adjusting the adjusted set of computing resources based at least on the additional user interaction data.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the number of users in the plurality of users interacting with the game simultaneously is in the order of hundreds of thousands of users or greater.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the second prediction model comprises a mapping table associating one or more user interactions to one or more microservices to be executed to provide corresponding virtual user experiences in response to the one or more user interactions.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining one or more latency values associated with a type of user interaction in the video game; and based at least on the one or more latency values, modifying the second prediction model such that the modified second prediction model would cause a greater amount of computing resources to be provisioned for the type of user interaction than the second prediction model prior to the modification.
13. A system comprising: an electronic data store configured to store user interaction data associated with a video game; and a hardware processor in communication with the electronic data store, the hardware processor configured to execute specific computer-executable instructions to at least: cause a set of computing resources to be provided, the set of computing resources being usable to execute one or more tasks within the video game in response to specific user interactions associated with a plurality of users interacting with the video game; receive user interaction data indicative of a set of user interactions associated with one or more of the plurality of users; using a first prediction model, determine a set of predicted user interactions based at least on the user interaction data; determine, based at least on the set of predicted user interactions, a set of predicted computing resources to perform tasks triggered by the set of predicted user interactions; cause the set of computing resources to be adjusted based at least on the set of predicted computing resources; and cause the adjusted set of computing resources to perform one or more tasks triggered by user interactions with the video game.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the set of predicted computing resources comprises a combination of a number of virtual machine instances to be acquired for processing the tasks triggered by the set of predicted user interactions and a number of microservices to be loaded onto one or more of such virtual machine instances or virtual containers created thereon.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to execute the specific computer-executable instructions to: receive additional user interaction data indicative of a set of additional user interactions associated with one or more of the plurality of users interacting with the video game; and cause the adjusted set of computing resources to be further adjusted based at least on the additional user interaction data.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to execute the specific computer-executable instructions to: determine one or more latency values associated with a type of user interaction in the video game; and based at least on the one or more latency values, modify the second prediction model such that the modified second prediction model would cause a greater amount of computing resources to be provisioned for the type of user interaction than the second prediction model prior to the modification.
17. Non-transitory physical computer storage storing specific computer-executable instructions that, when executed by one or more hardware computing devices, cause the hardware computing devices to at least: cause a set of computing resources to be provided, the set of computing resources being usable to execute one or more tasks within a video game in response to specific user interactions associated with a plurality of users interacting with the video game; receive user interaction data indicative of a set of user interactions associated with one or more of the plurality of users; using a first prediction model, determine a set of predicted user interactions based at least on the user interaction data; determine, based at least on the set of predicted user interactions, a set of predicted computing resources to perform tasks triggered by the set of predicted user interactions; cause the set of computing resources to be adjusted based at least on the set of predicted computing resources; and cause the adjusted set of computing resources to perform one or more tasks triggered by user interactions with the video game.
18. The non-transitory physical computer storage of claim 17, wherein the set of predicted computing resources comprises a combination of a number of virtual machine instances to be acquired for processing the tasks triggered by the set of predicted user interactions and a number of microservices to be loaded onto one or more of such virtual machine instances or virtual containers created thereon.
19. The non-transitory physical computer storage of claim 17, wherein the specific computer-executable instructions further cause the one or more hardware computing devices to: receive additional user interaction data indicative of a set of additional user interactions associated with one or more of the plurality of users interacting with the video game; and cause the adjusted set of computing resources to be further adjusted based at least on the additional user interaction data.
20. The non-transitory physical computer storage of claim 17, wherein the specific computer-executable instructions further cause the one or more hardware computing devices to: determine one or more latency values associated with a type of user interaction in the video game; and based at least on the one or more latency values, modify the second prediction model such that the modified second prediction model would cause a greater amount of computing resources to be provisioned for the type of user interaction than the second prediction model prior to the modification.
</claims>
</document>
