<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/951
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KLEBER, MICHAEL
GAGNE, MATHIEU
BURRIESCI, MATTHEW STRECKER
GUARINO, JONATHAN FRANK
MAOR, GUY
GERMAN, DAVID KENT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67988636
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SERVING MULTIPLE CONTENT ITEMS RESPONSIVE TO A SINGLE REQUEST
</title>

<abstract>
When a client device loads a resource, a request for a first content item for a first content item slot is transmitted to a content item selection system. The content item selection system uses a predictive model to determine a predicted content item slot based on a document object model position of the first content item slot and a URL of the resource or a publisher identifier. Parameters for the predicted content item slot are used to select a subsequent content item for the predicted content item slot. The first content item and the subsequent content item are transmitted to the client device responsive to the request. The subsequent content item includes metadata indicative of the parameters of the predicted content item slot to be matched to a subsequent content item slot of the resource.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A method for serving multiple content items responsive to a single content item request comprising: receiving, by one or more data processors, a request for a first content item for a first content item slot of a resource, the request including parameters for the first content item slot and a parameter indicating the request is for one or more serialized content items; selecting, using one or more data processors, a first content item based on the parameters for the first content item slot; determining, using one or more data processors and responsive to the parameter indicating the request for the first content item is for one or more serialized content items, a predicted subsequent content item slot; determining, using one or more data processors, one or more parameters for the predicted subsequent content item slot responsive to determining the predicted subsequent content item slot; selecting, using one or more data processors, a subsequent content item for the predicted subsequent content item slot based on the determined one or more parameters for the predicted subsequent content item slot; and transmitting, responsive to the request for the first content item, data to effect presentation of the selected first content item, data to effect presentation of the subsequent content item for the predicted subsequent content item slot, and metadata associated with the subsequent content item, the metadata indicative of the one or more parameters for the predicted subsequent content item slot.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the indexing value is further based on a URL for the resource.
23. The method of claim 21, wherein the indexing value is further based on a publisher identifier for the resource.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein selecting the first content item based on the parameters for the first content item slot and selecting the subsequent content item for the predicted subsequent content item slot are performed in parallel.
25. The method of claim 21, further comprising: determining, using one or more data processors, a second predicted subsequent content item slot based on the indexing value and the data structure; determining, using one or more data processors, one or more parameters for the second predicted subsequent content item slot responsive to determining the second predicted subsequent content item slot; and selecting, using one or more data processors, a second subsequent content item for the second predicted subsequent content item slot based on the determined one or more parameters for the second predicted subsequent content item slot.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein selecting the first content item, the subsequent content item, and the second subsequent content item are performed in parallel.
27. The method of claim 21, wherein the first content item and the subsequent content item are from the same third-party.
28. A system for receiving multiple content items responsive to a single content item request comprising: one or more processors; and one or more storage devices storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: transmitting to a content item selection system a request for a first content item for a first content item slot of a resource, the request including parameters for the first content item slot and a parameter indicating the request is for one or more serialized content items, receiving, responsive to the request for the first content item, a first content item for the first content item slot and a subsequent content item, the subsequent content item associated with metadata indicative of the one or more parameters for a predicted subsequent content item slot, wherein the predicted subsequent content item slot is determined responsive to the parameter indicating the request for the first content item is for one or more serialized content items; determining the one or more parameters indicated by the metadata associated with the subsequent content item match parameters of a subsequent content item slot of the resource, and displaying the subsequent content item in the subsequent content item slot without transmitting a separate request to the content item selection system responsive to determining the one or more parameters indicated by the metadata match the parameters of the subsequent content item slot.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the one or more storage devices stores instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations further comprising: generating an ephemeral state frame for the resource, and storing data for the subsequent content item and the associated metadata in the ephemeral state frame.
30. The system of claim 29, wherein the ephemeral state frame is an iframe.
31. The system of claim 29, wherein the ephemeral state frame is generated responsive to execution of a script of the resource.
32. The system of claim 29, wherein the predicted subsequent content item slot is determined based on an indexing value and a data structure.
33. The system of claim 28, wherein the predicted subsequent content item slot is determined based on a predictive model.
34. The system of claim 29, wherein the one or more storage devices stores instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations further comprising: determining a configuration file is included with data for the resource, the configuration file including a parameter indicating subsequent content items are to be returned responsive to the request for a first content item, determining the subsequent content item has not been received, and waiting a predetermined threshold period of time.
35. A computer readable storage device storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving a request for a first content item for a first content item slot of a resource, the request including parameters for the first content item slot and a parameter indicating the request is for one or more serialized content items; selecting a first content item based on the parameters for the first content item slot; determining, responsive to the parameter indicating the request for the first content item is for one or more serialized content items, a predicted subsequent content item slot; determining one or more parameters for the predicted subsequent content item slot; selecting a subsequent content item for the predicted subsequent content item slot based on the determined one or more parameters for the predicted subsequent content item slot; and transmitting, responsive to the request for the first content item, data to effect presentation of the selected first content item, data to effect presentation of the subsequent content item for the predicted subsequent content item slot, and metadata associated with the subsequent content item, the metadata indicative of the one or more parameters for the predicted subsequent content item slot.
36. The computer readable storage device of claim 35, wherein the indexing value is further based on a URL for the resource.
37. The computer readable storage device of claim 35, wherein the indexing value is further based on a publisher identifier for the resource.
38. The computer readable storage device of claim 35, wherein selecting the first content item based on the parameters for the first content item slot and selecting the subsequent content item for the predicted subsequent content item slot are performed in parallel.
39. A method for serving multiple content items responsive to a single content item request comprising: receiving, by one or more data processors, a request for a first content item for a first content item slot of a resource, the request including parameters for the first content item slot and a parameter indicating the request is for one or more serialized content items; selecting, using one or more data processors, a first content item based on the parameters for the first content item slot; determining, using one or more data processors and responsive to the parameter indicating the request for the first content item is for one or more serialized content items, a predicted subsequent content item slot, the predicted subsequent content item slot determined by filtering a predicted subsequent content item slot from the one or more predicted subsequent content item slots of the data structure based on a predetermined threshold value for the one or more probability values; determining, using one or more data processors, one or more parameters for the predicted subsequent content item slot responsive to determining the predicted subsequent content item slot; selecting, using one or more data processors, a subsequent content item for the predicted subsequent content item slot based on the determined one or more parameters for the predicted subsequent content item slot; and transmitting, responsive to the request for the first content item, data to effect presentation of the selected first content item, data to effect presentation of the subsequent content item for the predicted subsequent content item slot, and metadata associated with the subsequent content item, the metadata indicative of the one or more parameters for the predicted subsequent content item slot.
40. A system for receiving multiple content items responsive to a single content item request comprising: one or more processors; and one or more storage devices storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving a request for a first content item for a first content item slot of a resource, the request including parameters for the first content item slot and a parameter indicating the request is for one or more serialized content items; selecting a first content item based on the parameters for the first content item slot; determining, responsive to the parameter indicating the request for the first content item is for one or more serialized content items, a predicted subsequent content item slot, the predicted subsequent content item slot determined by filtering a predicted subsequent content item slot from the one or more predicted subsequent content item slots of the data structure based on a predetermined threshold value for the one or more probability values; determining one or more parameters for the predicted subsequent content item slot responsive to determining the predicted subsequent content item slot; selecting a subsequent content item for the predicted subsequent content item slot based on the determined one or more parameters for the predicted subsequent content item slot; and transmitting, responsive to the request for the first content item, data to effect presentation of the selected first content item, data to effect presentation of the subsequent content item for the predicted subsequent content item slot, and metadata associated with the subsequent content item, the metadata indicative of the one or more parameters for the predicted subsequent content item slot.
</claims>
</document>
