<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06Q20/10,G06Q20/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROYAL BANK OF CANADA
</assignee>

<inventors>
DYLOCO, PHOEBE CHLOE SY
LAU, ALEX TAK KWUN
MAAMARI, RALPH GEORGE
NAVAS, IZAYANA
NG, DOROTHY GING ZI
RAW, JAKE TRAUB
THABET, RAMI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69514031
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM, METHODS, AND DEVICES FOR PAYMENT RECOVERY PLATFORM
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments relate to systems and methods for intercepting potentially erroneous electronic transaction data processing tasks. The system includes a memory and processor configured for: receiving a processing task data set including at least one parameter for executing an electronic transaction data processing task; providing, to a multi-class classifier, an input data set with the at least one parameter for executing the electronic transaction data processing task and at least one data feature associated with a user profile to generate a classification probability output for each class in the multi-class classifier; and when none of the classification probability outputs meet a threshold condition, preventing execution of the electronic transaction data processing task.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented system for intercepting potentially erroneous electronic transaction data processing tasks, the system comprising a processor and a memory storing machine executable instructions to configure the processor for: receiving a processing task data set including at least one parameter for executing an electronic transaction data processing task; providing, to a multi-class classifier, an input data set with the at least one parameter for executing the electronic transaction data processing task and at least one data feature associated with a user profile to generate a classification probability output for each class in the multi-class classifier; and when none of the classification probability outputs meet a threshold condition, preventing execution of the electronic transaction data processing task.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing task data set is received via one or more input fields on an electronic transaction data processing task user interface.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein preventing the execution of the electronic transaction data process task comprises generating signals for outputting a message via the electronic transaction data processing task user interface, the message indicating that at least one aspects of the processing task data set is potentially erroneous.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions configure the processor for: transmitting the electronic transaction data processing task for execution when: at least one of the classification probability outputs meets the threshold condition, or an input is received indicating that the potentially erroneous electronic transaction data processing task is to be executed.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the multi-class classifier is based on an unsupervised clustering on dimensions associated with data fields in the processing task data set or data fields associated with the user profile.
6. The system of claim 5 wherein the electronic transaction data processing task is for executing an electronic bill payment, and wherein the dimensions include at least one of: a payee, a date of bill payment, a payment amount, or a geo-location associated with the user profile.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the multi-class classifier is trained using clusters form the unsupervised clustering as labels.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein when the electronic transaction data processing task is to associate a new payee to the user profile, the instructions to configure the processor for: conducting a proximity search on clusters based on a geo-location associated with the user profile to identify one or more payee names having a highest ranking, and generating signals for displaying the identified one or more payee names more prominently on a user interface for selection.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one data feature associated with a user profile comprises at least one of: a geo-location or a user demographic.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein the instructions configure the processor for: conducting the unsupervised clustering and training the multi-class classifier using the clusters as labels.
11. A method for intercepting potentially erroneous electronic transaction data processing tasks, the method comprising: receiving a processing task data set including at least one parameter for executing an electronic transaction data processing task; providing, to a multi-class classifier, an input data set with the at least one parameter for executing the electronic transaction data processing task and at least one data feature associated with a user profile to generate a classification probability output for each class in the multi-class classifier; and when none of the classification probability outputs meet a threshold condition, preventing execution of the electronic transaction data processing task.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the processing task data set is received via one or more input fields on an electronic transaction data processing task user interface.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein preventing the execution of the electronic transaction data process task comprises generating signals for outputting a message via the electronic transaction data processing task user interface, the message indicating that at least one aspects of the processing task data set is potentially erroneous.
14. The method of claim 11, comprising: transmitting the electronic transaction data processing task for execution when: at least one of the classification probability outputs meets the threshold condition, or an input is received indicating that the potentially erroneous electronic transaction data processing task is to be executed.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the multi-class classifier is based on an unsupervised clustering on dimensions associated with data fields in the processing task data set or data fields associated with the user profile.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein the electronic transaction data processing task is for executing an electronic bill payment, and wherein the dimensions include at least one of: a payee, a date of bill payment, a payment amount, or a geo-location associated with the user profile.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the multi-class classifier is trained using clusters form the unsupervised clustering as labels.
18. The method of claim 11, comprising when the electronic transaction data processing task is to associate a new payee to the user profile: conducting a proximity search on clusters based on a geo-location associated with the user profile to identify one or more payee names having a highest ranking, and generating signals for displaying the identified one or more payee names more prominently on a user interface for selection.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein at least one data feature associated with a user profile comprises at least one of: a geo-location or a user demographic.
20. A computer-readable medium or media having stored thereon machine-interpretable instructions, which when executed by a processor, configured the processor for: receiving a processing task data set including at least one parameter for executing an electronic transaction data processing task; providing, to a multi-class classifier, an input data set with the at least one parameter for executing the electronic transaction data processing task and at least one data feature associated with a user profile to generate a classification probability output for each class in the multi-class classifier; and when none of the classification probability outputs meet a threshold condition, preventing execution of the electronic transaction data processing task.
</claims>
</document>
