<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64D45/00,B64F5/60,G06F17/11,G07C5/08,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOEING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ETHINGTON, JAMES M.
KELLER, JASON M.
STURLAUGSON, LIESSMAN E.
BOYD, MARK H.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63672628
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ON-BOARD NETWORKED ANOMALY DETECTION (ONAD) MODULES
</title>

<abstract>
Method and apparatus for detecting anomalous flights. Embodiments collect sensor data from a plurality of sensor devices onboard an aircraft during a flight. Feature definitions are determined, specifying a sensor device and an algorithm for deriving data values from sensor data collected from the device. Embodiments determine whether anomalous activity occurred during the flight using an anomaly detection model. An anomaly is detected including at least one of (i) a contextual anomaly where a data instance of a plurality of data instances is anomalous relative to a specific context, or (ii) a collective anomaly where two or more data instances are anomalous relative to a remainder of the plurality of data instances, even though each of the two or more data instances is not anomalous in and of itself. A report specifying a measure of the anomalous activity for the flight is generated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: collecting sensor data from a plurality of sensor devices onboard an aircraft during a flight, wherein the collected sensor data from the plurality of sensor devices onboard the aircraft comprises any combination of measurements; retrieving a plurality of feature definitions, wherein a first one of the plurality of feature definitions specifies one or more of the plurality of sensor devices and an algorithm for deriving data values from sensor data collected from the one or more sensor devices; determining whether anomalous activity occurred during the flight using an anomaly detection model, wherein the anomaly detection model describes a pattern of normal feature values for at least the first feature definition, and wherein the determining further comprises comparing feature values calculated from the collected sensor data with the pattern of normal feature values for the first feature definitions, wherein an anomaly is detected comprising at least one of (i) a contextual anomaly where at least one data instance of a plurality of data instances is anomalous relative to a specific context, or (ii) a collective anomaly where two or more data instances within the plurality of data instances are anomalous relative to a remainder of the plurality of data instances, even though each of the two or more data instances is not anomalous in and of itself; and generating a report specifying a measure of the anomalous activity for the flight.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the anomaly detection model comprises a plurality of online networked anomaly detection (ONAD) modules, and the method further comprising: training the anomaly detection model, comprising: collecting sensor data from the plurality of sensor devices onboard the aircraft during a plurality of previous flights; and for each of the plurality of previous flights, and for each of the plurality of ONAD modules, updating a respective module memory array with a respective learned test reference (LTR) point for the previous flight.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein each LTR point comprises one or more statistical measures, correlation coefficients or other values of a feature measured against itself or any other feature or a plurality of other features, and wherein training the anomaly detection model further comprises: determining a convergence bound value; calculating a convergence value for each LTR point across the plurality of previous flights; and upon determining that a calculated convergence values for a first one of the plurality of previous flights exceeds the convergence bound value, determining that the training is complete.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the convergence values are calculated according to the following equation where Fim represents the LTR point for a specified flight i and that includes learned features for ONAD module m.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein a first one of the plurality of feature definitions comprises a temporal representation of a measure of a differential magnitude over a window of time between values from one of the plurality of sensor devices, and wherein determining whether the anomalous activity occurred during the flight using the anomaly detection model, further comprises: calculating the feature values, based on the collected sensor data and the plurality of feature definitions.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein comparing the feature values calculated from the collected sensor data with the pattern of normal feature values for the first feature definition is further based on a respective time value during the flight at which the collected sensor data was collected by the respective one or more sensor devices, and wherein the time is expressed as at least one of (i) a measure of time elapsed since a beginning of the flight, (ii) a measure of time during one of a plurality of phases during the flight, (iii) a measure of time remaining in the flight, (iv) a percentage amount of time elapsed since a beginning of the flight and (v) a percentage amount of time remaining in the flight.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein comparing the feature values calculated from the collected sensor data with the pattern of normal feature values for the first feature definition further comprises: calculating the feature values based on one or more windows of sensor data collected by the respective one or more sensor devices during the flight.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether anomalous activity occurred during the flight further comprises: calculating an anomaly score for the flight, wherein the anomaly score characterizes the anomalous activity that occurred during the flight with respect to both a duration of the anomalous activity and a magnitude of the anomalous activity.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein aim represents a number of anomalies detected by module m during the flight i, wherein Tim represents a number of samples provided to module m during the flight i, wherein represents a percentage of the flight that module m considered anomalous, wherein pθm represents a threshold percentage of anomalous that, if exceeded, indicates that the flight is considered anomalous.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein a weighting value wim is used to scale an output of the anomaly score based on a convergence value CVim, wherein
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the calculated anomaly score for the flight comprises a duration anomaly score Dim, wherein the duration anomaly score is calculated as the method further comprising: determining that the flight is an anomalous flight, responsive to determining that the duration anomaly score is greater than or equal to 1.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein determining whether anomalous activity occurred during the flight using an anomaly detection model further comprises: calculating a single flight magnitude anomaly score Mim, wherein the single flight magnitude anomaly score is calculated as where aim represents the number of anomalies for flight i and module m, Fj represents an observed anomalous point, Fm represents a learned mean for the module m, σm represents a standard deviation for the module m, and σr represents an outlier threshold value used to scale the single flight magnitude anomaly score.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein determining whether anomalous activity occurred during the flight using an anomaly detection model further comprises: calculating an aggregate anomaly score for the flight as Aim=Dim·Mim.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the detected anomaly comprises a contextual anomaly.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the detected anomaly comprises a collective anomaly.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising: outputting for display at least a portion of the report specifying the measure of the anomalous activity for the flight; and performing one or more maintenance activities on the aircraft, as a result of the report, so as to prevent anomalous activity from occurring during one or more subsequent flights of the aircraft.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining whether anomalous activity occurred during the flight using the anomaly detection model comprises comparing the feature values using a dynamic threshold generated based on training the anomaly detection model.
18. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, over a data communications network, additional sensor data collected from a second plurality of sensor devices onboard at least one additional aircraft during a plurality of previous flights; and training the anomaly detection model, wherein the anomaly detection model comprises a plurality of online networked anomaly detection (ONAD) modules, and comprising, for each of the plurality of previous flights, updating a respective module memory array with a respective learned test reference (LTR) point for the previous flight.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable medium containing computer program code that, when executed, performs an operation comprising: collecting sensor data from a plurality of sensor devices onboard an aircraft during a flight, wherein the collected sensor data from the plurality of sensor devices onboard the aircraft comprises any combination of measurements; retrieving a plurality of feature definitions, wherein a first one of the plurality of feature definitions specifies one or more of the plurality of sensor devices and an algorithm for deriving data values from sensor data collected from the one or more sensor devices; determining whether anomalous activity occurred during the flight using an anomaly detection model, wherein the anomaly detection model describes a pattern of normal feature values for at least the first feature definition, and wherein the determining further comprises comparing feature values calculated from the collected sensor data with the pattern of normal feature values for the first feature definitions, wherein an anomaly is detected comprising at least one of (i) a contextual anomaly where at least one data instance of a plurality of data instances is anomalous relative to a specific context, or (ii) a collective anomaly where two or more data instances within the plurality of data instances are anomalous relative to a remainder of the plurality of data instances, even though each of the two or more data instances is not anomalous in and of itself; and generating a report specifying a measure of the anomalous activity for the flight.
20. A system, comprising: one or more computer processors; and a memory containing computer program code that, when executed by operation of the one or more computer processors, performs an operation comprising: collecting sensor data from a plurality of sensor devices onboard an aircraft during a flight, wherein the collected sensor data from the plurality of sensor devices onboard the aircraft comprises any combination of measurements; retrieving a plurality of feature definitions, wherein a first one of the plurality of feature definitions specifies one or more of the plurality of sensor devices and an algorithm for deriving data values from sensor data collected from the one or more sensor devices; determining whether anomalous activity occurred during the flight using an anomaly detection model, wherein the anomaly detection model describes a pattern of normal feature values for at least the first feature definition, and wherein the determining further comprises comparing feature values calculated from the collected sensor data with the pattern of normal feature values for the first feature definitions, wherein an anomaly is detected comprising at least one of (i) a contextual anomaly where at least one data instance of a plurality of data instances is anomalous relative to a specific context, or (ii) a collective anomaly where two or more data instances within the plurality of data instances are anomalous relative to a remainder of the plurality of data instances, even though each of the two or more data instances is not anomalous in and of itself; and generating a report specifying a measure of the anomalous activity for the flight.
</claims>
</document>
