<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PATHAK, RAMESH CHANDRA
ANAND, VISHAL
BANDYOPADHYAY, SANTANU
RAO, SURYANARAYANA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69640000
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTIPLE PARAMETER BASED COMPOSITE RULE WISE DATA VALIDATION IN CLOUD HYBRID MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
A method for validating data in a hybrid cloud model that includes providing a validation layer in the brokerage module of the hybrid architecture. The validation layer is separate from an applications layer of the hybrid architecture. The method includes sending target object values to a centralized brokerage layer composite query generator (BLCQG) component of the validation layer from an application needing validation of target data time. The method continues with generating a composite validation rule set with the brokerage layer composite query generator (BLCQG) component based on the parameters of the target object values. The method further includes validating the target data item of the target object values with the composite validation rule in the validation rules validator (VRV) component; and sending the target data item that has been validated to the application.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for validating data in a hybrid cloud model comprising: sending target object values to a composite query generator (CQG) component of a validation layer of a hybrid architecture from an application needing validation of target data time, the validation layer being separate from the applications layer; generating a composite validation rule set with the composite query generator (CQG) component based on the parameters of the target object values from the application needing validation of data; validating the target data item of the target object values with the composite validation rule in a validation rules validator (VRV) component; and sending the target data item that has been validated to the application.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising storing the composite validation rule set in a data model.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising employing machine learning to provide cognitive suggestions of primary validation rules.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein separation of the validation layer from the applications layer allows for the validation layer to function independently of the applications layer.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the applications layer includes software as a service (SaaS) applications.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein said validating the target data item of the target object values for a heterogeneous software as service (SaaS) based applications can be performed in the validation layer without using logic processes from the applications layer.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein said sending the target object values to the composite query generator (CQG) component of the validation layer comprises a message in XML or JSON.
8. A system for validating data in a hybrid cloud model comprising: a validation layer in the brokerage module of the hybrid architecture, the validation layer being separate from the applications layer; a composite query generator (CQG) component of the validation layer for receiving target object values from an application needing validation of target data time and generating a composite validation rule set with the composite query generator (CQG) component based on the parameters of the target object values from the application needing validation of data; and a validation rules validator (VRV) for validating the target data item of the target object values with the composite validation rule.
9. The system of claim 8, further comprising a data model for storing the composite validation rule.
10. The system of claim 8, further comprising a machine learning processor device to provide cognitive suggestions of primary validation rules to the composite query generator.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein separation of the validation layer from the applications layer allows for the validation layer to function independently of the applications layer.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the applications layer includes software as a service (SaaS) applications.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein said validating the target data item of the target object values for a heterogeneous software as service (SaaS) based applications can be performed in the validation layer without using logic processes from the applications layer.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein said sending the target object values to a centralized brokerage layer composite query generator (BLCQG) component of the validation layer comprises a message in XML or JSON.
15. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therein for validating data in a hybrid cloud model, the validating data method comprising: sending target object values to a composite query generator (CQG) component of a validation layer of a hybrid architecture from an application needing validation of target data time, the validation layer being separate from the applications layer; generating a composite validation rule set with the composite query generator (CQG) component based on the parameters of the target object values from the application needing validation of data; validating the target data item of the target object values with the composite validation rule in a validation rules validator (VRV) component; and sending the target data item that has been validated to the application.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, further comprising storing the composite validation rule in a data model.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein separation of the validation layer from the applications layer allows for the validation layer to function independently of the applications layer.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the applications layer includes software as a service (SaaS) applications.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein said validating the target data item of the target object values for a heterogeneous software as service (SaaS) based applications can be performed in the validation layer without using logic processes from the applications layer.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein said sending the target object values to the composite query generator (CQG) component of the validation layer comprises a message in XML or JSON.
</claims>
</document>
