<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B65G1/137
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ETHICON
</assignee>

<inventors>
Chila, Matthew
Lau, Lewis Arthur
Syby, Jonathan Addeo
Piedra, Matteo Josue
On, Allen Keith
Wade, David Mickle
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71787086
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISTRIBUTION AND INVENTORY SYSTEM AND METHODS OF USING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, computer-readable instructions, and methods for dispensing and tracking medical products in various medical locations are disclosed. For example, the system may include a server which receives one or more requests for types of medical products from one or more client devices, determines whether the requested types and quantities are available in a dispenser and issues an instruction to the dispenser to automatically dispense the requested medical products and quantities. The server may receive confirmation after the types of medical products are dispensed from the dispenser and update a database. The server may receive unused and used medical product information from a client device and reconcile with restocked medical product information from the dispenser. Available types of medical products and quantities, usage reports and recommendations may be viewed via a Platform by one or more client devices. The dispenser may receive requests directly from a client device for medical products.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: an interface accessible from a plurality of client devices, the interface enabling one or more requests for types of medical products and a quantity for each type to be sent to a server for an identified medical procedure; a dispenser comprising: a plurality of inventory areas for types of medical products, where a type of medical product is storable in a respective area of the plurality of inventory areas; a plurality of dispensing bins to receive and store dispensed medical products for scheduled medical procedures, respectively; one or more readers configured to read an identifier on medical products or a box of medical products, a first electronic storage device; a first communication interface, and a first processor, the server comprising: a second communication interface; a second electronic storage device configured to store a database, the database comprising information on scheduled medical procedures, the information on scheduled medical procedures including requested types of medical products and quantity for each for the identified medical procedure and an identifier of a person who requested the types of medical products, an identifier of the respective scheduled medical procedure, the database further comprising an inventory for each type of medical products, the inventory including, for each type of medical product in the dispenser, the identifier of the medical product, an available quantity of the medical product and an expiration date; a second processor configured to: receive the one or more requests from one or more client devices; update the database based on the one or more requests; when a schedule for one or more scheduled medical procedures for a period of time is confirmed, the second processor is configured to cause the second communication interface to transmit to the dispenser the schedule having one or more pick lists for each of the one or more scheduled medical procedures for the period of time, the one or more pick lists for each of the one or more scheduled medical procedures for the period of time includes the identifier of the scheduled medical procedure and an identifier of each type of medical product and quantity of each to be dispensed, the schedule indicating a time of each of the one or more scheduled medical procedures, wherein in response to receipt of the schedule with the one or more pick lists for each of the one or more scheduled medical procedures for the period of time, the first processor is configured to determine whether at least one of the plurality of dispensing bins for storing dispensed medical products is available and located in one of a plurality of dispensing areas, and in response to determining that at least one of the plurality of dispensing bins is available and located in one of the plurality of dispensing areas, the first processor is configured to cause, for an available bin, an automatic dispensing of the medical products for a pick list of the one or more pick lists for each of the one or more scheduled medical procedures included in the received schedule, the automatic dispensing comprises retrieving the medical products from the corresponding inventory areas and placing the medical products in the one of the plurality of dispensing bins in the dispensing area for the pick list.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the schedule with the one or more pick lists for each of the one or more scheduled medical procedures for the period of time further includes location identifiers indicating a location of the inventory areas of the types of medical products, respectively from among the plurality of inventory areas, to be dispensed for each of the one or more pick lists for each of the one or more scheduled medical procedures, and the first processor is configured to cause the retrieval of the medical products using the location identifiers indicating the location.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein in response to determining that at least one of the plurality of dispensing bins is not available, the first processor is configured to repeat the determination.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein when the dispensing based on the received schedule is complete or when the dispensing of one pick list is complete, the first processor is configured to cause the dispenser to transmit, via the first communication interface, a confirmation to the server, the confirmation including the types of medical products and quantities dispensed for each pick list that is completed, and wherein in response to receipt of the confirmation, the second processor is configured to update the database.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the one of the one or more readers is configured to scan one or more boxes of medical products for replenishing medical products, wherein the first processor is configured to transmit, via the first communication interface, a confirmation after changing a mode of operation, the confirmation including one or more identifiers of the one or more boxes, and wherein in response to receipt of the confirmation, the second processor is configured to update the database.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the dispenser further comprises a restocking area configured to store medical products which were previously dispensed and unused in a scheduled procedure, wherein the first processor is configured to cause the dispenser to determine whether the restocking area contains medical products for restocking and in response to the determination, the first processor is configured to cause the dispenser to restock the medical products from the restocking area when the type of medical product is a type of medical product stored in the dispenser.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the restocking comprises for each medical product: scanning the identifier of the medical product with an internal reader; determining the corresponding inventory area of the plurality of inventory areas for the type; and placing the medical product in the corresponding inventory area.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein upon completion of restocking or periodically, the first processor is configured to cause the dispenser to transmit, via the first communication interface, a confirmation to the server for reconciliation, the confirmation including the type of medical product and quantity of each type.
9. The system of claim 6, wherein dispensing medical products to the plurality of dispensing bins has priority over restocking.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein in response to receipt of a new schedule having one or more pick lists for a scheduled medical procedure and determining that one of the plurality of dispensing bins is available and located in one of the plurality of dispensing area or a pick list contained in a previous schedule had not been completed and determining that one of the plurality of dispensing bins is available and located in one of the plurality of dispensing area, the first processor is configured to cause the dispenser to interrupt the restocking, the interrupt being after a completion of restocking any scanned medical products at the time of receipt of the new schedule or determination.
11. The system of claim 6, wherein the server is configured to receive the quantity of used and unused medical products in a medical procedure from a client device, for each type of medical device in the one or more pick lists for the medical procedure, and wherein the second processor is configured to compare the quantity of unused medical products for each type of medical devices, with the quantity of restocked medical products for each type of medical devices received from the dispenser for reconciliation.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein in response to a discrepancy in the quantity of unused medical products and the quantity of restocked medical products, the second processor is configured to cause the server to transmit, via the second communication interface, a notification to materials management or update a screen on a web-based user portal.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the dispenser further comprises an error bin, and wherein the dispenser in dispensing medical products to the dispensing bins is configured to scan a medical product using an internal reader, upon determining a medical product has expired, the first processor is configured to cause the dispenser to place the expired medical product in the error bin.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the received schedule further includes for at least one type of medical product, an allowable substitute medical product, wherein in response to an error in attempting to dispense the at least one type of medical product, the first processor is configured to cause the dispenser to dispense the allowable substitute medical product for the scheduled medical procedure in the schedule with the pick list and place the allowable substitute medical product in the appropriate dispensing bin.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the error comprises attempting to retrieve the at least one type of medical product a set quantity of times.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the dispenser further comprising a light indicator, and wherein when the allowable substitute medical product is dispensed in the dispensing bin, the light indicator is configured to emit a set color different than when the dispensing bin in the dispensing area does not include the allowable substitute medical product.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein when the allowable substitute medical product is dispensed, the dispenser is configured to transmit to the server a confirmation indicating the type of medical products dispensed and the quantity, the type including the allowable substitute medical product.
18. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a second type of dispenser containing a plurality of types of medical products, the second type of dispenser having a third communication interface which is configured to communicate with the server, wherein when a medical product is removed from the second type of dispenser, the second type of dispenser is configured to identify the type of medical product and transmit the type of medical product that was removed to the server; and wherein the second processor is configured to update the database based on the received type of medical products from the second type of dispenser.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein the second processor is configured to generate a message when a quantity of available medical product for a type is less than a threshold, the quantity of available medical product determined based on the updated database including information from the dispenser.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the second processor is configured to analyze, for each type of medical product, the used and unused medical products, for the same medical procedure over a time, using the information in the database and generate a report containing the analysis, the analysis including a recommended type and quantity for each recommended type for the same medical procedure.
21. The system of claim 11, wherein the second processor is configured to analyze, for each type of medical product, the used and unused medical products, for the same provider over a time, using the information in the database and generate a report containing the analysis, the analysis including a recommended type and quantity for each recommended type of medical product.
22. The system of claim 20, wherein the reports are accessible via Internet.
23. The system of claim 20, wherein the second processor is configured to analyze for each type of medical product, the used and unused medical products, for medical procedures over a time, and based on the analysis issue a recommendation for ordering new medical products.
24. The system of claim 1, wherein the medical products are selected from a group consisting of sutures, clips, fasteners, implants, hemostats (absorbable), orthopedic pins, screws, rods, plates, staple reloads, dressings, pacing wires, an endoscope, a clamp, a saw, bone wax, drains, connectors, adapters, tubing, and topical skin adhesives.
25. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of inventory areas comprises storage cartridges.
26. The system of claim 1, wherein the interface is accessible via Internet.
27. The system of claim 1, further comprising a third processor configured to: determine the types of medical products to be stored in the plurality of inventory areas; and for the determined type, determine a quantity of the plurality of inventory areas assigned, wherein the determinations are sent to the second processor.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein the determinations are based on historical medical product use information received from a hospital where the dispenser is to be deployed for a plurality of medical procedures for a period of time, the third processor is configured to output a first coverage based on the determinations.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein a coverage is periodically determined based on the updated database and when the determined coverage is a threshold less than the first coverage, the third processor executes the determination of the types of medical products to be stored in the plurality of inventory areas; and for the determined type, and the determination of the quantity of the plurality of inventory areas assigned again.
30. The system of claim 1, wherein the server is further configured to transmit via the second communication interface, inventory data from the database to one or more client devices for display on a screen.
31. The system of claim 30, wherein the inventory data transmitted is based on access rights for users of the one or more client devices.
32. The system of claim 1, wherein all pick lists of the one or more pick lists for the same medical procedure are dispensed in the same available dispensing area.
33. The system of claim 1, wherein, the first processor, for each available bin, causes an automatic dispensing of the medical products for a respective pick list of the one or more pick lists for each of the one or more scheduled medical procedures included in the received schedule, the automatic dispensing comprises retrieving the medical products from the corresponding inventory areas and placing the medical products in a respective one of the plurality of dispensing bins in a respective one of the plurality of dispensing areas.
34. A system comprising: an interface accessible from a plurality of client devices, the interface enabling one or more requests for types of medical products and a quantity for each type to be sent to a dispenser for an identified medical procedure; a dispenser comprising: a plurality of inventory areas for types of medical products, where a type of medical product is storable in a respective area of the plurality of inventory areas; a plurality of dispensing bins to receive and store dispensed medical products for scheduled medical procedures, respectively; one or more readers configured to read an identifier on medical products or a box of medical products, a first electronic storage device; a first communication interface, and a first processor configured to receive the one or more requests for types of medical products and the quantities for each type via the first communication interface; and cause the dispenser to automatically dispense the requested types of medical products and the requested quantities for each type when available, to a dispensing bin, when the dispensing bin is available and in a dispensing area.
35. The system of claim 34, further comprising: the server comprising: a second communication interface; a storage device configured to store a database; a second processor, wherein after the dispenser automatically dispensing the requested types of medical products and the requested quantities for each type, the second processor receives confirmation from the dispenser via the second communication interface and updates the database based on the confirmation.
</claims>
</document>
