<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01D41/127,G06F16/26,G06F17/18,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE CLIMATE CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GERARD, JEFFREY
LI, YIQUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61159926
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATICALLY DETECTING OUTLIER VALUES IN HARVESTED DATA
</title>

<abstract>
In an embodiment, a method comprises determining, in received yield data, one or more passes, each pass including a plurality of observations. For each pass of the one or more passes, one or more discrete derivatives are determined, and based on the one or more discrete derivatives first outlier data is generated. First filtered data is generated by removing the first outlier data from the yield data. Furthermore, for each observation in the yield data, a plurality of nearest neighbor observations is determined, and used to determine a plurality of absolute differences in yield values. Based on the plurality of absolute differences, second outlier data is determined. Second filtered data is generated by removing the second outlier data from the first filtered data. Using a presentation layer of a computer system, a graphical representation of the second filtered data is generated and displayed on the computing system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A method for providing an improvement in automating outlier detection in harvested data using agricultural applications, the method comprising: using instructions programmed in a computer system, determining, in yield data, one or more passes, each pass including a plurality of observations; for each pass of the one or more passes: determining one or more discrete derivatives based on a plurality of observations included in a pass; based on the one or more discrete derivatives determining a set of unsteady-state observations of the plurality of observations for which a crop mass flow is unsteady; including the set of unsteady-state observations in first outlier data; and repeating the step of determining the set of unsteady-state observations for all other passes; generating first filtered data by removing the first outlier data from the yield data; superimposing the yield data onto a rectangular grid; computing a surface area based on the rectangular grid; using the surface area to determine a set of observations within the rectangular grid that includes outliers and including the set of observations in second outlier data; generating second filtered data by removing the second outlier data from the first filtered data; using a presentation layer of the computer system, generating and causing displaying on a computing device a graphical representation of yields of crops harvested from an agricultural field using only the second filtered data.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the one or more passes include at least one start pass or at least one end pass.
23. The method of claim 21, wherein a start pass is a harvesting pass during which a grain transporter has not been completely filled in; wherein an end pass is a harvesting pass during which a grain transporter is being emptied.
24. The method of claim 21, further comprising determining the one or more discrete derivatives for the plurality of observations based on corresponding mass flow amounts determined for discrete time periods.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein the second filtered data is used to automatically control a computer control system of one or more of seeding, irrigation, nitrogen application, or harvesting practices.
26. The method of claim 21, further comprising determining a plurality of nearest neighbor observations for an observation by applying a local difference approach to a plurality of yield data observations in the yield data.
27. The method of claim 21, further comprising superimposing the yield data onto a rectangular grid, computing a surface area based on the rectangular grid, using the surface area to determine a set of observations within the rectangular grid that includes outliers, and including the set of observations in the second outlier data.
28. The method of claim 21, further comprising determining the second outlier data by: for each observation from the yield data, determining a set of neighboring yield data observations that were collected either shortly before or shortly after an observation was collected; computing an aggregate mean value from the set of neighboring yield data observations; and based on, at least in part, the aggregate mean value, determining whether to include the observation in the second outlier data.
29. The method of claim 21, further comprising determining the second outlier data by: for each observation from the yield data, determining a set of neighboring yield data observations that were collected either a first distance before or a second distance after an observation was collected; determining a set of weights for the set of neighboring yield data observations; computing a weighted aggregate mean value from the set of neighboring yield data observations and the set of weights; and based on, at least in part, the weighted aggregate mean value, determining whether to include the observation in the second outlier data; wherein a particular weight value for a particular neighbor observation is inversely proportional to a distance value measured between a location at which the particular neighbor observation was collected and a location at which the particular neighbor observation was collected.
30. The method of claim 21, further comprising generating one or more computer-implemented libraries comprising programmed instructions for detecting, in the yield data, observations contaminated due to errors occurring during a harvesting process.
31. A data processing system for providing an improvement in automating outlier detection in harvested data using agricultural applications, the data processing system comprising: one or more processors; one or more non-transitory data storage media coupled to the one or more processors and storing sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause performing: using instructions programmed in a computer system, determining, in yield data, one or more passes, each pass including a plurality of observations; for each pass of the one or more passes: determining one or more discrete derivatives based on a plurality of observations included in a pass; based on the one or more discrete derivatives determining a set of unsteady-state observations of the plurality of observations for which a crop mass flow is unsteady; including the set of unsteady-state observations in first outlier data; and repeating the step of determining the set of unsteady-state observations for all other passes; generating first filtered data by removing the first outlier data from the yield data; superimposing the yield data onto a rectangular grid; computing a surface area based on the rectangular grid; using the surface area to determine a set of observations within the rectangular grid that includes outliers and including the set of observations in second outlier data; generating second filtered data by removing the second outlier data from the first filtered data; using a presentation layer of the computer system, generating and causing displaying on a computing device a graphical representation of yields of crops harvested from an agricultural field using only the second filtered data.
32. The data processing system of claim 31, wherein the one or more passes include at least one start pass or at least one end pass.
33. The data processing system of claim 31, wherein a start pass is a harvesting pass during which a grain transporter has not been completely filled in; wherein an end pass is a harvesting pass during which a grain transporter is being emptied.
34. The data processing system of claim 31, storing additional sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause: determining the one or more discrete derivatives for the plurality of observations based on corresponding mass flow amounts determined for discrete time periods.
35. The data processing system of claim 31, wherein the second filtered data is used to automatically control a computer control system of one or more of seeding, irrigation, nitrogen application, or harvesting practices.
36. The data processing system of claim 31, storing additional sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause: determining a plurality of nearest neighbor observations for an observation by applying a local difference approach to a plurality of yield data observations in the yield data.
37. The data processing system of claim 31, storing additional sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause: superimposing the yield data onto a rectangular grid, computing a surface area based on the rectangular grid, using the surface area to determine a set of observations within the rectangular grid that includes outliers, and including the set of observations in the second outlier data.
38. The data processing system of claim 31, storing additional sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause: determining the second outlier data by: for each observation from the yield data, determining a set of neighboring yield data observations that were collected either shortly before or shortly after an observation was collected; computing an aggregate mean value from the set of neighboring yield data observations; and based on, at least in part, the aggregate mean value, determining whether to include the observation in the second outlier data.
39. The data processing system of claim 31, storing additional sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause: determining the second outlier data by: for each observation from the yield data, determining a set of neighboring yield data observations that were collected either a first distance before or a second distance after an observation was collected; determining a set of weights for the set of neighboring yield data observations; computing a weighted aggregate mean value from the set of neighboring yield data observations and the set of weights; and based on, at least in part, the weighted aggregate mean value, determining whether to include the observation in the second outlier data; wherein a particular weight value for a particular neighbor observation is inversely proportional to a distance value measured between a location at which the particular neighbor observation was collected and a location at which the particular neighbor observation was collected.
40. The data processing system of claim 31, storing additional sequences of instructions which, when executed using the one or more processors, cause: generating one or more computer-implemented libraries comprising programmed instructions for detecting, in the yield data, observations contaminated due to errors occurring during a harvesting process.
</claims>
</document>
