<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W28/02,H04W36/00,H04W36/32,H04W8/08,H04W80/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GHADGE, AMIT
CHITTA, NITHIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72664107
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROVIDING LOW LATENCY TRAFFIC SEGREGATION FOR MOBILE EDGE COMPUTING NETWORK ENVIRONMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques that provide low latency traffic segregation to ensure an edge user plane (UP) is not overloaded are described herein in at least one embodiment. In at least one embodiment, a method may include determining offload of low latency traffic of a user equipment (UE) at a mobile network edge, wherein the UE has non-low latency traffic associated with a first packet data network session for an access point name; notifying the UE to request creation of a second packet data network session for the access point name; selecting an edge UP element to handle the low latency traffic for the second packet data network session; creating the second packet data network session at the selected edge UP element; and notifying the UE that second packet data network session is created.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining, by a user equipment (UE) that has non-low latency traffic associated with a first packet data network session, a notification to create a second packet data network session; transmitting, by the UE, a request to create the second packet data network session, wherein the request indicates that the request is for a low latency packet data network session; and obtaining, by the UE, a response by the UE indicating that the second packet data network session is created, wherein the response includes an indication that the second packet data network session is the low latency packet data network session and wherein the response includes at least one traffic packet filter.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting, by the UE, one or more packets via the first packet data network session or the second packet data network session based on the at least one traffic packet filter.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the response by the UE includes a protocol configuration options information element that indicates that the second packet data network session is the low latency packet data network session.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: prior to the UE obtaining the notification, transmitting, by the UE, a request to create the first packet data network session that includes an indication that the UE supports low latency traffic segregation.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the request includes a protocol configuration options information element that indicates that the UE supports low latency traffic segregation.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the notification obtained by the UE to create the second packet data network session is included in a response to the request to create the first packet data network session.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the notification obtained by the UE to create the second packet data network session is included in an update bearer request message.
8. One or more non-transitory computer readable storage media encoded with instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations, comprising: obtaining, by a user equipment (UE) that has non-low latency traffic associated with a first packet data network session, a notification to create a second packet data network session; transmitting, by the UE, a request to create the second packet data network session, wherein the request indicates that the request is for a low latency packet data network session; and obtaining, by the UE, a response by the UE indicating that the second packet data network session is created, wherein the response includes an indication that the second packet data network session is the low latency packet data network session and wherein the response includes at least one traffic packet filter.
9. The media of claim 8, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform further operations, comprising: transmitting, by the UE, one or more packets via the first packet data network session or the second packet data network session based on the at least one traffic packet filter.
10. The media of claim 8, wherein the response by the UE includes a protocol configuration options information element that indicates that the second packet data network session is the low latency packet data network session.
11. The media of claim 8, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform further operations, comprising: prior to the UE obtaining the notification, transmitting, by the UE, a request to create the first packet data network session that includes an indication that the UE supports low latency traffic segregation.
12. The media of claim 11, wherein the request includes a protocol configuration options information element that indicates that the UE supports low latency traffic segregation.
13. The media of claim 11, wherein the notification obtained by the UE to create the second packet data network session is included in a response to the request to create the first packet data network session.
14. The media of claim 8, wherein the notification obtained by the UE to create the second packet data network session is included in an update bearer request message.
15. A user equipment (UE) comprising: at least one memory element for storing data; and at least one processor for executing instructions associated with the data, wherein executing the instructions causes the UE to perform operations, comprising: obtaining, by the UE that has non-low latency traffic associated with a first packet data network session, a notification to create a second packet data network session; transmitting, by the UE, a request to create the second packet data network session, wherein the request indicates that the request is for a low latency packet data network session; and obtaining, by the UE, a response by the UE indicating that the second packet data network session is created, wherein the response includes an indication that the second packet data network session is the low latency packet data network session and wherein the response includes at least one traffic packet filter.
16. The UE of claim 15, wherein executing the instructions causes the UE perform further operations, comprising: transmitting, by the UE, one or more packets via the first packet data network session or the second packet data network session based on the at least one traffic packet filter.
17. The UE of claim 15, wherein the response by the UE includes a protocol configuration options information element that indicates that the second packet data network session is the low latency packet data network session.
18. The UE of claim 15, wherein executing the instructions causes the UE perform further operations, comprising: prior to the UE obtaining the notification, transmitting, by the UE, a request to create the first packet data network session that includes an indication that the UE supports low latency traffic segregation.
19. The UE of claim 18, wherein the request includes a protocol configuration options information element that indicates that the UE supports low latency traffic segregation.
20. The UE of claim 18, wherein the notification obtained by the UE to create the second packet data network session is included in a response to the request to create the first packet data network session.
</claims>
</document>
