<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06F30/20,G06T15/00,G06T15/04,G06T15/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NVIDIA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
JORDAN, JAN
KETTNER, LUTZ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62490010
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automatic level-of-detail for physically-based materials
</title>

<abstract>
A method, computer readable medium, and system are disclosed for implementing automatic level-of-detail for physically-based materials. The method includes the steps of identifying a declarative representation of a material to be rendered, creating a reduced complexity declarative representation of the material by applying one or more term rewriting rules to the declarative representation of the material, and returning the reduced complexity declarative representation of the material.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: identifying a declarative representation of a material to be rendered, the declarative representation including expressions representing a structural part in the material as one or more functions defining a distribution of light as it interacts with the material; creating a reduced complexity declarative representation of the material by applying one or more term rewriting rules to the expressions; and returning the reduced complexity declarative representation of the material.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the declarative representation includes an expression tree or a directed acyclic graph (DAG).
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the declarative representation includes an expression tree, where one or more nodes of the expression tree each represent each represent the one or more functions defining the distribution of light as it interacts with the material.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the material is rendered utilizing a physical based rendering (PBR) model.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining an order in which the one or more term rewriting rules are applied to the expressions.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more term rewriting rules are applied to the expressions to create a sequence of declarative representations of the material that terminate with the reduced complexity declarative representation of the material.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein a parameter value of each of the expressions conditionally prevents a matching of each of the term rewriting rules.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising including annotations or other metadata associated with the declarative representation, where the annotations or other metadata are used to select the one or more term rewriting rules or are used as additional parameters during the applying of the one or more term rewriting rules to the expressions.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein a plurality of the term rewriting rules are applied to the expressions in all possible orders to create a plurality of reduced complexity declarative representations of the material, and one of the plurality of reduced complexity declarative representations of the material is selected according to one or more predetermined criteria.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein a plurality of term rewriting rules are applied in a subset of all possible orders, using a predetermined selection strategy, to create a plurality of reduced complexity declarative representations of the material, and one of the plurality of reduced complexity declarative representations of the material is selected according to one or more predetermined criteria, where the predetermined selection strategy is based on greedy selection, an arbitrary cost function, or selection criteria on which rules to apply and which ones to not apply.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the expressions are traversed recursively in a depth first, left to right order, and the one or more term rewriting rules are matched against and applied on a current expression of the declarative representation during traversal, where sub-expressions of the declarative representation are traversed recursively after applying the one or more term rewriting rules.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the expressions are traversed recursively in a depth first, left to right order, and the one or more term rewriting rules are matched against and applied on a current expression of the declarative representation only after all sub-expressions of the current expression have been traversed recursively.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining the one or more term rewriting rules by: defining a plurality of terminating expressions; creating a plurality of matching patterns for all BSDFs within the declarative representation, where the plurality of matching patterns enumerate all possible combinations of how the plurality of terminating expressions can show in parameters of the BSDFs; eliminating from the plurality of matching patterns those that are equal to the plurality of terminating expressions to create a plurality of remaining patterns; and for each of the plurality of remaining patterns, choosing a replacement expression from the plurality of terminating expressions and defining arguments of the replacement expression based on arguments of a match within the remaining pattern.
14. A system comprising: a processor that is configured to: identify a declarative representation of a material to be rendered, the declarative representation including expressions representing a structural part in the material as one or more functions defining a distribution of light as it interacts with the material; create a reduced complexity declarative representation of the material by applying one or more term rewriting rules to the declarative representation of the material; and return the reduced complexity declarative representation of the material.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the declarative representation includes an expression tree or a directed acyclic graph (DAG).
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the declarative representation includes an expression tree, where one or more nodes of the expression tree each represent the one or more functions defining the distribution of light as it interacts with the material.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the material is rendered utilizing a physical based rendering (PBR) model.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to determine an order in which the one or more term rewriting rules are applied to the expressions.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein the one or more term rewriting rules are applied to the expressions to create a sequence of declarative representations of the material that terminate with the reduced complexity declarative representation of the material.
20. A computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to perform steps comprising: identifying a declarative representation of a material to be rendered, the declarative representation including expressions representing a structural part in the material as one or more functions defining a distribution of light as it interacts with the material; creating a reduced complexity declarative representation of the material by applying one or more term rewriting rules to the declarative representation of the material; and returning the reduced complexity declarative representation of the material.
</claims>
</document>
