<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/32,G06F9/451,G06F9/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROYAL BANK OF CANADA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ORTIZ, EDISON U.
VINTILA, IUSTINA-MIRUNA
MARTIN SACRISTAN, JUAN
NABULSI, ADEL AL
MILTON, ARUN JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71945201
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DYNAMIC TIME-BASED USER INTERFACE
</title>

<abstract>
System and method for facilitating management of a time-varying resource pool. The system includes a processor and a memory coupled to the processor. The memory stores processor-executable instructions that, when executed, configure the processor to: obtain a time-series data set including data entries associated with one or more consumed resources; identify one or more recurring resource allocations based on recurring data entries of the time-series data set; identify additional resource allocations based on irregularly-timed data entries of the time-series data set; determine a forecasted resource pool value based on a combination of the identified recurring resource allocations and the additional resource allocations; and upon detection of a trigger condition, generate data for display, via a user interface, a scaled resource allocation value based on the forecasted resource pool value, the scaled resource allocation value corresponding to at least one time-based reference.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for facilitating management of a time-varying resource pool, the system comprising: a processor; a memory coupled to the processor and storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed, configure the processor to: obtain a time-series data set including data entries associated with one or more consumed resources; identify one or more recurring resource allocations based on recurring data entries of the time-series data set; identify additional resource allocations based on irregularly-timed data entries of the time-series data set; determine a forecasted resource pool value based on a combination of the identified recurring resource allocations and the identified additional resource allocations; and upon detection of a trigger condition, generate data to display, via a user interface, a scaled resource allocation value based on the forecasted resource pool value, the scaled resource allocation value corresponding to at least one time-based reference.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein detection of the trigger condition is based on input received on a graphical user interface to navigate to visual elements associated with the at least one time-based reference.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one time-based reference includes one or more successive dates along a time spectrum.
4. The system of claim 1, comprising a user input device, and wherein the memory includes processor-executable instructions that configure the processor to: receive, via the user input device, an input associated with an additional resource constraint; determine an updated forecasted resource pool value based on the additional resource constraint; and display a scaled resource allocation value based on the updated forecasted resource pool value, the scaled resource allocation value corresponding to at least one time-base reference.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the scaled resource allocation value is a weighted value based on the forecasted resource pool value and the time-based reference.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein identifying the one or more recurring resource allocations based on the time-series data set is based on rules-based pattern recognition.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the rules-based pattern recognition includes time-based threshold margins for identifying the one or more recurring resource allocations in the time-series data set.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein obtaining the time-series data set is triggered based on detected resource allocations altering the time-varying resource pool value greater than a threshold amount.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory includes processor-executable instructions that configure the processor to: determine that the forecasted resource pool value meets an excess threshold value; and generate data for display via a user interface to display a notification that the forecasted resource pool value has reached a milestone value.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the trigger condition is based on an elapsed time duration satisfying a threshold value.
11. A method for facilitating management of a time-varying resource pool, the method comprising: obtaining a time-series data set including data entries associated with one or more consumed resources; identifying one or more recurring resource allocations based on recurring data entries of the time-series data set; identifying additional resource allocations based on irregularly-timed data entries of the time-series data set; determining a forecasted resource pool value based on a combination of the identified recurring resource allocations and the additional resource allocations; and upon detection of a trigger condition, generating data to display, via a user interface, a scaled resource allocation value based on the forecasted resource pool value, the scaled resource allocation value corresponding to at least one time-based reference.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein detection of the trigger condition is based on input received on a graphical user interface to navigate to visual elements associated with the at least one time-based reference.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one time-based reference includes one or more successive dates along a time spectrum.
14. The method of claim 11, comprising: receiving, via a user input device, an input associated with an additional resource constraint; determining an updated forecasted resource pool value based on the additional resource constraint; and displaying a scaled resource allocation value based on the updated forecasted resource pool value, the scaled resource allocation value corresponding to at least one time-base reference.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the scaled resource allocation value is a weighted value based on the forecasted resource pool value and the time-based reference.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein identifying the one or more recurring resource allocations based on the time-series data set is based on rules-based pattern recognition.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the rules-based pattern recognition includes time-based threshold margins for identifying the one or more recurring resource allocations in the time-series data set.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein obtaining the time-series data set is triggered based on detected resource allocations altering the time-varying resource pool value greater than a threshold amount.
19. The method of claim 11, comprising: determine that the forecasted resource pool value meets an excess threshold value; and generate data for display via a user interface to display a notification that the forecasted resource pool value has reached a milestone value.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium or media having stored thereon machine interpretable instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a computer implemented method of dynamically quantifying data sets associated with a time-varying resource pool value, the method comprising: obtaining a time-series data set including data entries associated with one or more consumed resources; identifying one or more recurring resource allocations based on recurring data entries of the time-series data set; identifying additional resource allocations based on irregularly-timed data entries of the time-series data set; determining a forecasted resource pool value based on a combination of the identified recurring resource allocations and the additional resource allocations; and upon detection of a trigger condition, generating data to display, via a user interface, a scaled resource allocation value based on the forecasted resource pool value, the scaled resource allocation value corresponding to at least one time-based reference
</claims>
</document>
