<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64C39/02,G01N27/02,G01N33/00,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G05D1/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
POTYRAILO, RADISLAV ALEXANDROVICH
FORMAN, DOUGLAS
GO, STEVEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74039198
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SENSING SYSTEM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A sensor system includes an unmanned vehicle system is provided that includes a housing, and an environmental sensor system coupled to the housing, the environmental sensor system configured to detect one or more environmental conditions of an environment in operational contact with the unmanned vehicle system. The environmental sensor includes a sensing element that includes a sensing material to detect and quantify at least one analyte gas by measuring impedance of the sensing element at one or more frequencies of the different frequencies during exposure of the sensing material to the at least one analyte gas. A control unit includes one or more processors coupled with the environmental sensor and configured to receive a detector signal from the detector circuit of the environmental sensor indicative of the one or more environmental conditions, and control the movement of the unmanned vehicle system based on an operation signal of a remote device, instructions received at a vehicle controller, the detector signal, or in response to detected route conditions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An unmanned vehicle system comprising: an environmental sensor system coupled to a housing and configured to detect one or more environmental conditions of an environment in operational contact with the unmanned vehicle system, the environmental sensor system comprising: a sensing element that includes a sensing material and electrodes configured to apply electrical stimuli to the sensing material at different frequencies; and a detector circuit configured to detect and quantify at least one analyte gas by measuring impedance of the sensing element at one or more frequencies of the different frequencies during exposure of the sensing material to the at least one analyte gas, wherein the detector circuit is configured to control one or more of a low detection range of the sensing material to the at least one analyte gas, a high detection range of the sensing material to the at least one analyte gas, a response linearity of the sensing material to the at least one analyte gas, a dynamic range of measurements of the at least one analyte gas by the sensing material, or a rejection of one or more interfering gases by the sensing material; and one or more processors are configured to: receive a detector signal from the detector circuit of the environmental sensor indicative of the one or more environmental conditions; and control movement of the unmanned vehicle system based on an operation signal of a remote device, instructions received at a vehicle controller, the detector signal, or in response to detected route conditions.
2. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to determine the at least one analyte gas based on the detector signal from the detector circuit of the environmental sensor.
3. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to transmit the detector signal from the detector circuit of the environmental sensor to the remote device.
4. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 1, wherein the remote device is a wearable electronic device.
5. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 4, wherein the wearable electronic device is at least one of a smart watch or physiological monitoring device.
6. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle controller comprises a memory configured to store the detector signal from the detector circuit of the environmental sensor indicative of the one or more environmental conditions.
7. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 1, wherein the housing includes at least one propeller.
8. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 1, wherein the unmanned vehicle system is one of aerial, subterranean, under-water, above-water, under-ground, or above ground system.
9. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 1, wherein the one or more environmental conditions include one or more of at least one gas pollutants, multiple gases pollutants, volatiles, volatiles from drug manufacturing, volatiles from manufacturing of improvised explosive devices, particle matter contaminants, ultraviolet radiation exposure, ambient temperature, ambient atmospheric pressure, ambient relative humidity, or environmental sensor system acceleration.
10. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 1 wherein the environmental sensor system has a weight in a range between 0.005 grams and 1 gram.
11. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 1, wherein the housing includes at least one motor within the housing for powering the unmanned vehicle system, and a vehicle battery electrically coupled to the at least one motor.
12. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 11, wherein the environmental sensor is within the housing and electrically coupled to the vehicle battery.
13. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 11, wherein the environmental sensor is within the housing and includes a detector battery electrically coupled to the detector circuit separate from the vehicle battery.
14. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 11, further comprising a flight controller electrically coupled to the at least one motor, a global positioning system electrically coupled to the flight controller, and an electronic speed controller electrically coupled to the at least one motor.
15. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 1, wherein the unmanned vehicle system performs at least one of gas leaks surveillance, gas pollution surveillance, industrial monitoring, environmental monitoring, urban monitoring, traffic pollution monitoring, homeland security monitoring, military monitoring, or search and rescue monitoring.
16. An unmanned vehicle system for determining environmental conditions comprising: a housing including at least one propeller; at least one motor for driving a propeller; a vehicle controller electrically coupled to the at least one motor and configured to receive command signals from a remote device to control operation of the at least one motor and direction of the unmanned vehicle system; an environmental sensor system comprising: a sensing element that includes a sensing material and electrodes configured to apply electrical stimuli to the sensing material at different frequencies; and a detector circuit configured to detect and quantify at least one analyte gas by measuring impedance of the sensing element at one or more frequencies of the different frequencies during exposure of the sensing material to the at least one analyte gas, wherein the detector circuit is configured to control one or more of a low detection range of the sensing material to the at least one analyte gas, a high detection range of the sensing material to the at least one analyte gas, a response linearity of the sensing material to the at least one analyte gas, a dynamic range of measurements of the at least one analyte gas by the sensing material, or a rejection of one or more interfering gases by the sensing material; and a control unit comprising one or more processors communicatively coupled with the environmental sensor and the vehicle controller, wherein the one or more processors are configured to receive an environmental signal from the detector circuit of the environmental sensor system indicative of the at least one analyte gas.
17. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 16, wherein the environmental sensor system has a weight in a range between 0.005 grams and 1 gram.
18. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 16, further comprises a vehicle battery electrically coupled to the at least one motor.
19. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 18, wherein the environmental sensor system includes a detector battery electrically coupled to the detector circuit separate from the vehicle battery.
20. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 16, further comprising a global positioning system electrically coupled to the vehicle controller, and an electronic speed controller electrically coupled to the at least one motor.
21. A method of collecting environmental conditions comprising: positioning an unmanned vehicle system including an environmental sensor system to detect an environmental condition; applying electrical stimuli at different frequencies with the environmental sensor system, the environmental sensor system comprising a sensing element that includes a sensing material and electrodes, measuring impedance of the sensing element with a detector circuit at one or more frequencies of the different frequencies during exposure of the sensing material to at least one analyte gas, wherein the detector circuit is configured to detect and quantify the at least one analyte gas; and controlling one or more of a low detection range of the sensing material to the at least one analyte gas, a high detection range of the sensing material to the at least one analyte gas, a response linearity of the sensing material to the at least one analyte gas, a dynamic range of measurements of the at least one analyte gas by the sensing material, or a rejection of one or more interfering gases by the sensing material with the detector circuit.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein positioning the unmanned vehicle system includes flying the unmanned vehicle system to a predetermined position.
23. The method of claim 21, wherein positioning the unmanned vehicle system includes pivoting a propeller of an aquatic vehicle.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein positioning the unmanned vehicle system includes steering the unmanned vehicle system based on an operation signal received by a control unit coupled to the unmanned vehicle system.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the unmanned vehicle system is a remote controlled vehicle.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein positioning the unmanned vehicle system includes steering the unmanned vehicle system based on a detector signal received from the detector circuit.
27. An unmanned vehicle system comprising: an environmental sensor system configured to detect one or more environmental conditions of an environment in operational contact with the unmanned vehicle system, the environmental sensor system comprising: a sensing element that includes a sensing material and electrodes configured to apply electrical stimuli to the sensing material at different frequencies; and a detector circuit configured to detect and quantify at least one analyte gas by measuring impedance of the sensing element at one or more frequencies of the different frequencies during exposure of the sensing material to the at least one analyte gas, wherein the detector circuit is configured to control one or more of a low detection range of the sensing material to the at least one analyte gas, a high detection range of the sensing material to the at least one analyte gas, a response linearity of the sensing material to the at least one analyte gas, a dynamic range of measurements of the at least one analyte gas by the sensing material, or a rejection of one or more interfering gases by the sensing material; and one or more processors are configured to: receive a detector signal from the detector circuit of the environmental sensor indicative of the one or more environmental conditions and position the unmanned vehicle system during a predetermined period of data acquisition.
28. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 27, wherein to position the unmanned vehicle system during the predetermined period of data acquisition the one or more processors are configured to dynamically control movement based on the detector signal from the detector circuit.
29. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 27, wherein to position the unmanned vehicle system during the predetermined period of data acquisition the one or more processors are configured to dynamically control movement based on detected route condition signals.
30. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 27, wherein to position the unmanned vehicle system during the predetermined period of data acquisition the one or more processors are configured to dynamically control movement based on instructions received in a vehicle controller including a predetermined flight path.
31. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 27, wherein to position the unmanned vehicle system during the predetermined period of data acquisition the one or more processors are configured to dynamically control movement based on detected route condition signals and the detector signal from the detector circuit.
32. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 27, wherein to position the unmanned vehicle system during the predetermined period of data acquisition the one or more processors are configured to prevent movement during the predetermined period.
33. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 27, wherein to position the unmanned vehicle system during the predetermined period of data acquisition the one or more processors are configured to control movement based on operation signals of a remote device.
34. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 27, wherein to position the unmanned vehicle system during the predetermined period of data acquisition the one or more processors are configured to dynamically control movement based on historical data stored in a memory.
35. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 34, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: store environmental data of the detector signal in the historical data of the memory during the predetermined period of data acquisition.
36. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 35, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: transmit the environmental data of the detector signal in the historical data to a remote device.
37. The unmanned vehicle system of claim 35, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: display the environmental data of the detector signal in the historical data.
</claims>
</document>
