<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/84,G06T7/00,G06T7/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOEING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
COFFMAN, Mathew Albert
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73651655
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM, APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR FACILITATING INSPECTION OF A TARGET OBJECT
</title>

<abstract>
A system, apparatus and method are provided for facilitating inspection of a target object. In the context of a method, an image is received that includes the target object. The method applies a first mask to at least a portion of the image in order to mask one or more foreground objects that at least partially block view of the target object. The method further includes applying a second mask to at least a portion of the image in order to mask a background of the target object. The method additionally includes analyzing the image of the target object following application of the first and second masks in order to identify one or more regions of the target object that merit further inspection. A corresponding system and apparatus are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for facilitating inspection of a target object, the method comprising: receiving an image including the target object; applying a first mask to at least a portion of the image in order to mask one or more foreground objects that at least partially block view of the target object; applying a second mask to at least a portion of the image in order to mask a background of the target object; and analyzing the image of the target object following application of the first and second masks in order to identify one or more regions of the target object that merit further inspection.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising interpolating across one or more portions of the target object that are masked by the first mask in order to fill the one or more portions of the target object to which the view is at least partially blocked by the one or more foreground objects.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein applying the first mask comprises: accessing one or more models of predefined types of foreground objects; fitting the one or more models to one or more foreground objects in the image; and defining the first mask based upon a respective model fit to a respective foreground object.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein applying the first mask comprises: scanning a scene including the target object that is a subject of the image to generate three dimensional surfaces of the one or more foreground objects; fitting the three dimensional surfaces to one or more foreground objects in the image; and defining the first mask based upon a respective three dimensional surface fit to a respective foreground object.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein applying the second mask comprises: accessing one or more models of candidate target objects; fitting the one or more models to the target object in the image; and defining the second mask based upon a respective model fit to the target object.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein applying the second mask comprises: scanning a scene including the target object that is a subject of the image to generate a three dimensional surface of the target object; fitting the three dimensional surface to the target object in the image; and defining the second mask based upon a respective three dimensional surface fit to the target object.
7. The method of claim 1 further comprising causing one or more markers to be displayed in order to indicate the one or more regions of the target object that have been identified to merit further inspection.
8. An apparatus configured to facilitate inspection of a target object, the apparatus comprising a computing device configured to: receive an image including the target object; apply a first mask to at least a portion of the image in order to mask one or more foreground objects that at least partially block view of the target object; apply a second mask to at least a portion of the image in order to mask a background of the target object; and analyze the image of the target object following application of the first and second masks in order to identify one or more regions of the target object that merit further inspection.
9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the computing device is further configured to interpolate across one or more portions of the target object that are masked by the first mask in order to fill the one or more portions of the target object to which the view is at least partially blocked by the one or more foreground objects.
10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the computing device is configured to apply the first mask by: accessing one or more models of predefined types of foreground objects; fitting the one or more models to one or more foreground objects in the image; and defining the first mask based upon a respective model fit to a respective foreground object.
11. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the computing device is configured to apply the first mask by: scanning a scene including the target object that is a subject of the image to generate three dimensional surfaces of the one or more foreground objects; fitting the three dimensional surfaces to one or more foreground objects in the image; and defining the first mask based upon a respective three dimensional surface fit to a respective foreground object.
12. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the computing device is configured to apply the second mask by: accessing one or more models of candidate target objects; fitting the one or more models to the target object in the image; and defining the second mask based upon a respective model fit to the target object.
13. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the computing device is configured to apply the second mask by: scanning a scene including the target object that is a subject of the image to generate a three dimensional surface of the target object; fitting the three dimensional surface to the target object in the image; and defining the second mask based upon a respective three dimensional surface fit to the target object.
14. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the computing device is further configured to cause one or more markers to be displayed in order to indicate the one or more regions of the target object that have been identified to merit further inspection.
15. A system for inspecting a target object, the system comprising: a computing device configured to: apply a first mask to at least a portion of an image including the target object in order to mask one or more foreground objects that at least partially block view of the target object; apply a second mask to at least a portion of the image in order to mask a background of the target object; and analyze the image of the target object following application of the first and second masks in order to identify one or more regions of the target object that merit further inspection; and an augmented reality display configured to display an image of the target object and to also display information regarding the one or more regions of the target object that merit further inspection.
16. The system of claim 15 wherein the augmented reality display comprises a head-worn augmented reality display device.
17. The system of claim 16 wherein the head-worn augmented reality display device comprises augmented reality glasses.
18. The system of claim 15 wherein the information regarding the one or more regions comprises one or more markers displayed by the augmented reality display in order to indicate the one or more regions of the target object that have been identified to merit further inspection.
19. The system of claim 15 wherein the computing device is further configured to interpolate across one or more portions of the target object that are masked by the first mask in order to fill the one or more portions of the target object to which the view is at least partially blocked by the one or more foreground objects.
20. The system of claim 15 wherein the computing device is further configured to apply the first mask by: accessing one or more models of predefined types of foreground objects; fitting the one or more models to one or more foreground objects in the image; and defining the first mask based upon a respective model fit to a respective foreground object.
</claims>
</document>
