<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VMWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOTTAPALLI, RAVI KUMAR REDDY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71608367
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMICALLY PROVISIONING PHYSICAL HOSTS IN A HYPERCONVERGED INFRASTRUCTURE BASED ON CLUSTER PRIORITY
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for dynamically provisioning and/or deprovisioning physical hosts in a hyperconverged infrastructure based on cluster priority in hyperconverged infrastructures are disclosed. In one embodiment, a user maps physical hosts in a host pool to respective clusters in the hyperconverged infrastructure. Further the user sets one or more resource utilization threshold limits for each cluster by the user. A management cluster then periodically obtains resource utilization data at a cluster level for each cluster. The management cluster then dynamically provisions and/or deprovisions one or more physical hosts to one or more clusters in the hyperconverged infrastructure using the mapped physical hosts in the host pool based on the obtained resource utilization data and the set one or more resource utilization threshold limits.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: mapping physical hosts in a host pool to respective clusters in a hyperconverged infrastructure by a user; setting one or more resource utilization threshold limits for each cluster by the user; periodically obtaining resource utilization data at a cluster level for each cluster; and dynamically provisioning and/or deprovisioning one or more physical hosts to one or more clusters in the hyperconverged infrastructure using the mapped physical hosts in the host pool based on the obtained resource utilization data and the one or more set resource utilization threshold limits.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein setting the one or more resource utilization threshold limits for each cluster, comprises: setting a minimum resource utilization threshold limit and a maximum resource utilization threshold limit.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein dynamically provisioning the one or more physical hosts in the one or more clusters comprise: sending a resource request call upon the resource utilization reaching the maximum resource utilization threshold limit at a cluster; preparing the one or more physical hosts based on the mapped physical hosts and the resource utilization data upon receiving the resource request; and dynamically provisioning the one or more prepared physical hosts in the cluster.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein preparing the one or more physical hosts based on mapped physical hosts and the resource utilization data comprises: preparing the one or more physical hosts based on imaging, networking, domain name system (DNS), network time protocol (NTP) and physical network interface card (NIC) requirements of the cluster upon receiving the resource request, and wherein imaging the one or more physical hosts comprises imaging the one or more physical hosts based on an associated cluster in the hyperconverged infrastructure; and pre-configuring the one or more physical hosts based on the imaging, networking, domain name system (DNS), network time protocol (NTP) and physical network interface card (NIC) requirements of the cluster upon receiving the resource request.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein preparing the one or more physical hosts based on mapped physical hosts and the resource utilization data further comprises: determining a number of physical hosts needed for pre-configuring based on artificial intelligence and/or machine learning techniques; and pre-configuring the determined number of physical hosts with any required Kernel Adapters or other networking pre-requests associated with the cluster.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: dynamically changing imaging and/or networking requirements to the mapped physical hosts in the host pool upon a change to the imaging and/or networking requirements to a physical host in a cluster.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein dynamically deprovisioning the one or more physical hosts in each cluster comprises: sending a deprovisioning request upon the resource utilization reaching the minimum resource utilization threshold limit at a cluster; and dynamically deprovisioning the one or more physical hosts in the cluster based on the mapped physical hosts and the resource utilization data.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein mapping the physical hosts in the host pool to respective clusters comprises: creating a workload-to-physical host (W2H) mapping table by a user, wherein the W2H mapping table includes the physical hosts in the host pool; and generating a unique cluster identifier (id) to each cluster and associating the generated unique cluster id with a physical host id and one or more resource utilization threshold limits upon the user creating the W2H mapping table.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein mapping the physical hosts in the host pool to respective clusters comprises: mapping the physical hosts in the host pool to respective clusters in the hyperconverged infrastructure and setting the associated one or more resource utilization threshold limits using artificial intelligence and machine learning during operation.
10. A hyperconverged infrastructure system comprising: a management cluster; one or more clusters communicatively coupled to the management cluster; and a host pool, wherein the host pool comprises one or more physical hosts and wherein the host pool is communicatively coupled to the one or more clusters, wherein a user maps physical hosts in a host pool to respective clusters in the hyperconverged infrastructure system, wherein the user sets one or more resource utilization threshold limits for each cluster by the user and the management cluster is to: periodically obtain resource utilization data at a cluster level for each cluster; and dynamically provision and/or deprovision one or more physical hosts to one or more clusters in the hyperconverged infrastructure using the mapped physical hosts in the host pool based on the obtained resource utilization data and the set one or more resource utilization threshold limits.
11. The hyperconverged infrastructure system of claim 10, wherein the one or more resource utilization threshold limits comprise: a minimum resource utilization threshold limit and a maximum resource utilization threshold limit.
12. The hyperconverged infrastructure system of claim 11, wherein the management cluster to: send a resource request call upon the resource utilization reaching the maximum resource utilization threshold limit at a cluster; prepare the one or more physical hosts based on the mapped physical hosts and the resource utilization data upon receiving the resource request; and dynamically provision the one or more prepared physical hosts in the cluster.
13. The hyperconverged infrastructure system of claim 12, wherein the management cluster to: prepare the one or more physical hosts based on imaging, networking, domain name system (DNS), network time protocol (NTP) and physical network interface card (NIC) requirements of the cluster upon receiving the resource request, and wherein the imaging the one or more physical hosts comprises imaging the one or more physical hosts based on an associated cluster in the hyperconverged infrastructure; and pre-configure the one or more physical hosts based on the imaging, networking, domain name system (DNS), network time protocol (NTP) and physical network interface card (NIC) requirements of the cluster upon receiving the resource request.
14. The hyperconverged infrastructure system of claim 13, wherein the management cluster to: determine a number of physical hosts needed for pre-configuring based on artificial intelligence and/or machine learning techniques; and pre-configure the determined number of physical hosts with any required Kernel Adapters or other networking pre-requests associated with the cluster.
15. The hyperconverged infrastructure system of claim 10, wherein the management cluster further to: dynamically change imaging and/or networking requirements to the mapped physical hosts in the host pool upon a change to the imaging and/or networking requirements to a physical host in a cluster.
16. The hyperconverged infrastructure system of claim 11, wherein the management cluster to: send a deprovisioning request upon the resource utilization reaching the minimum resource utilization threshold limit at a cluster; and dynamically deprovision the one or more physical hosts in the cluster based on the mapped physical hosts and the resource utilization data.
17. The hyperconverged infrastructure system of claim 10, wherein the management cluster to: create a workload-to-physical host (W2H) mapping table by a user, wherein the W2H mapping table includes the physical hosts in the host pool; and generate a unique cluster identifier (id) to each cluster and associating the generated unique cluster id with a physical host id and one or more resource utilization threshold limits upon the user creating the W2H mapping table.
18. The hyperconverged infrastructure system of claim 10, wherein the management cluster to: map the physical hosts in the host pool to respective clusters in the hyperconverged infrastructure and setting the associated one or more resource utilization threshold limits using artificial intelligence and machine learning during operation.
19. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium encoded with instructions that, when executed by a processor, wherein a user maps physical hosts in a host pool to respective clusters in a hyperconverged infrastructure, and wherein the user sets one or more resource utilization threshold limits for each cluster, cause the processor to: periodically obtain resource utilization data at a cluster level for each cluster; and dynamically provision and/or deprovision one or more physical hosts to one or more clusters in the hyperconverged infrastructure using the mapped physical hosts in the host pool based on the obtained resource utilization data and the set one or more resource utilization threshold limits.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 19, further comprising instructions to: set a minimum resource utilization threshold limit and a maximum resource utilization threshold limit.
21. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 20, further comprising instructions to: sending a resource request call upon the resource utilization reaching the maximum resource utilization threshold limit at a cluster; preparing the one or more physical hosts based on the mapped physical hosts and the resource utilization data upon receiving the resource request; and dynamically provisioning the one or more prepared physical hosts in the cluster.
22. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 20, further comprising instructions to: sending a deprovisioning request upon the resource utilization reaching the minimum resource utilization threshold limit at a cluster; and dynamically deprovisioning the one or more physical hosts in the cluster based on the mapped physical hosts and the resource utilization data.
</claims>
</document>
