<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G03F1/36,G03F1/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU, RU-GUN
HUANG, HSU-TING
Tien, Fu An
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70328686
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Photo mask data correction method
</title>

<abstract>
A method for manufacturing a photo mask for a semiconductor device includes receiving a plurality of hotspot regions of a mask layout corresponding to the semiconductor device. The method further includes classifying the plurality of hotspot regions into two or more hotspot groups such that same or similar hotspot regions are classified into same hotspot groups. The hotspot groups includes a first hotspot group that has at least two hotspot regions. The method also includes correcting a first hotspot region of the first hotspot group to generate an enhancement of the first hotspot region and correcting other hotspot regions of the first hotspot group using the enhancement of the first hotspot region to generate enhancements of other hotspot regions of the first hotspot group.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for manufacturing a photo mask for a semiconductor device, comprising: receiving a plurality of hotspot regions of a mask layout corresponding to the semiconductor device; classifying the plurality of hotspot regions into two or more hotspot groups that comprise a first hotspot group having at least two hotspot regions, wherein same or similar hotspot regions are classified into same hotspot groups; correcting a first hotspot region of the first hotspot group to generate an enhancement of the first hotspot region of the first hotspot group; and correcting other hotspot regions of the first hotspot group using the enhancement of the first hotspot region of the first hotspot group to generate enhancements of other hotspot regions of the first hotspot group.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the two or more hotspot groups comprise a second hotspot group having at least two hotspot regions, the method further comprising: correcting a first hotspot region of the second hotspot group to generate an enhancement of the first hotspot region of the second hotspot group; correcting other hotspot regions of the second hotspot group using the enhancements to the first hotspot region of the second hotspot group to generate enhancements to other hotspot regions of the second hotspot group; and incorporating the enhancement of the hotspot regions of the first and second hotspot groups into the mask layout to generate an enhanced mask layout.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the plurality of hotspot regions generate a plurality of defective areas when the mask layout is projected on a wafer, and wherein the enhanced mask layout does not generate a defective area, when projected on the wafer.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein a defective area on the wafer comprises a pinching, a bridging, or both.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising: projecting the mask layout on the wafer; inspecting the projected mask layout on the wafer to determine the plurality of defective areas; determining a plurality of hotspots of the mask layout corresponding to the plurality of defective areas; and combining neighboring hotspots into a hotspot region.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein a fuzzy match operation is used to classify the same or similar hotspot regions into the same hotspot groups.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein inverse lithography technology is used to correct the hotspot regions.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing an iterative correction of the first hotspot region of the first hotspot group, based on a first predetermined enhancement as an initial enhancement; performing the iterative correction until a goal is reached and the enhancement of the first hotspot region of the first hotspot group is generated; and performing iterative correction of the other hotspot regions of the first hotspot group based on the enhancement of the first hotspot region as the initial enhancement, wherein the iterative correction of the other hotspot regions of the first hotspot group is performed until a goal is reached and the enhancements of the other hotspot regions of the first hotspot group are generated.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: storing the enhancement of the first hotspot region of the first hotspot group in a storage memory; and retrieving the enhancement of the first hotspot region of the first hotspot group from the storage memory as the initial enhancement for performing iterative correction of the other hotspot regions of the first hotspot group.
10. A method for manufacturing a photo mask for a semiconductor device, comprising: receiving a photo mask layout corresponding to the semiconductor device; performing optical proximity correction on the photo mask layout to generate a first corrected photo mask layout; projecting the first corrected photo mask layout on a wafer to generate a first projected photo mask layout; inspecting the first projected photo mask layout on the wafer to determine a plurality of defective areas; determining a plurality of hotspots of the first corrected photo mask layout corresponding to the plurality of defective areas; combining neighboring hotspots into a plurality of hotspot regions; classifying the plurality of hotspot regions into two or more hotspot groups that comprise a first hotspot group having at least two hotspot regions, wherein same or similar hotspot regions are classified into same hotspot groups; correcting a first hotspot region of the first hotspot group to generate an enhancement of the first hotspot region of the first hotspot group; correcting other hotspot regions of the first hotspot group using the enhancement of the first hotspot region of the first hotspot group to generate enhancements of other hotspot regions of the first hotspot group; and incorporating the enhancement of the hotspot regions of the first hotspot group into the first corrected photo mask layout to generate a second enhanced photo mask layout.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the two or more hotspot groups comprise a second hotspot group having at least two hotspot regions, the method further comprising: correcting a first hotspot region of the second hotspot group to generate an enhancement of the first hotspot region of the second hotspot group; correcting other hotspot regions of the second hotspot group using the enhancements to the first hotspot region of the second hotspot group to generate enhancements to other hotspot regions of the second hotspot group; and incorporating the enhancement of the hotspot regions of the second hotspot group into the second enhanced photo mask layout.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein projecting the first corrected photo mask layout on the wafer is a simulated projection.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein a fuzzy match operation is used to classify the same or similar hotspot regions into the same hotspot groups.
14. A layout detection and correction system, comprising: a hotspot collector configured to identify a plurality of hotspot regions in a mask layout; a classifier configured to classify the plurality of hotspot regions of the mask layout into hotspot groups, wherein same or similar hotspot regions are classified into same hotspot groups; and a layout corrector configured to correct an identified first hotspot region in a first hotspot group to generate an enhancement of the first hotspot region of the first hotspot group, and use the enhancement of the first hotspot region of the first hotspot group to correct other hotspot regions in the first hotspot group and to generate enhancements to other hotspot regions of the first hotspot group.
15. The layout detection and correction system of claim 14, wherein the layout corrector is further configured to correct an identified first hotspot region in a second hotspot group to generate an enhancement of the first hotspot region of the second hotspot group, and use the enhancement of the first hotspot region of the second hotspot group to correct other hotspot regions in the second hotspot group and to generate enhancements to other hotspot regions of the second hotspot group.
16. The layout detection and correction system of claim 15, further comprising a storage memory to store the enhancement of the first hotspot region of the first hotspot group and to store the enhancement of the first hotspot region of the second hotspot group.
17. The layout detection and correction system of claim 15, further comprising a mask merger configured to incorporate the enhancements of the hotspot regions of the first hotspot group and the enhancements of the hotspot regions of the second hotspot group into the mask layout to generate an enhanced mask layout.
18. The layout detection and correction system of claim 14, wherein the classifier is configured to use a fuzzy match operation to classify the same or similar hotspot regions in the same hotspot groups.
19. The layout detection and correction system of claim 14, wherein the layout corrector is configured to use inverse lithography technology to correct the hotspot regions.
20. The layout detection and correction system of claim 14, further comprising a defect detector configured to inspect a projected mask layout on a wafer to determine a plurality of defective areas, wherein the hotspot collector is configured to identify a plurality of hotspots of the mask layout corresponding to the plurality of defective areas, and wherein the hotspot collector is configured to combine neighboring hotspots into the plurality of hotspot regions.
</claims>
</document>
