<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/06,G07C5/00,G07C5/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PIKE ENTERPRISES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CROUCH, WILL
EDWARDS, CLIFF
PIKE, J. ERIC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71405176
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM FOR COLLECTING AND ANALYZING EQUIPMENT TELEMATIC DATA
</title>

<abstract>
A system for collecting and analyzing equipment telematic data typically includes a processor, a memory, and an analysis module stored in the memory. The analysis module is typically configured for: receiving telematic data from a piece of equipment; parsing the telematic data to identify (i) location information and (ii) usage information for one or more tools; analyzing the telematic data to determine whether a job site condition has been satisfied; in response to determining that the job site condition has been satisfied, identifying a first job site location based on the location information of the telematic data; determining that the first job site location is not within an existing job site; and updating a job site database to include the first job site location.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for collecting and analyzing equipment telematic data, comprising: a computer apparatus including one or more processors, a memory, and a network communication interface; and an analysis module stored in the memory, executable by the one or more processors and configured for: receiving, via the network communication interface, telematic data from a piece of equipment; parsing the telematic data to identify (i) location information and (ii) usage information for one or more tools associated with the equipment; analyzing the telematic data to determine whether a job site condition has been satisfied; determining that the job site condition has been satisfied; in response to determining that the job site condition has been satisfied, identifying a first job site location based on the location information of the telematic data; retrieving location information for existing job sites from a job site database; determining whether the first job site location is within one of the existing job sites; and in response to determining that the first job site location is not within one of the existing job sites, updating the job site database to include the first job site location.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein analyzing the telematic data to determine whether a job site condition has been satisfied comprises (i) determining whether the one or more tools have been used or (ii) using a machine learning algorithm to determine whether the job site condition has been satisfied.
3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the analysis module is configured for: receiving, via the network communication interface, image data from the piece of equipment; and analyzing the image data; wherein determining that the job site condition has been satisfied is based at least in part on analyzing the image data.
4. The system according to claim 1, wherein analyzing the image data comprises identifying one or more objects associated with the job site condition.
5. The system according to claim 1, wherein the one or more tools comprise (i) a tool that is an integrated component of the equipment or (ii) a handheld tool.
6. The system according to claim 1, wherein the telematic data comprises a plurality of telematic datasets.
7. The system according to claim 6, wherein the analysis module is configured for determining an activity and/or location associated with each of the telematic datasets.
8. The system according to claim 7, wherein the analysis module is configured for determining a total time the piece of equipment is associated with each of a plurality of activities and/or locations.
9. The system according to claim 7, wherein the analysis module is configured for determining a total time the piece of equipment spent at the first job site location during a defined time period.
10. The system according to claim 1, comprising the piece of equipment, wherein the piece of equipment comprises one or more sensors that collect telematic data.
11. A computer implemented method for collecting and analyzing equipment telematic data, comprising: receiving, via one or more computer processors, telematic data from a piece of equipment; parsing, via one or more computer processors, the telematic data to identify (i) location information and (ii) usage information for one or more tools associated with the equipment; analyzing, via one or more computer processors, the telematic data to determine whether a job site condition has been satisfied; determining, via one or more computer processors, that the job site condition has been satisfied; in response to determining that the job site condition has been satisfied, identifying, via one or more computer processors, a first job site location based on the location information of the telematic data; retrieving, via one or more computer processors, location information for existing job sites from a job site database; determining, via one or more computer processors, whether the first job site location is within one of the existing job sites; and in response to determining that the first job site location is not within one of the existing job sites, updating, via one or more computer processors, the job site database to include the first job site location.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein analyzing the telematic data to determine whether a job site condition has been satisfied comprises (i) determining whether the one or more tools have been used or (ii) using a machine learning algorithm to determine whether the job site condition has been satisfied.
13. The method according to claim 11, comprising: receiving, via the network communication interface, image data from the piece of equipment; and analyzing the image data; wherein determining that the job site condition has been satisfied is based at least in part on analyzing the image data.
14. The method according to claim 11, wherein analyzing the image data comprises identifying one or more objects associated with the job site condition.
15. The method according to claim 11, wherein the one or more tools comprise (i) a tool that is an integrated component of the equipment or (ii) a handheld tool.
16. The method according to claim 11, wherein the telematic data comprises a plurality of telematic datasets.
17. The method according to claim 16, comprising determining an activity and/or location associated with each of the telematic datasets.
18. The method according to claim 17, comprising determining a total time the piece of equipment is associated with each of a plurality of activities and/or locations.
19. The method according to claim 17, comprising determining a total time the piece of equipment spent at the first job site location during a defined time period.
20. A computer program product for collecting and analyzing equipment telematic data, wherein the computer program product comprises a non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising computer-readable instructions, the computer-readable instructions, when executed by a computer processor, cause the computer processor to perform the steps of: receiving telematic data from a piece of equipment; parsing the telematic data to identify (i) location information and (ii) usage information for one or more tools associated with the equipment; analyzing the telematic data to determine whether a job site condition has been satisfied; determining that the job site condition has been satisfied; in response to determining that the job site condition has been satisfied, identifying a first job site location based on the location information of the telematic data; retrieving location information for existing job sites from a job site database; determining whether the first job site location is within one of the existing job sites; and in response to determining that the first job site location is not within one of the existing job sites, updating the job site database to include the first job site location.
</claims>
</document>
