<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,H04L12/28,H04W4/33,H04W4/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
COELHO, PAULO
HYLAK, BENJAMIN
WANG, DIANE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72663271
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LOCATION DETERMINATION FOR DEVICE CONTROL AND CONFIGURATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for determining locations and configuring controllable devices are provided. Example systems and methods include determining a location estimate for a computing device and capturing image data, by the computing device, of a physical space that includes a controllable device performing an identification action. The example systems and methods may also include identifying the controllable device in the image data based at least in part on the identification action and determining configuration information for the controllable device. The configuration information may be based at least in part on the location estimate for the computing device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining a location estimate for a computing device; capturing image data, by the computing device, of a physical space that includes a controllable device performing an identification action; identifying the controllable device in the image data based at least in part on the identification action; and determining configuration information for the controllable device, the configuration information being based at least in part on the location estimate for the computing device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the controllable device in the image data includes processing the image data to identify a blinking light.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: determining properties of the blinking light; and matching the properties of the blinking light to the identification action performed by the controllable device.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein determining properties of the blinking light includes determining at least one of a blink time or a blink interval.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the controllable device in the image data includes processing the image data to identify a light of a specific color.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the controllable device in the image data includes processing the image data to identify an identification image that is being displayed by the controllable device.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising determining a relative location of the controllable device with respect to the computing device based at least in part on a size of the identification image in the image data.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining configuration information for the controllable device includes associating the controllable device with a room based at least in part on the location estimate for the computing device.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining configuration information for the controllable device includes: accessing a representation of the physical space; determining a room name based on the location estimate and the representation of the physical space; and generating a name for the controllable device based at least in part on the room name.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining configuration information for the controllable device includes: recognizing an object in the physical space based on the image data; generating a name for the controllable device based at least in part on the recognized object.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing the configuration information for the controllable device; accessing the stored configuration information; and triggering the controllable device to perform an action using the stored configuration information.
12. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one processor, are configured to cause a computing system to at least: capture image data of a physical space that includes a first controllable device performing an identification action; identify the first controllable device in the image data based at least in part on the identification action; recognize an object in the physical space based on the image data; and generate a name for the first controllable device based at least in part on the recognized object.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the computing system to: determine a relative location of the first controllable device with respect to the recognized object; and wherein the instructions configured to cause the computing system to generate the name for the first controllable device include instructions configured to cause the computing system to generate the name for the first controllable device based at least in part on both the recognized object and the relative location of the first controllable device with respect to the recognized object.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the computing system to: determine a location estimate for a computing device; access a representation of the physical space; determine a room name based on the location estimate and the representation of the physical space; and associate the first controllable device with the room name.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the computing system to: store the name for the first controllable device based at least in part on the recognized object; receive a user input that includes the name and a controllable device command; and based on the user input including the name, direct the first controllable device command to first controllable device.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the computing system to: identify a second controllable device in the image data based at least in part on the second controllable device performing a second identification action; determine a distance between the first controllable device and the second controllable device; and responsive to determining that distance between the first controllable device and a second controllable device is less than a pre-determined threshold distance: generate controllable device group data that identifies the first controllable device and the second controllable device; and store the controllable device group data.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the computing system to: retrieve the controllable device group data; receive a user input directed to the controllable device group; and trigger the first controllable device and the second controllable device to perform an action based on the user input.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the computing system to: determine a room name based on the recognized object in the physical space; and associate the first controllable device with the room name.
19. A computing device comprising: at least one processor; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computing device to: determine a location estimate for a computing device; capture image data, by the computing device, of a physical space that includes a controllable device performing an identification action; identify the controllable device in the image data based at least in part on the identification action; and determine configuration information for the controllable device, the configuration information being based at least in part on the location estimate for the computing device.
20. The computing device of claim 19, further comprising a display device and wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the computing device to: determine image coordinates associated with the controllable device in the image data; trigger display of the image data on the display device; and trigger display of an overlay image on the image data based on the determined image coordinates.
21. The computing device of claim 19, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the computing device to: access a representation of the physical space; determine a room name based on the location estimate and the representation of the physical space; and associate the controllable device with the room name.
</claims>
</document>
