<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-03-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/11,G01P15/00,G06K9/00,G09B19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
YAMASHITA KOSEI
MATSUNAGA, HIDEYUKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
50478166
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INFORMATION PROCESSING DEVICE, SENSOR DEVICE, INFORMATION PROCESSING SYSTEM, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
An information processing system includes processing circuitry that is configured to receive input data from a shock sensor which outputs data based on a shock on the shock sensor, and identify a target segment of time-series data that is output from a motion sensor that senses a motion of an object. The target segment includes a pre-shock portion that occurs before the shock event and a post-shock portion that occurs after the shock event, the shock event is recognized based on the data from the shock sensor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing system for analyzing motion patterns of a sports equipment item, comprising: a sports equipment item, one or more sensors coupled to the sports equipment item, the one or more sensors generating time series data representing motion of the sports equipment item; a non-transitory computer readable storage device including instructions that when executed by a processor configure the processor to implement an information processing method, the method comprising: receiving the time-series data from the one or more sensors; identifying a motion pattern of the sports equipment item as one of plural predetermined motion patterns based on the time-series data from the one or more sensors and a stored dictionary defining each of the plural predetermined motion patterns, and controlling display of an impact position distribution for each motion pattern identified in the identifying, wherein the impact position distribution displays a color corresponding to a frequency of impact occurrence.
2. The information processing system according to claim 1, the method further comprising: counting with the processor a number of impacts for each motion pattern identified in the identifying.
3. The information processing system according to claim 1, the method further comprising: displaying a shot type ratio for each motion pattern identified in the identifying.
4. The information processing system according to claim 3, wherein the controlling display includes controlling display of the shot type ratio according to a color classification.
5. The information processing system according to claim 1, wherein the controlling display includes displaying at a same time the impact position distribution with a number of impacts.
6. The information processing system according to claim 1, wherein the controlling display includes displaying the impact position distribution to overlap on a diagram representing an image of the sport equipment item.
7. The information processing system according to claim 1, further comprising determining a shot type by a corresponding motion pattern.
8. The information processing system according to claim 7, wherein the shot type includes a tennis stroke.
9. The information processing system according to claim 8, wherein the tennis stroke includes at least one of a forehand, a backhand, a serve, a smash and a volley.
10. An information processing method for analyzing motion patterns of a sports equipment item, comprising: detecting motion of a sports equipment item with one or more sensors coupled to the sports equipment item, generating time series data representing the motion of the sports equipment item based on the motion detected by the one or more sensors; receiving the time-series data from the one or more sensors; identifying a motion pattern of the sports equipment items as one of plural predetermined motion patterns based on the time-series data from the one or more sensors and a stored dictionary defining each of the plural predetermined motion patterns; and controlling displaying of an impact position distribution for each motion pattern identified in the identifying, wherein the impact position distribution displays a color classification corresponding to a frequency of impact occurrence.
11. The method according to claim 10, further comprising counting with a processor a number of impacts for each motion pattern identified in the identifying.
12. The method according to claim 10, further comprising: displaying a shot type ratio for each motion pattern identified in the identifying.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the controlling displaying includes displaying the shot type ratio according to a color classification.
14. The method according to claim 10, wherein the controlling displaying includes displaying at a same time the impact position distribution with a number of impacts.
15. The method according to claim 10, wherein the controlling displaying includes displaying the impact position distribution to overlap on a diagram representing an image of the sports equipment item.
16. The method according to claim 10, further comprising: determining a shot type by a corresponding motion pattern, wherein the shot type includes a tennis stroke, and the tennis stroke includes at least one of a forehand, a backhand, a serve, a smash and a volley.
17. The information processing system according to claim 1, wherein the sports equipment item is one of a tennis racked, a clothing item, a shoe, or a wristband.
18. The method according to claim 10, wherein the sports equipment item is one of a tennis racked, a clothing item, a shoe, or a wristband.
19. The information processing system according to claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors include a shock sensor and a motion sensor, wherein, in response to each of plural shock events, the method further comprising: receiving input data from the shock sensor which is configured to output data defining a respective shock event, receiving time-series data from the motion sensor that senses motion of the sports equipment item, the shock sensor having a greater dynamic range in acceleration than the motion sensor; setting a length of a pre-shock portion of a target segment of the time-series data as a length of the longest pre-shock portion among plural predetermined motion patterns; setting a length of a post-shock portion of the target segment as a length of the longest post-shock portion among the plural predetermined motion patterns; identifying the target segment according to the defined respective shock event and the set lengths of the pre-shock portion and the post-shock portion; identifying an impact position; identifying the motion of the sports equipment item as one of the plural predetermined motion patterns based on the identified target segment of the time-series data and the stored dictionary defining each of the plural predetermined motion patterns.
20. The method according to claim 10, wherein the (me or more sensors include a shock sensor and a motion sensor, wherein, in response to each of plural shock events, the method further comprising: receiving input data from the shock sensor which is configured to output data defining a respective shock event; receiving time-series data from the motion sensor that senses motion of the sports equipment item, the shock sensor having a greater dynamic range in acceleration than the motion sensor; setting a length of a pre-shock portion of a target segment of the time-series data as a length of the longest pre-shock portion among plural predetermined motion patterns; setting a length of a post-shock portion of the target segment as a length of the longest post-shock portion among the plural predetermined motion patterns; identifying the target segment according to the defined respective shock event and the set lengths of the pre-shock portion and the post-shock portion; identifying an impact position, identifying the motion of the sports equipment item as one of the plural predetermined motion patterns based on the identified target segment of the time-series data and the stored dictionary defining each of the plural predetermined motion patterns.
</claims>
</document>
