<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/50,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEMBERG, RACHEL
Bank, Dor
Fettaya, Raphael Haim
Lavi, Yaniv
Ungar, Adam
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74189427
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONFIDENCE APPROXIMATION-BASED DYNAMIC THRESHOLDS FOR ANOMALOUS COMPUTING RESOURCE USAGE DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments described herein provide dynamic thresholds for alerting users of anomalous resource usage of computing resources. The dynamic thresholds are based on the historical behavior of compute metrics (or a time series obtained therefor) associated with the computing resources and a detected seasonality in that time series. Based on characteristics of the time series, a model for generating dynamic thresholds is determined. The dynamic thresholds track the detected seasonality of the compute metrics. As utilization of the computing resources continue, the determined thresholds are applied to the compute metrics. If the determined thresholds are exceeded, an alert indicating an anomalous resource usage is provided to a user. The dynamic threshold may be adjusted (e.g., tightened or relaxed) based on a confidence level of the detected seasonality. This advantageously reduces the number of false alerts.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: generating a dynamic threshold based on a seasonal pattern detected in a time series of data values corresponding to a metric associated with a computing resource; adjusting the generated dynamic threshold based on a confidence level of the detected seasonal pattern; monitoring the metric associated with the computing resource to determine whether the metric exceeds the adjusted dynamic threshold; and provide an indication based at least on determining that the metric exceeds the adjusted dynamic threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the confidence level is based on one or more of a number of data values in the time series or a period associated with the detected seasonal pattern.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the generated dynamic threshold is adjusted a first amount based on the confidence level being relatively high, and wherein the generated dynamic threshold is adjusted a second amount based on the confidence level being relatively low, wherein the first amount is greater than the second amount.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said adjusting comprises: determining a first statistical feature associated with the time series of data values received during a training phase in which the seasonal pattern is detected, the generated dynamic threshold being determined based on the first statistical feature; and estimating a second statistical feature for a subsequent time series of data values to be received after the training phase completes, the second statistical feature being based on the first statistical feature and the confidence level, the adjusted dynamic threshold being determined based on the second statistical feature.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first statistical feature is a first interpercentile range associated with the time series of data values received during the training phase, and the second statistical feature is a second interpercentile range that is estimated for a subsequent time series of data values received after the training phase.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the indication includes issuing an alert.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the indication comprises at least one of: an e-mail message; a telephone call; or a short messaging service message.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the indication causes an automatic allocation of additional computing resources.
9. A system, comprising: at least one processor circuit; and at least one memory that stores program code configured to be executed by the at least one processor circuit, the program code comprising: a modeler configured to generate a dynamic threshold based on a seasonal pattern detected in a time series of data values corresponding to a metric associated with a computing resource; a dynamic threshold adjuster configured to adjust the generated dynamic threshold based on a confidence level of the detected seasonal pattern; and a monitor configured to: monitor the metric associated with the computing resource to determine whether the metric exceeds the adjusted dynamic threshold; and provide an indication based at least on determining that the metric exceeds the adjusted dynamic threshold.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the confidence level is based on one or more of a number of data values in the time series or a period associated with the detected seasonal pattern.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the dynamic threshold adjustor is configured to adjust the generated dynamic threshold a first amount based on the confidence level being relatively high, and wherein the dynamic threshold adjustor is configured to adjust the generated dynamic threshold a second amount based on the confidence level being relatively low, wherein the first amount is greater than the second amount.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the modeler is configured to determine a first statistical feature associated with the time series of data values received during a training phase in which the seasonal pattern is detected, the generated dynamic threshold being determined based on the first statistical feature; and wherein the dynamic threshold adjuster comprises a statistical feature determiner that is configured to estimate a second statistical feature for a subsequent time series of data values to be received after the training phase completes, the second statistical feature being determined based on the first statistical feature and the confidence level, the adjusted dynamic threshold being based on the second statistical feature.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the first statistical feature is a first interpercentile range associated with the time series of data values received during the training phase, and the second statistical feature is a second interpercentile range that is estimated for a subsequent time series of data values received after the training phase.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the monitor is configured to provide the indication by issuing an alert.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the indication comprises at least one of: an e-mail message; a telephone call; or a short messaging service message.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the indication causes an automatic allocation of additional computing resources.
17. A computer-readable storage medium having program instructions recorded thereon that, when executed by at least one processor, perform a method, the method comprising: generating a dynamic threshold based on a seasonal pattern detected in a time series of data values corresponding to a metric associated with a computing resource; adjusting the generated dynamic threshold based on a confidence level of the detected seasonal pattern; monitoring the metric associated with the computing resource to determine whether the metric exceeds the adjusted dynamic threshold; and provide an indication based at least on determining that the metric exceeds the adjusted dynamic threshold.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the confidence level is based on one or more of a number of data values in the time series or a period associated with the detected seasonal pattern.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the generated dynamic threshold is adjusted a first amount based on the confidence level being relatively high, and wherein the generated dynamic threshold is adjusted a second amount based on the confidence level being relatively low, wherein the first amount is greater than the second amount.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein said adjusting comprises: determining a first statistical feature associated with the time series of data values received during a training phase in which the seasonal pattern is detected, the generated dynamic threshold being determined based on the first statistical feature; and estimating a second statistical feature for a subsequent time series of data values to be received after the training phase completes, the second statistical feature being based on the first statistical feature and the confidence level, the adjusted dynamic threshold being determined based on the second statistical feature.
</claims>
</document>
