<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHAO YONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66540042
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and Apparatus for Identifying Encrypted Data Stream
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes parsing a handshake message of an encrypted data stream according to a secure encrypted transmission protocol corresponding to the encrypted data stream, to obtain a plurality of fields included in the handshake message, determining, from a plurality of rule sets and based on the plurality of fields, a rule set that matches the handshake message, and determining, based on a mapping relationship between the matched rule set and an application, an application corresponding to the encrypted data stream.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An encrypted data stream identification method, comprising: parsing a handshake message of an encrypted data stream to obtain a plurality of fields comprised in the handshake message, wherein the parsing is performed according to a secure encrypted transmission protocol corresponding to the encrypted data stream; determining a rule set of a plurality of rule sets that matches the handshake message based on the plurality of fields, wherein each of the plurality of rule sets comprises at least one of a field rule or an order rule, wherein the field rule indicates a feature of a field, wherein the order rule indicates an order of the plurality of fields in the handshake message, and wherein the plurality of fields meets a rule in a matched rule set; and determining an application corresponding to the encrypted data stream based on a mapping relationship between the matched rule set and the application corresponding to the encrypted data stream.
2. The encrypted data stream identification method of claim 1, wherein the feature is at least one of a length of the field, a type of the field, the length and the type of the field, the type and a value of the field, or a combination of the length, the type, and the value of the field.
3. The encrypted data stream identification method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of fields comprise a plurality of groups, wherein each of the plurality of groups corresponds to one of the handshake message, wherein the encrypted data stream identification method further comprises: matching the plurality of groups with rules from the plurality of rule sets in an order of receiving the handshake message to obtain the rule set that matches the handshake message.
4. The encrypted data stream identification method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of rule sets comprises field rules and order rules, wherein the encrypted data stream identification method further comprises separately matching the plurality of fields with the field rules and with the order rules in the plurality of rule sets to determine the rule set that matches the handshake message.
5. The encrypted data stream identification method of claim 1, wherein the matched rule set comprises a plurality of subsets, wherein each of the plurality of subsets corresponds to at least one application, wherein the encrypted data stream identification method further comprises: obtaining a plurality of application sets corresponding to the plurality of subsets based on a mapping relationship between each of the plurality of subsets and an application from the plurality of application sets; and solving for an intersection set of the plurality of application sets to obtain a unique application corresponding to the rule set, wherein the unique application is the application corresponding to the encrypted data stream.
6. The encrypted data stream identification method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of rule sets comprises a plurality of rules stored in a linked list, and wherein each node in the linked list stores a rule corresponding to a name of the handshake message.
7. The encrypted data stream identification method of claim 1, further comprising: parsing a plurality of names of the handshake message; determining a rule corresponding to the plurality of names; and parsing a plurality of fields of the handshake message that are indicated by the rule.
8. The encrypted data stream identification method of claim 1, wherein the handshake message comprises a plurality of handshake messages.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises training a machine learning algorithm to obtain at least one rule set corresponding to a target application based on a plurality of samples of a plurality of encrypted data flows streams; and determining whether the plurality of samples are handshake messages of an encrypted data flow stream corresponding to the target application.
10. An encrypted data stream identification device, comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor and storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the encrypted data stream identification device to be configured to: parse a handshake message of an encrypted data stream according to a secure encrypted transmission protocol to obtain a plurality of fields comprised in the handshake message; determine a rule set of a plurality of rule sets that matches the handshake message based on the plurality of fields, wherein each of the plurality of rule sets comprises at least one of a field rule or an order rule, wherein the field rule indicates a feature of a field, wherein the order rule indicates an order of the plurality of fields in the handshake message, and wherein the plurality of fields meets a rule in a matched rule set; and determine an application corresponding to the encrypted data stream based on a mapping relationship between the matched rule set and the application corresponding to the encrypted data stream.
11. The encrypted data stream identification device of claim 10, wherein the plurality of fields comprise a plurality of groups, wherein each of the plurality of groups corresponds to the handshake message, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to be configured to match the plurality of groups with rules from the plurality of rule sets in an order of receiving the handshake message to obtain the rule set that matches the handshake message.
12. The encrypted data stream identification device of claim 10, wherein the plurality of rule sets comprise field rules and order rules, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to be configured to separately match the plurality of fields with the field rules and the order rules in the plurality of rule sets to determine the rule set that matches the handshake message.
13. The encrypted data stream identification device of claim 10, wherein the matched rule set comprises a plurality of subsets, wherein each of the plurality of subsets corresponds to at least one application, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to be configured to: obtain a plurality of application sets corresponding to the plurality of subsets based on a mapping relationship between each of the plurality of subsets and an application from the plurality of application sets; and solve for an intersection set of the plurality of application sets to obtain a unique application corresponding to the rule set, wherein the unique application is the application corresponding to the encrypted data stream.
14. The encrypted data stream identification device of claim 10, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to be configured to: parse a plurality of names of the handshake message; determine a rule corresponding to the plurality of names; and parse a plurality of fields of the handshake message that is indicated by the rule.
15. The encrypted data stream identification device of claim 10, wherein the handshake message comprises a plurality of handshake messages.
16. A computer program product comprising computer-executable instructions for storage on a non-transitory computer-readable medium that, when executed by a processor, cause an encrypted data stream identification device to: parse a handshake message of an encrypted data stream according to a secure encrypted transmission protocol to obtain a plurality of fields comprised in the handshake message; determine a rule set of a plurality of rule sets that matches the handshake message based on the plurality of fields, wherein each of the plurality of rule sets comprises at least one of a field rule or an order rule, wherein the field rule indicates a feature of a field, wherein the order rule indicates an order of the plurality of fields in the handshake message, and wherein the plurality of fields meets a rule in a matched rule set; and determine an application corresponding to the encrypted data stream based on a mapping relationship between the matched rule set and the application corresponding to the encrypted data stream.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the plurality of fields comprise a plurality of groups, wherein each of the plurality of groups corresponds to the handshake message, wherein the instructions further cause the encrypted data stream identification device to be configured to match the plurality of groups with rules from the plurality of rule sets in an order of receiving the handshake message to obtain the rule set that matches the handshake message.
18. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the plurality of rule sets comprise field rules and order rules, wherein the instructions further cause the encrypted data stream identification device to be configured to separately match the plurality of fields with the field rules and the order rules in the plurality of rule sets to determine the rule set that matches the handshake message.
19. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the matched rule set comprises a plurality of subsets, wherein each of the plurality of subsets corresponds to at least one application, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to be configured to: obtain a plurality of application sets corresponding to the plurality of subsets based on a mapping relationship between each of the plurality of subsets and an application from the plurality of application sets; and solve for an intersection set of the plurality of application sets to obtain a unique application corresponding to the rule set, wherein the unique application is the application corresponding to the encrypted data stream.
20. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the handshake message comprises a plurality of handshake messages.
</claims>
</document>
