<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/02,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAKSHIT, SARBAJIT
KRYSTEK, PAUL
KWATRA, SHIKHAR
WILSON, JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70771229
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MANAGING DISTRIBUTION OF ONLINE CONTENT BASED ON CONTENT MATURITY
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments for managing distribution of online content by one or more processors are described. Content posted to an online channel is detected. The content is viewable by a first number of viewers. A maturity score for the content is calculated. If the calculated maturity score is above a predetermined threshold, the content is caused to be viewable by a second number of viewers. The second number is greater than the first number.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, by one or more processors, for managing the distribution of online content comprising: detecting content posted to an online channel, wherein the content is viewable by a first number of viewers; calculating a maturity score for the content; and if the calculated maturity score is above a predetermined threshold, causing the content to be viewable by a second number of viewers, wherein the second number is greater than the first number.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving a plurality of viewer engagement components associated with the content.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the calculating of the maturity score for the content is based on a frequency at which the viewer engagement components are received.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the calculating of the maturity score for the content includes determining a semantic distance between the content and at least some of the received viewer engagement components.
5. The method of claim 2, further including determining key elements associated with the content, and wherein the calculating of the maturity score for the content includes searching the content and the received viewer engagement component for the determined key elements.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the content is associated with a user, and further comprising determining a content maturity threshold for each of the viewers, wherein the content maturity threshold is associated with user content being viewable by each of the respective viewers.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein at least one of the calculating of the maturity score for the content and the determining of the maturity threshold for each of the viewers is performed utilizing a cognitive analysis.
8. A system for managing the distribution of online content comprising: at least one processor that detects content posted to an online channel, wherein the content is viewable by a first number of viewers; calculates a maturity score for the content; and if the calculated maturity score is above a predetermined threshold, causes the content to be viewable by a second number of viewers, wherein the second number is greater than the first number.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor further receives a plurality of viewer engagement components associated with the content.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the calculating of the maturity score for the content is based on a frequency at which the viewer engagement components are received.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the calculating of the maturity score for the content includes determining a semantic distance between the content and at least some of the received viewer engagement components.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the at least one processor further determines key elements associated with the content, and wherein the calculating of the maturity score for the content includes searching the content and the received viewer engagement component for the determined key elements.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the content is associated with a user, and the at least one processor further determines a content maturity threshold for each of the viewers, wherein the content maturity threshold is associated with user content being viewable by each of the respective viewers.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein at least one of the calculating of the maturity score for the content and the determining of the maturity threshold for each of the viewers is performed utilizing a cognitive analysis.
15. A computer program product for managing distribution of online content by one or more processors, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code portions stored therein, the computer-readable program code portions comprising: an executable portion that detects content posted to an online channel, wherein the content is viewable by a first number of viewers; an executable portion that calculates a maturity score for the content; and an executable portion that, if the calculated maturity score is above a predetermined threshold, causes the content to be viewable by a second number of viewers, wherein the second number is greater than the first number
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the computer-readable program code portions further include an executable portion that receives a plurality of viewer engagement components associated with the content.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the calculating of the maturity score for the content is based on a frequency at which the viewer engagement components are received.
18. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the calculating of the maturity score for the content includes determining a semantic distance between the content and at least some of the received viewer engagement components.
19. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the computer-readable program code portions further include an executable portion that determines key elements associated with the content, and wherein the calculating of the maturity score for the content includes searching the content and the received viewer engagement component for the determined key elements.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the content is associated with a user, and wherein the computer-readable program code portions further include an executable portion that determines a content maturity threshold for each of the viewers, wherein the content maturity threshold is associated with user content being viewable by each of the respective viewers.
21. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein at least one of the calculating of the maturity score for the content and the determining of the maturity threshold for each of the viewers is performed utilizing a cognitive analysis.
</claims>
</document>
