<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0484,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EXFO Solutions SAS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOUSSAC, THIERRY
PELLOIN, FABRICE
ORTET, Lucas
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70680232
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Timeline visualization and investigation systems and methods for time lasting events
</title>

<abstract>
Visualization systems and methods include, responsive to obtaining data related to one or more events occurring during operation of a system, displaying information about a time-based component of the one or more events on a timeline; displaying fixed information about a timeless component of the one or more events on the timeline; and responsive to user input to modify a timescale of the timeline, adjusting display of the timeline by adjusting the information of the one or more events and maintaining the fixed information of the one or more events.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed, cause a processor to perform the steps of: responsive to obtaining data related to one or more events occurring during operation of a system, displaying information about a time-based component of the one or more events on a timeline; displaying fixed information about a timeless component of the one or more events on the timeline; and responsive to user input to modify a timescale of the timeline, adjusting display of the timeline by adjusting the information of the one or more events and maintaining the fixed information of the one or more events.
2. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the information for each of the one or more events is a start time, one of an end time and a current time, and a duration.
3. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the fixed information for each of the one or more events includes any of a category, a severity, an impact, a data source type, a group status, a pending status, and a notification status.
4. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the information is displayed for each of the one or more events as a duration line that spans a duration and that always displays at least an end time of each event.
5. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the fixed information is displayed for each of the one or more events as a placeholder located at one of an end time for a closed event and a current time for an open event.
6. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 5, wherein the placeholder is a circle or a bubble with a center located at the one of the end time and the current time.
7. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 5, wherein the fixed information is visually conveyed via any of: an icon or image located on, within, or over the placeholder for each event, a relative size of the placeholder for each event, color of the placeholder for each event, a physical shape of the placeholder for each event, a single or double shape borderline of the placeholder for each event, an animated flashing placeholder content for each event, and an animated shading placeholder for each event.
8. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions that, when executed, further cause the processor to perform the steps of: displaying additional information about a specific event responsive to a command to support further investigation of the specific event, wherein the additional information includes at least one of a detail of each subcase of the specific event, a graph of a raw signal for the specific event and its thresholds used for anomaly detection, a graphical multi-dimension diagnosis representation, and a geographical location representation of the specific event.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein a horizontal axis of the timeline represents time and a vertical axis has no value, and wherein multiple events that do not overlap in time are stacked at different locations.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the system is a telecommunications network, wherein the fixed information includes at least a category of each event and any of an impact, a severity based on a duration and impact, a data source indicator, a correlation status, a notification status, and a pending status for each event.
11. An apparatus comprising: a processor and memory comprising instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to responsive to obtaining data related to one or more events occurring during operation of a system, display information about a time-based component of the one or more events on a timeline; display fixed information about a timeless component of the one or more events on the timeline; and responsive to user input to modify a timescale of the timeline, adjust display of the timeline by adjusting the information of the one or more events and maintaining the fixed information of the one or more events.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the information for each of the one or more events is a start time, one of an end time and a current time, and a duration.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the fixed information for each of the one or more events includes any of a category, a severity, an impact, a data source indicator, a group status, a pending status, and a notification status.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the information is displayed for each of the one or more events as a duration line that spans a duration and that always displays at least an end time of each event.
15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the fixed information is displayed for each of the one or more events as a placeholder located at one of an end time for a closed event and a current time for an open event.
16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the instructions that, when executed, further cause the processor to perform the steps of: displaying additional information about a specific event responsive to a command to support further investigation of the specific event, wherein the additional information includes at least one of a detail of each subcase of the specific event, a graph of a raw signal for the specific event and its thresholds used for anomaly detection, a graphical multi-dimension diagnosis representation, and a geographical location representation of the specific event.
17. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein a horizontal axis of the timeline represents time and a vertical axis has no value, and wherein multiple events that do not overlap in time are stacked at different locations.
18. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the system is a telecommunications network, wherein the fixed information includes at least a category of each event and any of an impact, a severity based on a duration and impact, a data source indicator, a correlation status, a notification status, and a pending status for each event.
19. A visualization method comprising: responsive to obtaining data related to one or more events occurring during operation of a system, displaying information about a time-based component of the one or more events on a timeline; displaying fixed information about a timeless component of the one or more events on the timeline; and responsive to user input to modify a timescale of the timeline, adjusting display of the timeline by adjusting the information of the one or more events and maintaining the fixed information of the one or more events.
20. The visualization method of claim 19, wherein the information is displayed for each of the one or more events as a duration line that spans a duration and that always displays at least an end time of each event, and wherein the fixed information is displayed for each of the one or more events as a placeholder located at one of an end time for a closed event and a current time for an open event.
</claims>
</document>
