<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/00,A61B6/03,G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06T7/11,G06T7/13,G06T7/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHANGHAI UNITED IMAGING HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
JI, MIN
PENG, WEILI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69007793
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MODULATING RADIATION DOSE
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for determining a dose of modulation (DOM) profile are provided. The method may include obtaining a 3D image and a topogram image of the object. The method may further include obtaining a dose of modulation (DOM) profile generation model. The DOM profile generation model may be generated by training a preliminary model based on a plurality of sample CT images, a plurality of sample 3D images corresponding to the plurality of sample CT images, respectively, and a plurality of sample topogram images corresponding to the plurality of sample CT images, respectively. The method may further include executing the DOM profile generation model to generate a DOM profile related to a computed tomography (CT) scan of the object based on the 3D image and the topogram image of the object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented on a computing apparatus including a processor and a storage device for determining a dose of modulation (DOM) profile, the method comprising: obtaining a 3D image of an object; obtaining a topogram image of the object; obtaining a DOM profile generation model; and executing the DOM profile generation model to generate a DOM profile based on the 3D image and the topogram image of the object, the DOM profile relating to a computed tomography (CT) scan of the object.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the DOM profile generation model is generated by a process comprising: obtaining a preliminary model; obtaining a set of training data including a plurality of sample CT images, a plurality of sample 3D images corresponding to the plurality of sample CT images, respectively, and a plurality of sample topogram images corresponding to the plurality of sample CT images, respectively; and training the preliminary model based on the set of training data to generate the DOM profile generation model.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the training the preliminary model based on the set of training data to generate the DOM profile generation model comprises: determining a plurality of sample DOM profiles based on the plurality of sample CT images; executing the preliminary model based on the plurality of corresponding sample 3D images and the plurality of corresponding sample topogram images to generate a plurality of predicted DOM profiles; and training the preliminary model by minimizing differences between the plurality of predicted DOM profiles and the plurality of sample DOM profiles.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the set of training data is associated with multiple regions of the object and the generated DOM profile generation model is a universal model.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the set of training data is associated with a region of the object and the generated DOM profile generation model is a specialized model.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the DOM profile generation model includes a neural network model.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the 3D image of the object is generated based on a stereoscopic vision technology, a structured light technology, or a Time-of-Flight (ToF) technology.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing a localizer scan before the topogram of the object is obtained.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: adjusting a tube current of an X-ray tube based on the generated DOM profile.
10. A method implemented on a computing device including a processor and a storage medium for determining a dose of modulation (DOM) profile, the method comprising: obtaining a 3D image of an object; determining a 3D contour of the object based on the 3D image; for each slice of a plurality of slices of the object, determining an X-ray dose corresponding to the each slice based on the 3D contour of the object; and generating a dose of modulation (DOM) profile based on the plurality of X-ray doses corresponding to the plurality of slices of the object.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the determining a 3D contour of the object based on the 3D image comprises: generating a preliminary 3D contour; determining a plurality of parameters of the preliminary 3D contour based on the 3D image of the object; and updating the preliminary 3D contour based on the plurality of parameters to generate the 3D contour of the object.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the determining at least one X-ray dose corresponding to at least one slice of the object based on the 3D contour of the object comprises: generating at least one slice of the object based on the 3D contour of the object; determining a size of the at least one slice; obtaining a mapping table including a relationship between X-ray doses and sizes of slices; and searching the mapping table based on the size of the at least one slice to determine the at least one X-ray dose.
13. A method implemented on a computing device including a processor and a storage medium for determining a dose of modulation (DOM) profile, the method comprising: obtaining a topogram image of an object; segmenting the topogram image into a plurality of regions; determining a plurality of regional dose of modulation (DOM) profiles, wherein each of the plurality of regional DOM profiles corresponds to one of the plurality of regions of the topogram image; and generating a DOM profile related to a computed tomography (CT) scan of the object based on the plurality of regional DOM profiles.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the determining a plurality of regional DOM profiles further comprises: extracting features of each of the plurality of regions; determining a reference topogram image for each of the plurality of regions based on the extracted features; and determining a regional DOM profile for each of the plurality of regions based on the corresponding reference topogram image.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the determining a regional DOM profile for each of the plurality of regions based on the corresponding reference topogram image further comprises: for the each of the plurality of regions, obtaining a scan protocol associated with the corresponding reference topogram image; and determining the regional DOM profile related to the each of the plurality of regions based on one or more parameters of the scan protocol associated with the corresponding reference topogram image.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the determining the regional DOM profile related to the each of the plurality of regions based on one or more parameters of the scan protocol associated with the corresponding reference topogram image further comprises: for the each of the plurality of regions, obtaining a scan protocol associated with the corresponding reference topogram image; obtaining one or more image parameters of the region in the topogram image of the object; and determining the regional DOM profile related to the each of the plurality of regions based on the one or more image parameters of the region and the one or more parameters of the scan protocol associated with the corresponding reference topogram image.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the determining a regional DOM profile for each of the plurality of regions based on the corresponding reference topogram image further comprises: for the each of the plurality of regions, obtaining a reference 3D image corresponding to the reference topogram image; obtaining a DOM profile generation model; and executing the DOM profile generation model to generate the regional DOM profile based on the reference 3D image and the reference topogram image.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the DOM profile generation model is generated by a process comprising: obtaining a preliminary model; obtaining a set of training data including a plurality of sample CT images, a plurality of sample 3D images corresponding to the plurality of sample CT images, respectively, and a plurality of sample topogram images corresponding to the plurality of sample CT images, respectively; and training the preliminary model based on the set of training data to generate the DOM profile generation model.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the DOM profile generation model includes a neural network model.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the training the preliminary model based on the set of training data to generate the DOM profile generation model comprises: determining a plurality of sample DOM profiles based on the plurality of sample CT images; executing the preliminary model based on the plurality of corresponding sample 3D images and the plurality of corresponding sample topogram images to generate a plurality of predicted DOM profiles; and training the preliminary model by minimizing an average difference between the plurality of predicted DOM profiles and the plurality of sample DOM profiles.
</claims>
</document>
