<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F13/20,G06F9/445,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ITRI (INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH INSTITUTE)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HSU, CHIEN-MIN
WU, SHIH-HSIEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70459906
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RECONFIGURABLE DATA BUS SYSTEM AND METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
A reconfigurable data bus system comprises a driver, a receiver, a data bus and a detector. The driver stores an electrical parameter data base. The electrical parameter data base includes a plurality of different signal-to-ground ratios and a plurality of signal quality parameters corresponding to the signal-to-ground ratios. The data bus includes a plurality of signal lines electrically connected between the driver and the receiver. The detector is electrically connected to the data bus and the driver. The detector is configured to detect a current signal quality parameter of the data bus and transmit the current signal quality parameter to the driver. The driver is selectively reconfigured a current signal-to-ground ratio according to a current signal quality parameter of the data bus and the electrical parameter database.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A reconfigurable data bus system, comprising: a driver, storing an electrical parameter database, the electrical parameter database comprises a plurality of different signal-to-ground ratios and a plurality of signal quality parameters corresponding to the plurality of different signal-to-ground ratios; a receiver; a data bus, including a plurality of signal lines electrically connected between the driver and the receiver; and a detector, electrically connected to the data bus and the driver, the detector is configured to detect a current signal quality parameter of the data bus and transmit the current signal quality parameter to the driver; wherein the driver is selectively reconfigured a current signal-to-ground ratio of the data bus according to the current signal quality parameter and the electrical parameter database.
2. The reconfigurable data bus system according to claim 1, wherein when the driver reconfigures the current signal-to-ground ratio of the data bus, at least one signal line used to transmit the low voltage level signal is disposed between each two of signal lines used to transmit data.
3. The reconfigurable data bus system according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of signal quality parameters are a plurality of different eye heights, and the electrical parameter database further comprises a plurality of different data transfer rates corresponding the plurality of eye heights.
4. The reconfigurable data bus system according to claim 1, wherein the signal quality parameters are a plurality of different bit error rates, and the electrical parameter database further comprises a plurality of different data transfer rates corresponding the plurality of different bit error rates.
5. The reconfigurable data bus system according to claim 1, wherein the signal quality parameters are a plurality of different jitters, and the electrical parameter database further comprises a plurality of different data transfer rates corresponding to the plurality of jitters.
6. A method of reconfiguring a data bus, wherein the data bus is electrically connected between a driver and a receiver, comprising: storing an electrical parameter database in the driver, wherein the electrical parameter database comprises a plurality of different signal-to-ground ratios and a plurality of signal quality parameters corresponding to the plurality of signal-to-ground ratios; detecting a current signal quality parameter of the data bus and transmitting the current signal quality parameter to the driver by a detector; and reconfiguring selectively a current signal-to-ground ratio of the data bus by the driver according to the current signal quality parameter and the electrical parameter database.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the signal quality parameters are a plurality of different eye heights, the current signal quality parameter is a current eye height, and the electrical parameter database further comprises a plurality of different data transfer rates corresponding the plurality of different eye heights.
8. The method according to claim 6, wherein the plurality of signal quality parameters is a plurality of different bit error rates, and the electrical parameter database further comprises a plurality of different data transfer rates corresponding the plurality of bit error rates.
9. The method according to claim 6, wherein the signal quality parameters are a plurality of different jitters, and the electrical parameter database further comprises a plurality of different data transfer rates corresponding to the plurality of jitters.
10. The method according to claim 6, wherein the reconfiguring selectively the current signal-to-ground ratio of the data bus by the driver according to the current signal quality parameter and the electrical parameter database, further comprises: determining whether or not the current signal quality parameter is lower than a first threshold; if the current signal quality parameter is lower than the first threshold, searching one of the signal-to-ground ratios from the electrical parameter database, and the signal quality parameter corresponding to the searched one being greater or equal to the first threshold; and reconfiguring the current signal-to-ground ratio as the searched one.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the signal quality parameters are a plurality of different eye heights, the current signal quality parameter is a current eye height, and the electrical parameter database further comprises a plurality of different data transfer rates corresponding the plurality of different eye heights.
12. The method according to claim 6, wherein the reconfiguring selectively the current signal-to-ground ratio of the data bus by the driver according to the current signal quality parameter and the electrical parameter database further comprises: determining whether or not the current signal quality parameter is higher than a second threshold; if the current signal quality parameter is higher than the second threshold, searching one of the signal-to-ground ratios from the electrical parameter database, and the signal quality parameter corresponding to the searched one being lower or equal to the second threshold; and reconfiguring the current signal-to-ground ratio as the searched one.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the plurality of signal quality parameters is a plurality of different bit error rates, and the electrical parameter database further comprises a plurality of different data transfer rates corresponding the plurality of bit error rates.
14. The method according to claim 6, wherein the reconfiguring selectively the current signal-to-ground ratio of the data bus by the driver according to the current signal quality parameter and the electrical parameter database further comprises: determining whether or not the current signal quality parameter is higher than a third threshold; if the current signal quality parameter is higher than the third threshold, searching one of the signal-to-ground ratios from the electrical parameter database, and the signal quality parameter corresponding to the searched one being lower or equal to the third threshold; and reconfiguring the current signal-to-ground ratio as the searched one.
15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the signal quality parameters are a plurality of different jitters, and the electrical parameter database further comprises a plurality of different data transfer rates corresponding to the plurality of jitters.
16. The method according to claim 6, wherein before the driver selectively reconfigures the current signal-to-ground ratio, and after detecting the current signal quality parameter by the driver, the method further comprises: determining, by the driver, whether or not the current signal quality parameter exists in the electrical parameter database; and if the current parameter quality parameter does not exist in the electrical parameter database, storing the current signal quality parameter and the current signal-to-ground ratio in the electrical parameter database.
17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the current signal quality parameter is a current eye height, a current bit error rate, or a current jitter.
18. The method according to claim 6, wherein the method further comprises: generating the electrical parameter database through a neural network learning signal quality parameters before storing the electrical parameter database in the driver.
</claims>
</document>
