<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/30,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
WU XIANCHAO
CHEN, ZHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64740723
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATING RESPONSES IN AUTOMATED CHATTING
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides method and apparatus for generating responses in automated chatting. A message may be received in a session. An intention vector may be determined based at least on the message and the session through dynamic memory network (DMN), the intention vector indicating an attention point and an intention. A response may be generated based at least on the intention vector.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating responses in automated chatting, comprising: receiving a message in a session; determining an intention vector based at least on the message and the session through dynamic memory network (DMN), the intention vector indicating an attention point and an intention; and generating a response based at least on the intention vector.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the intention vector comprises: reasoning out at least one fact memory vector based at least on the message and the session; reasoning out at least one emotion memory vector based at least on the message and the session; and generating the intention vector based on the at least one fact memory vector and the at least one emotion memory vector.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the reasoning out the at least one fact memory vector comprises: reasoning out a first fact memory vector from fact vectors of the session; and reasoning out a second fact memory vector from fact vectors of one or more candidate fact responses.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: determining the one or more candidate fact responses based on at least one of the message, the session, a pure chat index and a topic-topic knowledge graph, wherein the topic-topic knowledge graph comprises a plurality of topic phrases that are associated with each other.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the reasoning out the at least one emotion memory vector comprises: reasoning out a first emotion memory vector from emotion vectors of the session; and reasoning out a second emotion memory vector from emotion vectors of one or more candidate emotion responses.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining the one or more candidate emotion responses based on at least one of the message, the session, a pure chat index and an emotion-topic knowledge graph, wherein the emotion-topic knowledge graph comprises a plurality of topic phrases and a plurality of emotion phrases that are associated with each other.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein the generating the response comprises: generating the response based at least on the intention vector, the at least one fact memory vector, and the at least one emotion memory vector.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: establishing a generative adversarial network (GAN) including a generator and a discriminator, the generator being based at least on the DMN, the discriminator being based on a deep semantic similarity model (DSSM).
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the discriminator is trained by reference data and generated data, the generated data being generated by the generator based on samples of the reference data, and the generator is trained through a gradient policy that is based on a reward provided by the discriminator.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining a new reference data based on the response; and updating the GAN based at least on the new reference data.
11. The method of claim 5, wherein the emotion vectors are generated by a sentiment analysis classifier, a training dataset for the sentiment analysis classifier being obtained through an emotion lexicon, the emotion lexicon being established at least by performing Word2vec word extension and bilingual word alignment on seed emotional words.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the sentiment analysis classifier is a character-level recurrent convolutional neural network (RCNN).
13. An apparatus for generating responses in automated chatting, comprising: a message receiving module, for receiving a message in a session; an intention vector determining module, for determining an intention vector based at least on the message and the session through dynamic memory network (DMN), the intention vector indicating an attention point and an intention; and a response generating module, for generating a response based at least on the intention vector.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: a fact memory module, for reasoning out at least one fact memory vector based at least on the message and the session; and an emotion memory module, for reasoning out at least one emotion memory vector based at least on the message and the session, wherein the intention vector determining module is further for generating the intention vector based on the at least one fact memory vector and the at least one emotion memory vector.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the reasoning out the at least one fact memory vector comprises: reasoning out a first fact memory vector from fact vectors of the session; and reasoning out a second fact memory vector from fact vectors of one or more candidate fact responses.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising: a fact response ranking model, for determining the one or more candidate fact responses based on at least one of the message, the session, a pure chat index and a topic-topic knowledge graph, wherein the topic-topic knowledge graph comprises a plurality of topic phrases that are associated with each other.
17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the reasoning out the at least one emotion memory vector comprises: reasoning out a first emotion memory vector from emotion vectors of the session; and reasoning out a second emotion memory vector from emotion vectors of one or more candidate emotion responses.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising: an emotion response ranking model, for determining the one or more candidate emotion responses based on at least one of the message, the session, a pure chat index and an emotion-topic knowledge graph, wherein the emotion-topic knowledge graph comprises a plurality of topic phrases and a plurality of emotion phrases that are associated with each other.
19. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: a generative adversarial network (GAN) establishing module, for establishing a GAN including a generator and a discriminator, the generator being based at least on the DMN, the discriminator being based on a deep semantic similarity model (DSSM).
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the discriminator is trained by reference data and generated data, the generated data being generated by the generator based on samples of the reference data, and the generator is trained through a gradient policy that is based on a reward provided by the discriminator.
</claims>
</document>
