<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/02,G16H10/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Social Climb LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
Maxwell, Jared Bryan
Allen, Ty John
Walker, Michael John Franklin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72604275
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TARGETED PATIENT ACQUISITION AND REPUTATION ENHANCEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure describes systems and methods for managing the reputation of a practitioner, such as a medical practitioner or another professional service provider, by requesting reviews after a procedure or other service has been provided. A targeted patient or client acquisition system leverages the strengthened reputation of the practitioner to acquire target patients. The targeted patient acquisition system identifies a target geographic region for targeted advertisement based on a weighted function of targeting factors for each of a plurality of geographic regions within a travel threshold of an office of the practitioner. A marketing management subsystem manages the electronic distribution of advertisements to individuals within the identified target geographic region. Calculated profitability metrics of new patients acquired via the targeted advertisements are used to adjust the target geographic region.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A patient acquisition system, comprising: a practitioner reputation management subsystem to automatically request that existing patients, subsequent to a procedure performed by the practitioner, post a review on a publicly visible website; a target patient identification subsystem to identify a target geographic region for targeted advertisement based on a weighted function of targeting factors for each of a plurality of geographic regions within a travel threshold of a medical facility of the practitioner, wherein the targeting factors comprise: (i) profitability metrics of prior patients, (ii) average household income metrics, (iii) an estimated total market share metric of a type of procedure offered by the practitioner, and (iv) an estimated percentage metric of the total market share already captured by the practitioner; an advertisement management subsystem to authorize electronic distribution of an advertisement within the target geographic region; a tracking subsystem to identify a conversion rate of viewers of the advertisement that become new patients; a profitability return on advertising spend (PROAS) calculation subsystem to calculate a profitability metric of the new patients acquired via the advertisement in the target geographic region; and a profitability subsystem to adjust weightings applied to the targeting factors based on the calculated profitability metric.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the profitability subsystem utilizes a machine learning model trained using associations between the weightings applied to the targeting factors and the profitability metric calculated by the PROAS calculation subsystem to adjust the weightings applied to the targeting factors.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a reporting subsystem to generate a graphical user interface (GUI) to illustrate profitability metrics and residence location of current patients overlaid on a map.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a reporting subsystem to generate a graphical user interface (GUI) to illustrate the metrics associated with the targeting factors of each of the plurality of geographic regions overlaid on a map.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the advertisement management subsystem is further configured to verify that the advertisement does not conflict with an advertisement of a different practitioner utilizing the patient acquisition system.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the advertisement management subsystem is further configured to verify that the practitioner has available budget to pay for the electronic distribution of the advertisement within the target geographic region.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the practitioner reputation management subsystem directs existing patients, subsequent to the procedure performed by the practitioner, to post reviews on at least one of a plurality of publicly visible websites.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the practitioner reputation management subsystem directs a first set of existing patients to post a review on a first publicly visible website and directs a second set of existing patients to post a review on a second publicly visible website.
9. The system of claim 1, further comprises a practitioner interface subsystem to generate a graphical user interface (GUI) to enable a practitioner to adjust a marketing spend budget and to visualize the calculated profitability metric of the new patients acquired via the advertisement in the target geographic region.
10. The system of claim 1, further comprising a practice management interface subsystem to interface with an existing practice management system of the practitioner.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable medium with instructions stored thereon that, when executed by a processor of a computing system, cause the computing system to implement operations for targeted patient acquisition, the operations comprising: requesting that existing patients of a practitioner post a review on a publicly visible website following a procedure performed by the practitioner on each respective patient; identifying a target geographic region for targeted advertisement based on a weighted function of targeting factors for each of a plurality of geographic regions within a travel threshold of a medical facility of the practitioner, wherein the targeting factors comprise: (i) average household income metrics, and (ii) an estimated percentage metric of a total market share currently captured by the practitioner; authorizing electronic distribution of an advertisement within the target geographic region; identifying a conversion rate of viewers of the advertisement that become new patients; calculating a profitability metric of the new patients acquired via the advertisement in the target geographic region; and adjusting weightings applied to the targeting factors based on the calculated profitability metric.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the targeting factors further comprise profitability metrics of prior patients.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the targeting factors further comprise average demographic metrics of individuals within each of the plurality of geographic regions within the travel threshold.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the demographic metrics of individuals comprise one or more of: age, gender, marital status, number of children, race, occupation, and education level.
15. A computer-implemented method for targeted acquisition of clients, comprising: detecting that a client has received professional services from a professional service provider; requesting that the client provide a review for posting on a website containing reviews of many professional service provides; identifying a target geographic region for targeted advertisement based on a weighted function of targeting factors for each of a plurality of geographic regions within a travel threshold of an office of the professional service provider; authorizing distribution of an advertisement within the target geographic region; calculating a profitability metric of new clients acquired via the advertisement in the target geographic region; and adjusting the weightings applied to the targeting factors based on the calculated profitability metric.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the targeting factors comprise: profitability metrics of prior clients that live in each of the plurality of geographic regions; average household income metrics for households in each of the plurality of geographic regions; estimated total market share metrics of services offered by the professional service provider in each of the plurality of geographic regions; and estimated percentage metrics of the total market share of the services already captured by the professional service provider in each of the plurality of geographic regions.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the targeting factors further comprise demographic metrics for each of the plurality of geographic regions.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the demographic metrics comprise one or more of: age, gender, marital status, number of children, race, occupation, and education level.
19. The method of claim 15, further comprising: training a machine learning model with associations between weightings applied to the targeting factors and calculated profitability metrics of the clients acquired via the advertisement distributed within the target geographic region.
20. The method of claim 15, further comprising: distinguishing between positive and negative reviews provided by the clients requested to provide reviews; and posting only the positive reviews to the website containing reviews.
</claims>
</document>
