<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/6869,G16B25/00,G16B40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FREENOME HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SINGER MICHAEL
DELUBAC, Daniel
HAQUE, Imran S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67395641
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR ABNORMALITY DETECTION IN THE PATTERNS OF NUCLEIC ACIDS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, media, methods, and kits disclosed herein can improve analysis capabilities of genomic materials. Results from such analyses can be used to detect genomic biomarkers in one or more genomic materials. The systems, media, methods and kits disclosed herein can identify changes or patterns among samples, and can employ machine learning methods to explore changes or potential changes in biological conditions or risks thereof. Further, the systems, media, methods and kits disclosed herein can utilize machine learning algorithms to analyze samples with high accuracy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-74. (canceled)
75. A method for processing a nucleic acid sample of a subject, comprising: (a) using a probe set comprising probes having sequence complementarity with a plurality of regulatory elements to enrich for nucleic acid sequences in said nucleic acid sample, wherein said nucleic acid sequences comprise at least a subset of said plurality of regulatory elements, thereby providing an enriched nucleic acid sample; (b) directing said enriched nucleic acid sample or a derivative thereof to nucleic acid sequencing to generate a plurality of sequence reads comprising sequences that align with said subset of said plurality of regulatory elements; (c) computer processing said plurality of sequence reads to determine an expression profile of genes operably linked to said subset of said plurality of regulatory elements; and (d) using said expression profile of genes to identify a disease in said subject at an accuracy of at least 90%.
76. The method of claim 75, wherein said regulatory elements are transcriptional start sites (TSS), enhancer sites, silencers, promoters, operators, untranslated regions (UTR), leader sequences (5′ UTR), trailer sequences (3′ UTR), terminators, or any combination thereof.
77. The method of claim 75, further comprising, prior to (b), processing said nucleic acid sample with a plurality of barcodes.
78. The method of claim 77, wherein said plurality of barcodes comprises unique molecular identifiers.
79. The method of claim 75, wherein said regulatory elements are microRNA (miRNA) regulatory elements, messenger RNA (mRNA) regulatory elements, small interfering RNA regulatory elements, (siRNA) regulatory elements, piwi-interacting RNA (piRNA) regulatory elements, small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA) regulatory elements, small nuclear RNA (snRNA) regulatory elements, extracellular RNA (exRNA) regulatory elements, small Cajal body-specific RNA (scaRNA) regulatory elements, non-coding RNA (ncRNA) regulatory elements, or any combination thereof.
80. The method of claim 75, wherein said computer processing of said plurality of sequence reads is using statistics, mathematics, or biology.
81. The method of claim 75, wherein said computer processing of said plurality of sequence reads is a dimension reduction method.
82. The method of claim 81, wherein said dimension reduction method is principal component analysis, autoencoding, singular value decomposition, Fourier bases, wavelets, or discriminant analysis.
83. The method of claim 75, wherein said computer processing of said plurality of sequence reads comprises a supervised machine learning method, wherein said supervised machine learning method is a regression, support vector machine, tree-based method, neural network, or nearest neighbor method.
84. The method of claim 75, wherein said computer processing method comprises an unsupervised machine learning method, wherein said unsupervised machine learning method is clustering, neural network, principal component analysis, or matrix factorization.
85. The method of claim 75, wherein said plurality of regulatory elements comprises a first set of regulatory elements having below-average enrichment efficiency and a second set of regulatory elements having above-average enrichment efficiency, and wherein said probe set comprises a first set of probe sequences that targets said first set of regulatory elements and a second set of probe sequences that targets said second set of regulatory elements.
86. The method of claim 75, further comprising quantifying sequencing reads of said plurality of regulatory elements to determine the availability of said plurality of regulatory elements.
87. The method of claim 75, further comprising determining a nucleosomal occupancy of said plurality of regulatory elements to determine the availability of said plurality of regulatory elements.
88. The method of claim 75, wherein said subject is a subject with cancer.
89. The method of claim 75, wherein said subject is a subject without cancer.
90. A system comprising a computer processor, wherein said computer processor is programmed to: (a) enrich for nucleic acid sequences in a nucleic acid sample from a subject, wherein said nucleic acid sequences comprise at least a subset of a plurality of regulatory elements, thereby providing an enriched nucleic acid sample; (b) sequence said enriched nucleic acid sample or a derivative thereof to generate a plurality of sequence reads comprising sequences that align with said subset of said plurality of regulatory elements; (c) process said plurality of sequence reads to determine an expression profile of genes operably linked to said subset of said plurality of regulatory elements; and (d) using at least said expression profile of genes to identify a disease in said subject at an accuracy of at least 90%.
91. The system of claim 90, wherein said regulatory elements are transcriptional start sites (TSS), enhancer sites, silencers, promoters, operators, untranslated regions (UTR), leader sequences (5′ UTR), trailer sequences (3′ UTR), terminators, or any combination thereof.
92. The system of claim 90, wherein said computer processor is further programmed to, prior to (b), process said nucleic acid sample with a plurality of barcodes.
93. The system of claim 92, wherein said plurality of barcodes comprises unique molecular identifiers.
94. The system of claim 90, wherein said regulatory elements are microRNA (miRNA) regulatory elements, messenger RNA (mRNA) regulatory elements, small interfering RNA (siRNA) regulatory elements, piwi-interacting RNA (piRNA) regulatory elements, small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA) regulatory elements, small nuclear RNA (snRNA) regulatory elements, extracellular RNA (exRNA) regulatory elements, small Cajal body-specific RNA (scaRNA) regulatory elements, non-coding RNA (ncRNA) regulatory elements, or any combination thereof.
95. The system of claim 90, wherein said processing of said plurality of sequence reads is against a reference sequence.
96. The system of claim 90, wherein said processing of said plurality of sequence reads is using statistics, mathematics, or biology.
97. The system of claim 90, wherein said processing of said plurality of sequence reads is a dimension reduction method.
98. The system of claim 97, wherein said dimension reduction method is principal component analysis, autoencoding, singular value decomposition, Fourier bases, wavelets, or discriminant analysis.
99. The system of claim 90, wherein said processing of said plurality of sequence reads comprises a supervised machine learning method, wherein said supervised machine learning method is a regression, support vector machine, tree-based method, neural network, or nearest neighbor method.
100. The system of claim 90, wherein said processing of said plurality of sequence reads comprises an unsupervised machine learning method, wherein said unsupervised machine learning method is clustering, neural network, principal component analysis, or matrix factorization.
</claims>
</document>
