<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ARISTA NETWORKS
</assignee>

<inventors>
Bolding, Allan Frederick
Chaskar, Hemant M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72423533
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTOMATICALLY CONFIGURING NETWORK ISOLATION
</title>

<abstract>
The system and methods described herein provided for automatically configuring a network port at a first network device with isolation parameter. A network device receives a network access message that includes network access parameters to be used when a second network device communicates with the first network device. The network device determines network isolation parameter based on the network access parameters to be used for a plurality of network packets received from the second network device. The network device determines whether the port of the network device is configured with the network isolation parameter, and, if not so configured, the network device automatically configures the port with the network isolation parameter.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for automatically configuring a network port at a first network device with isolation parameters, the method comprising: receiving, at the network port of the first network device from a second network device, a network access message, wherein the network access message comprises network access parameters to be used when the second network device communicates with the first network device; determining, at the first network device, a network isolation parameter based on the network access parameters, wherein the network isolation parameter is to be used for a plurality of network packets received at the first network device from the second network device; determining, at the first network device, whether the network port of the first network device is configured with the network isolation parameter; and in response to determining that the network port of the first network device is not configured with the network isolation parameter, the first network device automatically configuring the network port of the first network device with the network isolation parameter.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein network access parameters comprise one or more virtual local area network identifiers and wherein determining the network isolation parameter based on the network access parameters comprises performing a lookup of association between the one or more virtual local area network identifiers and one of more virtual extensible local area network identifiers.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising retrieving, by the first network device from a management server, a data structure comprising a plurality of associations between virtual local area network identifiers and virtual extensible local area network identifiers.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein network access parameters comprise traffic class information associated with a plurality of network access devices connected to the second network device and wherein determining the network isolation parameter based on the network access parameters comprises: retrieving a mapping between a plurality of traffic classes and a plurality of virtual local area network identifiers; and determining which virtual local area network identifiers from the plurality of virtual local area network identifiers are mapped to the one or more traffic classes.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the network isolation parameter based on the network access parameters comprises: retrieving a set of rules for mapping a plurality of network access parameters to a plurality of network isolation parameters; and running the set of rules against the network access parameters to obtain the network isolation parameter from the plurality of network isolation parameters.
6. 6-9. (canceled)
10. The method of claim 5, further comprising applying one or more enforcement rules to the network port of the first network device.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more enforcement rules comprise traffic access control list rules.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the traffic access control list rules are based on one or more parameters selected from the group consisting of internet protocol address, protocol identifier, protocol port identifier, physical port identifier, and virtual local area network identifier.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein automatically configuring the network port of the first network device with the network isolation parameter comprises: determining a virtual extensible local area network identifier based on the network isolation parameter; determining whether a virtual extensible local area network tunnel is open on the network port of the first network device; and opening, in response to determining that a virtual extensible local area network tunnel is not open on the network port of the first network device, a virtual extensible local area network tunnel on the network port of the first network device using the virtual extensible local area network identifier.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from the second network device, a second network access message indicating that network isolation for network traffic originating from a plurality of network access devices associated with the network isolation parameter is not needed on the network port of the first network device; determining whether the network port of the first network device is configured with the network isolation parameter; removing, in response to determining that the network port of the first network device is configured with the network isolation parameter, configuration associated with the network isolation parameter from the network port of the first network device.
15. A system for automatically configuring a network port at a first network device with isolation parameters, the system comprising: a network isolation engine configured to provide a network isolation parameter based on network access parameters, wherein the network isolation parameter is to be used for a plurality of network packets received at the first network device from a second network device; and a network interface configured to: receive, on the network port of the first network device, a network access message from the second network device, wherein the network access message comprises the network access parameters to be used when the second network device communicates with the first network device; obtain the network isolation parameter from the network isolation engine by communicating the network access parameters to the network isolation engine; determine, at the first network device, whether the network port is configured with the network isolation parameter; and in response to determining that the network port of the first network device is not configured with the network isolation parameter, the first network device automatically configures its network port with the network isolation parameter.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein network access parameters comprise one or more virtual local area network identifiers and wherein the network isolation engine is configured to determine network isolation parameter based on the network access parameters by performing a lookup of association between the one or more virtual local area network identifiers and one of more virtual extensible local area network identifiers.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the network isolation engine is further configured to retrieve, from a management server, a data structure comprising a plurality of associations between virtual local area network identifiers and virtual extensible local area network identifiers.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein network access parameters comprise traffic class information associated with a plurality of network access devices connected to the second network device and wherein the network isolation engine is configured to determine network isolation parameter based on the network access parameters by: retrieving a mapping between a plurality of traffic classes and a plurality of virtual local area network identifiers; and determining which virtual local area network identifiers from the plurality of virtual local area network identifiers are mapped to the one or more traffic classes.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the network isolation engine is configured to determine network isolation parameter based on the network access parameters by: retrieving a set of rules for mapping a plurality of network access parameters to a plurality of network isolation parameters; and running the set of rules against the network access parameters to obtain the network isolation parameter from the plurality of network isolation parameters.
20. 20-23. (canceled)
24. The system of claim 19, further comprising applying one or more enforcement rules to the network port of the first network device.
25. The system of claim 24, wherein the one or more enforcement rules comprise traffic access control list rules.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the traffic access control list rules are based on one or more parameters selected from the group consisting of internet protocol address, protocol identifier, protocol port identifier, physical port identifier, and virtual local area network identifier.
27. The system of claim 15, wherein the network interface is configured to automatically configure the network port of the first network device with the network isolation parameter by: determining a virtual extensible local area network identifier based on the network isolation parameter; determining whether a virtual extensible local area network tunnel is open on the network port of the first network device; and opening, in response to determining that a virtual extensible local area network tunnel is not open on the network port of the first network device, a virtual extensible local area network tunnel on the network port of the first network device using the virtual extensible local area network identifier.
28. The system of claim 15, wherein the network interface is further configured to: receive, from the second network device, a second network access message indicating that network isolation for network traffic originating from a plurality of network access devices associated with the network isolation parameter is not needed on the network port of the first network device; determine whether the network port of the first network device is configured with the network isolation parameter; remove, in response to determining that the network port of the first network device is configured with the network isolation parameter, configuration associated with the network isolation parameter from the network port of the first network device.
29. 29-56. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
