<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01M13/00,G06N20/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HITACHI
</assignee>

<inventors>
GAUR, SUDHANSHU
MAEDA, Daisuke
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73456731
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR EXTRACTING SIGNAL IN PRESENCE OF STRONG NOISE
</title>

<abstract>
Example implementations described herein are directed to systems and methods for extracting signal in presence of strong noise for industrial Internet of Things (IoT) system especially for monitoring systems of consumable items such as lathe machines, coolers and so on. Example implementations can utilize a sawtooth mother Wavelet instead of usual wavelet analysis to cleanse the incoming sensor data, thereby allowing for the converting sensor data to feature values despite having heavy noise interference.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device communicatively coupled to one or more sensing devices and to a server, the device comprising: a processor, configured to: convert sensor data received from the one or more sensing devices into frequency component data, the frequency component data comprising measurements on one or more parameters indicative of degradation for another device associated with the one or more sensing devices; execute a correlation process on the frequency component data to identify one or more frequency bands that are correlated with a sawtooth pattern; and provide one or more feature values that are extracted from the sensor data with a band limitation within the one or more frequency bands, to the server.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the correlation process comprises executing a wavelet transform on the frequency component data.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the executing the wavelet transform on the frequency component data comprises correlating the frequency component data to a sawtooth mother wavelet.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensing devices are wideband sensors, wherein the processor is further configured to receive second sensor data from a narrowband sensor and provide the one or more feature values that are extracted from the sensor data of the one or more wideband sensors with the band limitation within the one or more frequency bands and from the second sensor data from the narrowband sensor, to the server.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to conduct calibration before converting the sensor data to frequency component data by: providing the sensor data to the server; and receiving, from the server, one or more patterns corresponding to the sensor data; wherein the processor is configured to convert the sensor data into the frequency component data through application of a band pass filtering based on the one or more frequency bands received from the server
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: execute a machine learning algorithm on the one or more feature values to determine degradation of the another device; and provide information associated with the degradation of the another device to the server.
7. A method for a system involving a device communicatively coupled to one or more sensing devices and to a server, the method comprising: converting sensor data received from the one or more sensing devices into frequency component data, the frequency component data comprising measurements on one or more parameters indicative of degradation for another device associated with the one or more sensing devices; executing a correlation process on the frequency component data to identify one or more frequency bands that are correlated with a sawtooth pattern; and providing the one or more feature values that are extracted from the sensor data with a band limitation within the one or more frequency bands to the server.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the correlation process comprises executing a wavelet transform on the frequency component data.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the executing the wavelet transform on the frequency component data comprises correlating the frequency component data to a sawtooth mother wavelet.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the one or more sensing devices are wideband sensors, wherein the method further comprises receiving second sensor data from a narrowband sensor and providing the second sensor data with the one or more feature values that are extracted from the sensor data of the one or more wideband sensors with the band limitation within the one or more frequency bands and from the second sensor data from the narrowband sensor, to the server.
11. The method of claim 7, further comprising conducting calibration before converting the sensor data to frequency component data, the calibration comprising: providing the sensor data to the server; and receiving, from the server, one or more patterns corresponding to the sensor data; wherein the processor is configured to convert the sensor data into the frequency component data through application of a band pass filtering based on the one or more frequency bands received from the server.
12. The method of claim 7, further comprising: executing a machine learning algorithm on the one or more feature values to determine degradation of the another device; and providing information associated with the degradation of the another device to the server.
13. A system, comprising: a server; one or more sensing devices; and a device communicatively coupled to the one or more sensing devices and the server, the device comprising: a processor, configured to: convert sensor data received from the one or more sensing devices into frequency component data, the frequency component data comprising measurements on one or more parameters indicative of degradation for another device associated with the one or more sensing devices; execute a correlation process on the frequency component data to identify one or more frequency bands that are correlated with a sawtooth pattern; and provide the one or more feature values that are extracted from the data of both wideband sensor with a band limitation with the one or more frequency bands and the narrowband sensor to the server.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the correlation process comprises executing a wavelet transform on the frequency component data.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the executing the wavelet transform on the frequency component data comprises correlating the frequency component data to a sawtooth mother wavelet.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more sensing devices are wideband sensors, wherein the processor is configured to receive second sensor data from a narrowband sensor and provide the second sensor data with the one or more feature values that are extracted from the sensor data of the one or more wideband sensors with the band limitation within the one or more frequency bands and from the second sensor data from the narrowband sensor, to the server.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to conduct calibration before converting the sensor data to frequency component data, by: providing the sensor data to the server; and receiving, from the server, one or more patterns corresponding to the sensor data; wherein the processor is configured to convert the sensor data into the frequency component data through application of a band pass filtering based on the one or more frequency bands received from the server.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the processor is configured to: execute a machine learning algorithm on the one or more feature values to determine degradation of the another device; and provide information associated with the degradation of the another device to the server; wherein the server is configured to provide instructions to the another device associated with the one or more sensing devices based on the information associated with the degradation of the another device.
</claims>
</document>
