<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/42,G01S7/41,G06F3/01,G09G5/38,H04M1/725
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMIHOOD, PATRICK M.
BARBELLO, BRANDON
GIUSTI, LEONARDO
POUPYREV, IVAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67770566
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Smartphone Providing Radar-Based Proxemic Context
</title>

<abstract>
This document describes techniques and systems that enable a smartphone providing radar-based proxemic context. The techniques and systems use a radar field to accurately determine a user's location and/or physical orientation with respect to an electronic device, such as a smartphone. The radar field also enables the device to receive 3D gestures from the user to interact with the device. The techniques allow the device to provide functionality based on the user's presence and/or orientation, and to appropriately adjust the timing, content, and format of the device's interactions with the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device, comprising: a radar system, implemented at least partially in hardware, configured to: provide a radar field; sense reflections from a user in the radar field; analyze the reflections from the user in the radar field; and provide, based on the analysis of the reflections, radar data; one or more computer processors; and one or more computer-readable media having instructions stored thereon that, responsive to execution by the one or more computer processors, perform operations comprising: determining, based on a first subset of the radar data, a presence of the user within an awareness distance of the electronic device; determining, based on a second subset of the radar data, whether the user is alone within the awareness distance of the electronic device; responsive to determining that the user is within the awareness distance and whether the user is alone within the awareness distance of the electronic device, determining a proxemic context of the user; and providing the proxemic context of the user to one or more other electronic devices.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein: the proxemic context of the user comprises a status of the user with respect to the electronic device; and the status of the user with respect to the electronic device includes: available, the status of available indicating that the user is alone within the awareness distance of the electronic device; busy, the status of busy indicating that the user is within the awareness distance of the electronic device and the user is not alone; or away, the status of away indicating that the user is not within the awareness distance of the electronic device.
3. The electronic device of claim 2, wherein providing the proxemic context of the user to the one or more other electronic devices further comprises providing a status indicator that: is configured to be displayed with the user's contact information on the one or more other electronic devices; and indicates the status of the user with respect to the electronic device.
4. The electronic device of claim 3, wherein the operations further comprise providing, to the one or more other electronic devices, selectable controls configured to be displayed with the user's contact information, the selectable controls including at least one of: a first selectable control configured to cause the one or more other electronic devices to send a message to the electronic device; a second selectable control configured to cause the one or more other electronic devices to place a call to the electronic device; a third selectable control configured to cause the one or more other electronic devices to place a call to the electronic device when the status of the user with respect to the electronic device changes from busy or away to available; or a fourth selectable control configured to cause the electronic device and the one or more other electronic devices to simultaneously receive calls from each other when the status of the user with respect to the electronic device changes from busy or away to available.
5. The electronic device of claim 4, wherein providing, to the one or more other electronic devices, selectable controls configured to be displayed with the user's contact information further comprises providing one or more of the first selectable control, the second selectable control, the third selectable control, or the fourth selectable control, based on user input through the electronic device.
6. The electronic device of claim 2, wherein providing the proxemic context of the user to the one or more other electronic devices further comprises communicating the proxemic context using a text message to the one or more other electronic devices.
7. The electronic device of claim 6, wherein the text message includes selectable controls usable for contacting the user, the selectable controls including at least one of: a first selectable control configured to cause the one or more other electronic devices to send a message to the electronic device; a second selectable control configured to cause the one or more other electronic devices to place a call to the electronic device; a third selectable control configured to cause the one or more other electronic devices to place a call to the electronic device when the status of the user with respect to the electronic device changes from busy or away to available; or a fourth selectable control configured to cause the electronic device and the one or more other electronic devices to simultaneously receive calls from each other when the status of the user with respect to the electronic device changes from busy or away to available.
8. The electronic device of claim 7, wherein communicating the proxemic context using the text message to the one or more other electronic devices further comprises determining, based on user input through the electronic device, that one or more of the first selectable control, the second selectable control, the third selectable control, or the fourth selectable control are to be included in the text message.
9. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: determining, based on a user input, the one or more other electronic devices that are provided the proxemic context of the user; or determining, based on a default setting of the electronic device, the one or more other electronic devices that are provided the proxemic context of the user.
10. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein: the second subset of the radar data and the first subset of the radar data are a same subset of the radar data; the second subset of the radar data does not include radar data of the first subset of the radar data; or the second subset of the radar data includes at least a portion of the first subset of the radar data.
11. An electronic device, comprising; one or more computer processors; and one or more computer-readable media having instructions stored thereon that, responsive to execution by the one or more computer processors, perform operations comprising: receiving, from another electronic device that includes a radar system, a proxemic context of a user of the other electronic device, the proxemic context of the user determined based on one or more subsets of radar data provided by the radar system and comprising a status of the user with respect to the other electronic device; and presenting, on a display of the electronic device and associated with the user's contact information, a status indicator that indicates the status of the user with respect to the other electronic device.
12. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the status of the user with respect to the other electronic device includes: available, the status of available indicating that the user is alone within an awareness distance of the other electronic device; busy, the status of busy indicating that the user is within the awareness distance of the other electronic device and the user is not alone; or away, the status of away indicating that the user is not within the awareness distance of the other electronic device.
13. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein presenting the status indicator further comprises displaying the status indicator with the user's contact information on the display of the electronic device.
14. The electronic device of claim 13, wherein displaying the status indicator with the user's contact information on the display of the electronic device further comprises displaying selectable controls for contacting the user, the selectable controls displayed with the user's contact information and including at least one of: a first selectable control that when selected causes the electronic device to send a message to the other electronic device; a second selectable control that when selected causes the electronic device to place a call to the other electronic device; a third selectable control that when selected causes the electronic device to place a call to the other electronic device when the status of the user with respect to the other electronic device changes from busy or away to available; or a fourth selectable control that when selected causes the electronic device and the other electronic device to simultaneously receive calls from each other when the status of the user with respect to the other electronic device changes from busy or away to available.
15. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the one or more subsets of radar data are subsets of radar data that are provided by the radar system of the other device, the radar system implemented at least partially in hardware, and configured to: provide a radar field, sense reflections from the user in the radar field, analyze the reflections from the user in the radar field, and provide, based on the analysis of the reflections, the radar data.
16. A method implemented in an electronic device that includes a radar system, the method comprising: providing, by the radar system, a radar field; sensing, by the radar system, reflections from a user in the radar field; analyzing the reflections from the user in the radar field; providing, based on the analysis of the reflections, radar data; determining, based on a first subset of the radar data, a presence of the user within an awareness distance of the electronic device; determining, based on a second subset of the radar data, whether the user is alone within the awareness distance of the electronic device; responsive to determining that the user is within the awareness distance and whether the user is alone within the awareness distance of the electronic device, determining a proxemic context of the user; and providing the proxemic context of the user to one or more other electronic devices.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the proxemic context of the user comprises a status of the user with respect to the electronic device and the status of the user with respect to the electronic device includes: available, the status of available indicating that the user is alone within the awareness distance of the electronic device; busy, the status of busy indicating that the user is within the awareness distance of the electronic device and the user is not alone; or away, the status of away indicating that the user is not within the awareness distance of the electronic device.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein providing the proxemic context of the user to one or more other electronic devices further comprises providing a status indicator that is configured to be presented with the user's contact information on respective displays of the one or more other electronic devices and indicates the status of the user with respect to the electronic device, and the method further comprises: providing, to the one or more other electronic devices, selectable controls configured to be displayed with the user's contact information, the selectable controls including at least one of: a first selectable control configured to cause the one or more other electronic devices to send a message to the electronic device; a second selectable control configured to cause the one or more other electronic devices to place a call to the electronic device; a third selectable control configured to cause the one or more other electronic devices to place a call to the electronic device when the status of the user with respect to the electronic device changes from busy or away to available; or a fourth selectable control configured to cause the electronic device and the one or more other electronic devices to simultaneously receive calls from each other when the status of the user with respect to the electronic device changes from busy or away to available.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein: the electronic device includes a non-radar sensor; and the status of the user with respect to the electronic device also includes a status of mobile, the status of mobile determined based at least in part on data from the non-radar sensor and indicating that the user in not alone and traveling in a vehicle.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the non-radar sensor comprises at least one of a geo-location sensor or a detection sensor that can detect when the electronic device is operating in a hands-free driving mode.
</claims>
</document>
