<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A47L15/00,A47L15/42,A47L15/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MIDEA
</assignee>

<inventors>
FAWAZ, BASSAM
DIGMAN, ROBERT M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74038372
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISHWASHER INCLUDING RACK POSITION SENSOR TO CONTROL CAPTURE OF RACK IMAGES BY A CAMERA
</title>

<abstract>
A dishwasher utilizes one or more sensors capable of detecting when a rack is at an operative position at which the rack is positioned within the wash tub during washing and/or an extended position at which at least a portion of the rack is extended beyond the wash tub for loading or unloading of utensils, thereby allowing image captures by a camera to be timed relative to the movement of the rack into, between and/or away from the operative and/or extended positions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A dishwasher, comprising: a wash tub; a rack disposed in the wash tub and configured to support a plurality of utensils to be washed, the rack being movable between first and second positions, one of the first and second positions being an operative position at which the rack is positioned within the wash tub during washing and the other of the first and second positions being an extended position at which at least a portion of the rack is extended beyond the wash tub for loading or unloading of utensils; a camera directed toward the rack when the rack is disposed in one of the first and second positions; a sensor configured to detect when the rack is at one of the first and second positions; and a controller coupled to the camera and the sensor, the controller configured to detect that the rack is at one of the first and second positions using the sensor and in response thereto cause the camera to capture an image of the rack, the controller further configured to control one or more settings during a wash operation using the captured image.
2. The dishwasher of claim 1, wherein the rack has a range of travel, and wherein the first and second positions are disposed at opposite ends of the range of travel of the rack.
3. The dishwasher of claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises a magnetic sensor disposed on a wall of the wash tub.
4. The dishwasher of claim 3, wherein the magnetic sensor comprises a hall effect sensor.
5. The dishwasher of claim 3, wherein the rack includes a magnetic member disposed thereon and positioned to oppose the magnetic sensor at one of the first and second positions.
6. The dishwasher of claim 5, wherein the rack includes a plurality of wheels, and wherein the magnetic member is disposed on one of the plurality of wheels.
7. The dishwasher of claim 5, wherein the rack is height-adjustable between first and second heights, and wherein the magnetic sensor is dimensioned to detect the magnetic member when the rack is at each of the first and second heights.
8. The dishwasher of claim 1, wherein the sensor is a first sensor configured to detect when the rack is at the first position, and wherein the dishwasher further includes a second sensor configured to detect when the rack is at the second position.
9. The dishwasher of claim 1, wherein the rack is a first rack, wherein the sensor is a first sensor configured to detect when the first rack is at one of the first and second positions, and wherein the dishwasher further includes: a second rack being movable between third and fourth positions, one of the third and fourth positions being an operative position at which the second rack is positioned within the wash tub during a washing operation and the other of the third and fourth positions being an extended position at which at least a portion of the second rack is extended beyond the wash tub for loading or unloading of utensils; and a second sensor configured to detect when the second rack is at one of the first and second positions.
10. The dishwasher of claim 1, further comprising a door closing the wash tub and a door switch configured to detect when the door is closed, wherein the controller is further coupled to the door switch to detect whether the door is closed and to activate the camera and the sensor in response to detecting that the door has been opened.
11. The dishwasher of claim 1, wherein the first position is the extended position, wherein the camera is directed toward the rack when the rack is disposed in the first position, wherein the sensor is configured to detect when the rack is at the first position, and wherein the controller is configured to cause the camera to capture the image of the rack in response to detecting that the rack is at the first position using the sensor.
12. The dishwasher of claim 1, wherein the first position is the operative position and the second position is the extended position, wherein the camera is directed toward the rack when the rack is disposed in the second position, wherein the sensor is configured to detect when the rack is at the first position, and wherein the controller is configured to cause the camera to capture the image of the rack in response to detecting that the rack is no longer at the first position using the sensor.
13. The dishwasher of claim 12, wherein the controller is configured to cause the camera to capture the image of the rack in response to detecting that the rack is no longer at the first position by causing the camera to capture the image of the rack a predetermined delay after detecting that the rack is no longer at the first position.
14. The dishwasher of claim 1, wherein the first position is the operative position, wherein the camera is directed toward the rack when the rack is disposed in the first position, wherein the sensor is configured to detect when the rack is at the first position, and wherein the controller is configured to cause the camera to capture the image of the rack in response to detecting that the rack is at the first position using the sensor.
15. The dishwasher of claim 14, further comprising a light source disposed in the wash tub, and wherein the controller is configured to activate the light source to illuminate the wash tub when the camera captures the image.
16. The dishwasher of claim 14, wherein the controller is further configured to cause the camera to capture the image of the rack in response to detecting with the sensor that the rack has left the operative position and has thereafter returned to the operative position.
17. The dishwasher of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to control the one or more settings during the wash operation by controlling one or more of a duration, a number of cycles, a cycle duration, a wash temperature, a cycle type, a spray direction, or a detergent amount.
18. The dishwasher of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to cause the camera to capture an image in response to detecting with the sensor that the rack has entered the first or second position.
19. The dishwasher of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to cause the camera to capture an image in response to detecting with the sensor that the rack has left the first or second position.
20. A method of operating a dishwasher of a type including a wash tub and a rack disposed in the wash tub and configured to support a plurality of utensils to be washed, the rack being movable between first and second positions, one of the first and second positions being an operative position at which the rack is positioned within the wash tub during a washing and the other of the first and second positions being an extended position at which at least a portion of the rack is extended beyond the wash tub for loading or unloading of utensils, the method comprising, in a controller of the dishwasher: detecting when the rack is at one of the first and second positions using a sensor; in response thereof, causing a camera directed toward the rack when the rack is disposed in one of the first and second positions to capture an image of the rack; and controlling one or more settings during a wash operation using the captured image.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the first position is the extended position, wherein the camera is directed toward the rack when the rack is disposed in the first position, wherein the sensor is configured to detect when the rack is at the first position, and wherein causing the camera to capture the image of the rack is performed in response to detecting that the rack is at the first position.
22. The method of claim 20, wherein the first position is the operative position and the second position is the extended position, wherein the camera is directed toward the rack when the rack is disposed in the second position, wherein the sensor is configured to detect when the rack is at the first position, and wherein causing the camera to capture the image of the rack is performed in response to detecting that the rack is no longer at the first position.
23. The method of claim 20, wherein the first position is the operative position, wherein the camera is directed toward the rack when the rack is disposed in the first position, wherein the sensor is configured to detect when the rack is at the first position, and wherein causing the camera to capture the image of the rack is performed in response to detecting that the rack is at the first position.
</claims>
</document>
