<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/76
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VULCAN TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOORE, DAVID MARTIN
BENSLEY, JEREMY KYLE
DUNAGAN, PATRICK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69780350
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VESSEL RENDEZVOUS DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
A vessel rendezvous system obtains position data from each vessel of a plurality of vessels operating within a navigable area. Using the position data from each vessel, the vessel rendezvous system determines that a first vessel was engaged in an action with a second vessel within the navigable area. In response to this determination, the vessel rendezvous system provides an indication that the first vessel and the second vessel were engaged in the action within the navigable area.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: obtaining, from a fleet of vessels operating within a navigable area, transponder data for each vessel of the fleet of vessels; determining, based on the transponder data and environment data for the navigable area, that a first vessel from the fleet of vessels was engaged in a rendezvous within the navigable area; identifying, based on other transponder data for other vessels of the fleet of vessels, a set of second vessels suspected of having been engaged in the rendezvous with the first vessel; determining, for each second vessel of the set of second vessels, a score indicating whether the second vessel engaged in the rendezvous with the first vessel, resulting in a determination; and providing an indication that the rendezvous occurred, the indication including the determination.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: identifying, based on second transponder data of a vessel of the set of second vessels, a gap in the second transponder data indicative of a disabling of a transponder of the vessel; performing an interpolation of the second transponder data to obtain additional transponder data; and using the additional transponder data to determine that the vessel is suspected of having been engaged in the rendezvous.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: establishing, from a location of the rendezvous, a search radius within the navigable area; and identifying the set of second vessels as a result of second transponder data for the set of second vessels corresponding to presence of each second vessel within the search radius during the rendezvous.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the score is determined based on proximity of the second vessel to the first vessel during the rendezvous, a length of a period of time during which the proximity was maintained, and changes in headings of the first vessel and the second vessel.
5. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and memory that stores computer-executable instructions that, if executed, cause the system to: obtain position data from vessels of a plurality of vessels in an area; determine based on the position data, that a first vessel of the plurality of vessels engaged in an action with a second vessel of the plurality of vessels; and provide an indication that the first vessel engaged in the action.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the position data comprises transponder data transmitted using a transponder-based monitoring system.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the action is a rendezvous at a location that is conducive to activities unrelated to a profile of the first vessel and to a profile of the second vessel.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein the computer-executable instructions that cause the system to determine that the first vessel engaged in the action with the second vessel further cause the system to: identify, based on the position data, a location of the action; establish, from the location, a search radius for identifying other vessels engaged in the action; and determine that the first vessel and the second vessel engaged in the action as a result of proximity of the first vessel to the second vessel within the search radius during the action.
9. The system of claim 5, wherein the computer-executable instructions that cause the system to determine that the first vessel engaged in the action with the second vessel further cause the system to calculate a score indicating whether the first vessel engaged in the action with the second vessel.
10. The system of claim 5, wherein the computer-executable instructions that cause the system to obtain the position data from the vessels of the plurality of vessels further cause the system to: identify, based on vessel position data of a vessel of the plurality of vessels, a gap in the vessel position data that is indicative of a disabling of a transponder of the vessel; perform an interpolation of the vessel position data to obtain additional position data for the vessel; and use the additional position data to determine whether the vessel engaged in the action.
11. The system of claim 5, wherein the computer-executable instructions that cause the system to determine that the first vessel engaged in the action with the second vessel further cause the system to utilize first position data of the first vessel and second position data of the second vessel as input to a machine learning model configured to determine engagement in the action.
12. The system of claim 5, wherein the indication includes identifying information of the first vessel, information regarding the action, and identifying information of the second vessel suspected of having engaged in the action with the first vessel.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon executable instructions that, as a result of being executed by one or more processors of a computer system, cause the computer system to at least: obtain position data from each vessel of a plurality of vessels operating in an area; determine, based on the position data, that a first vessel of the plurality of vessels engaged in an action in the area; identify, based on a location and time period of the action and the position data, a second vessel of the plurality of vessels engaged in the action with the first vessel; and provide an indication that the first vessel engaged in the action.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the location is associated with activities unrelated to a profile of the first vessel and to a profile of the second vessel.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions that cause the computer system to identify the second vessel engaged in the action with the first vessel further cause the system to: identify, based on the position data, the location of the action; establish, from the location, a search radius for identifying other vessels engaged in the action; and identify the second vessel as a result of proximity of the second vessel to the first vessel within the search radius during the time period of the action.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions that cause the computer system to obtain the position data further cause the computer system to: identify, based on vessel position data of a vessel of the plurality of vessels, a gap in the vessel position data that is indicative of a disabling of a transponder of the vessel; perform an interpolation of the vessel position data to obtain additional position data for the vessel; and use the additional position data to determine whether the vessel engaged in the action.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the indication includes first identifying information of the first vessel, second identifying information of the second vessel, and information regarding the action.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions that cause the computer system to identify the second vessel further cause the system to: calculate, based on the location and time period of the action and the position data, a score indicating whether the second vessel engaged in the action with the first vessel; and use the score to determine that the second vessel engaged in the action with first vessel.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the position data comprises transponder data transmitted using a transponder-based monitoring system.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions that cause the computer system to identify the second vessel engaged in the action with the first vessel further cause the computer system to use first position data of the first vessel, second position data of the second vessel, data that indicates the location, and data that indicated the time period of the action as input to a machine learning model configured to determine engagement in the action.
</claims>
</document>
