<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G03F7/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KLA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
PREIL, MOSHE, E.
BIAFORE, JOHN J
VAGLIO PRET, ALESSANDRO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72747403
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Stochastic Reticle Defect Dispositioning
</title>

<abstract>
A system for stochastic reticle defect dispositioning is disclosed. The system includes a controller including one or more processors and memory. The one or more processors configured to acquire product metrology data of a product reticle. The one or more processors configured to perform one or more stochastic simulations based on the product metrology data to generate one or more simulated product samples including the pattern of elements. The one or more processors configured to generate a product model of the product reticle modeling the printing process of the pattern of elements by the product reticle. The one or more processors configured to identify at least one of a care area of the product reticle which is susceptible to printing stochastic defects on product samples, or a care area on the one or more simulated product samples which is susceptible to printed stochastic defects based on the product model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a controller including one or more processors configured to execute a set of program instructions stored in memory, the set of program instructions configured to cause the one or more processors to: acquire product metrology data of a product reticle, the product reticle configured to be used to print a pattern of elements on one or more product samples; perform one or more stochastic simulations of a printing process based on the product metrology data of the product reticle to generate one or more simulated product samples including the pattern of elements; generate a product model of the product reticle modeling the printing process of the pattern of elements by the product reticle; and identify at least one of a care area of the product reticle which is susceptible to printing stochastic defects on product samples, or a care area on the one or more simulated product samples which is susceptible to printed stochastic defects based on the product model.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to identify at least one of a care area of the product reticle which is susceptible to printing stochastic defects on product samples, or a care area on the one or more simulated product samples which is susceptible to printed stochastic defects by: acquiring reference metrology data of a pattern of elements to be printed on one or more reference samples; generating a reference model for the pattern of elements based on the reference metrology data; and identifying one or more differences between the product model and the reference model.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the acquiring reference metrology data of a pattern of elements to be printed on one or more reference samples comprises: acquiring one or more measurements of a reference reticle; performing one or more stochastic simulations of a printing process based on the one or more measurements of the reference reticle to generate one or more simulated reference samples; and acquiring simulated metrology data of the one or more simulated reference samples.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the reference model is generated based on the simulated metrology data.
5. The system of claim 2, wherein the acquiring reference metrology data of a pattern of elements to be printed on one or more reference samples comprises: causing a lithography sub-system to print the pattern of elements on the one or more reference samples with a reference reticle; and acquiring one or measurements of the pattern of elements on the one or more reference samples.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more stochastic simulations of the printing process are configured to simulate fabrication of the pattern of elements on the one or more simulated product samples.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more stochastic simulations comprise Monte Carlo simulations of the printing process.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the generating a product model of the product reticle modeling the printing process of the pattern of elements by the product reticle comprises: acquiring simulated metrology data of the one or more simulated product samples; and generating the product model based on the simulated metrology data.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to acquire the product metrology data of the product reticle by: directing a metrology sub-system to acquire one or more optical images of the product reticle or one or more scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images of the product reticle; receiving the one or more acquired images from the metrology sub-system; and generating the product metrology data based on the one or more acquired images.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to acquire the product metrology data of the product reticle by: retrieving design data of the product reticle; and acquiring the product metrology data of the product reticle based on the design data of the product reticle.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: determine a frequency of stochastic defects based on the care area of the product reticle or the care area of the one or more simulated product samples.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to: report a reticle disposition evaluation associated with the product reticle based on the frequency of stochastic defects.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the reticle disposition evaluation comprises a passing evaluation or a not-passing evaluation.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: generate one or more control signals configured to selectively adjust one or more characteristics of one or more process tools based on at least one of the care area of the product reticle or the care area of the one or more simulated product samples.
15. A system, comprising: a controller including one or more processors configured to execute a set of program instructions stored in memory, the set of program instructions configured to cause the one or more processors to: acquire reference metrology data of a pattern of elements to be printed on one or more reference samples; generate a reference model for the pattern of elements based on the reference metrology data; acquire product metrology data of a product reticle, the product reticle configured to be used to print the pattern of elements on one or more product samples; perform one or more stochastic simulations of a printing process based on the product metrology data of the product reticle to generate one or more simulated product samples including the pattern of elements; generate a product model for the product reticle modeling the printing process of the pattern of elements by the product reticle; identify one or more differences between the product model and the reference model; and identify, based on the one or more identified differences, at least one of a care area of the product reticle which is susceptible to printing stochastic defects on the one or more product samples, or a care area on the one or more product samples which is susceptible to printed stochastic defects.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the acquiring reference metrology data of a pattern of elements to be printed on one or more reference samples comprises: acquiring one or more measurements of a reference reticle; performing one or more stochastic simulations of a printing process based on the one or more measurements of the reference reticle to generate one or more simulated reference samples; and acquiring simulated metrology data of the one or more simulated reference samples.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the reference model is generated based on the simulated metrology data.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the acquiring reference metrology data of a pattern of elements to be printed on one or more reference samples comprises: causing one or more process tools to print the pattern of elements on the one or more reference samples with a reference reticle; and acquiring one or measurements of the pattern of elements on the one or more reference samples.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the generating a product model of the product reticle modeling the printing process of the pattern of elements by the product reticle comprises: acquiring simulated metrology data of the one or more simulated product samples; and generating the product model based on the simulated metrology data.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more stochastic simulations comprise Monte Carlo simulations of the printing process.
21. The system of claim 15, wherein the controller is configured to acquire the product metrology data of the product reticle by: directing a metrology sub-system to acquire one or more optical images of the product reticle or one or more scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images of the product reticle; receiving the one or more acquired images from the metrology sub-system; and generating the product metrology data based on the one or more acquired images.
22. The system of claim 15, wherein the controller is configured to acquire the product metrology data of the product reticle by: retrieving design data of the product reticle; and acquiring the product metrology data of the product reticle based on the design data of the product reticle.
23. The system of claim 15, wherein the controller is further configured to: determine a frequency of stochastic defects based on the care area of the product reticle or the care area of the one or more simulated product samples.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the controller is further configured to: report a reticle disposition evaluation associated with the product reticle based on the frequency of stochastic defects.
25. The system of claim 24, wherein the reticle disposition evaluation comprises a passing evaluation or a not-passing evaluation.
26. The system of claim 15, wherein the controller is further configured to: generate one or more control signals configured to selectively adjust one or more characteristics of one or more process tools based on at least one of the care area of the product reticle or the care area of the one or more simulated product samples.
27. A method for identifying stochastic defects, comprising: acquiring product metrology data of a product reticle, the product reticle configured to be used to print a pattern of elements on one or more product samples; performing one or more stochastic simulations of a printing process based on the product metrology data of the product reticle to generate one or more simulated product samples including the pattern of elements; generating a product model of the product reticle modeling the printing process of the pattern of elements by the product reticle; and identifying at least one of a care area of the product reticle which is susceptible to printing stochastic defects on product samples, or a care area on the one or more simulated product samples which is susceptible to printed stochastic defects.
28. A method for identifying stochastic defects, comprising: acquiring reference metrology data of a pattern of elements to be printed on one or more reference samples; generating a reference model for the pattern of elements based on the reference metrology data; acquiring product metrology data of a product reticle, the product reticle configured to be used to print the pattern of elements on one or more product samples; performing one or more stochastic simulations of a printing process based on the product metrology data of the product reticle to generate one or more simulated product samples including the pattern of elements; generating a product model for the product reticle modeling the printing process of the pattern of elements by the product reticle; identifying one or more differences between the product model and the reference model; identifying, based on the one or more identified differences, at least one of a care area of the product reticle which is susceptible to printing stochastic defects on the one or more product samples, or a care area on the one or more product samples which is susceptible to printed stochastic defects.
</claims>
</document>
