<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOLECULAR DEVICES CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
COHEN AVRUM
HONG, DIHUI
RHEIN, STEPHEN M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69719640
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR LABEL-FREE IDENTIFICATION AND CLASSIFICATION OF BIOLOGICAL SAMPLES
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method of analyzing a biological sample using an imaging system are disclosed. An image acquisition module instructs the imaging system to obtain a label free image of a training biological sample and in response receives a first training image. The image acquisition module also instructs the imaging system to cause the training biological sample to fluoresce and obtain an image of the training biological sample undergoing fluorescence, and in response receives a second training image. An analysis module analyzing the second training image to generate a plurality of training cell characteristics, wherein each of the plurality training cell characteristics is associated with one of a plurality of training cells that comprise the training biological sample. A training module trains a machine learning system using the first training image and the plurality of training cell characteristics to develop a trained machine learning system such that when the trained machine learning system is operated with the first training image as an input, the trained machine learning system generates a plurality of predicted cell characteristics that correspond to the plurality of training cell characteristics.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method of analyzing a biological sample using an imaging system comprising the steps of: causing a non-transitory programmable device to undertake the steps of: instructing the imaging system to obtain a label free image of a training biological sample and in response receiving a first training image; instructing the imaging system to cause the training biological sample to fluoresce and obtain an image of the training biological sample undergoing fluorescence, and in response receiving a second training image; analyzing the second training image to generate a plurality of training cell characteristics, wherein each of the plurality of training cell characteristics is associated with one of a plurality of training cells that comprise the training biological sample; and training a machine learning system using the first training image and the plurality of training cell characteristics to develop a trained machine learning system such that when the trained machine learning system is operated with the first training image as an input, the trained machine learning system generates a plurality of predicted cell characteristics that correspond to the plurality of training cell characteristics.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of predicted cell characteristics corresponds to one of the plurality of training cell characteristics and the non-transitory programmable device iteratively undertakes the step of training the machine learning system until the difference between each of the plurality of predicted cell characteristics and a corresponding one of the plurality of training cell characteristics is within a predetermined amount.
3. The method of claim 1, further causing the non-programmable transitory device to undertake the steps of receiving an image of the biological sample and operating the trained machine learning system with the image of the biological sample as an input and in response receiving a plurality of cell characteristics, wherein each one of the plurality of cell characteristics is associated with a cell of the biological sample.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein causing the non-programmable transitory device to undertake the step of receiving the plurality of cell characteristics comprises the step of receiving a cell characteristic for each pixel of the image of the biological sample.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the non-programmable transitory device undertakes the further step of processing the plurality of cell characteristics to develop metrics associated with the image of the biological sample.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the metrics comprise a count of one of a number of live cells, dead cells, particular organelles, and particular types of cells represented in the image of the biological sample.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein trained machine learning system comprises a first trained machine learning system and the non-transitory programmable device comprises a first non-transitory programmable device, and further including the step of causing the first non-programmable transitory device to undertake the further step of storing parameters associated with the first trained machine learning system, and causing a second non-transitory programmable device to undertake the step of configuring an untrained machine learning system with the stored parameters to develop a second trained machine learning system.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the non-transitory programmable device comprises a first non-transitory programmable device, and the method includes the further step of causing a second non-transitory programmable device to undertake the steps of receiving an image of the biological sample and operating the trained machine learning system with the image of the biological sample as an input and in response receiving a plurality of cell characteristics, wherein each one of the plurality of cell characteristics is associated with a cell of the biological sample.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein causing the non-transitory programmable device to train the machine learning system includes undertaking the step of training the machine learning system to analyze a particular type of biological sample for a particular type of characteristic.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the label free image is one of a series of label free images that represent a three-dimensional representation of the biological sample, and further including causing the non-transitory programmable device to train the machine learning system includes simultaneously providing all of the series of label free images to the machine learning system as an input.
11. A system for analyzing a biological sample using an imaging system comprising: a machine learning system operating on at least one non-transitory programmable device; an image acquisition module operating on the at least one of non-transitory programmable device(s) that instructs the imaging system to generate a label free image of a training biological sample and in response receives a first training image, and instructs the imaging system to cause the training biological sample to fluoresce and obtain an image of the training biological sample undergoing fluorescence, and in response receives a second training image; an analysis module operating on the at least one of non-transitory programmable device(s) that analyzes the second training image to generate a plurality of training cell characteristics, wherein each of the plurality training cell characteristics is associated with one of a plurality of training cells that comprise the training biological sample; and a training module operating on the at least one of the non-transitory programmable device(s) that train the machine learning system using the first training image and the plurality of training cell characteristics to develop a trained machine learning system such that when the trained machine learning system is operated with the first training image as an input, the trained machine learning system generates a plurality of predicted cell characteristics that correspond to the plurality of training cell characteristics.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein each of the plurality of predicted cell characteristics corresponds to one of the plurality of training cell characteristics and training module iteratively undertakes the step of training the machine learning system until the difference between each of the plurality of predicted cell characteristics and a corresponding one of the plurality of training cell characteristics is within a predetermined amount.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the image acquisition module receives an image of the biological sample and a measurement module operating on the at least one non-transitory programmable device operates the trained machine learning system with the image of the biological sample as an input and in response receives a plurality of cell characteristics, wherein each one of the plurality of cell characteristics is associated with a cell of the biological sample.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the measurement module operates on a non-transitory programmable device that is remote from at least one of the non-transitory programmable device on which the machine learning system, the image acquisition module, the analysis module, and the training module operate
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the plurality of cell characteristics comprises a cell characteristic associated with each pixel of the image of the biological sample.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the measurement module processes the plurality of cell characteristics to develop metrics associated with the image of the biological sample.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the trained machine learning system includes a first trained machine learning system, and further including a further image acquisition module and a measurement module operating on a second non-transitory programmable device, wherein the training module stores parameters associated with the first trained machine learning system, the second non-transitory programmable device configures an untrained machine learning system with the stored parameters to develop a second trained machine learning system, wherein the further image acquisition module receives an image of a biological sample and the measurement module operates the second trained machine learning system with the image as an input and in response receives characteristics associated with the biological sample.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the machine learning system comprises a convolutional neural network.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the training module trains the machine learning system to analyze a particular type of biological sample for a particular type of characteristic.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the label free image is one of a series of label free images that represent a three-dimensional representation of the biological sample, and the training module trains the machine learning system by simultaneously providing all of the series of label free images to the machine learning system as an input.
</claims>
</document>
