<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,G10L15/26,G10L17/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
JU, YUN-CHENG
RONEN, ROYI
STOLCKE ANDREAS
TURGMAN, AMI
Hauon, Edan
Poddar, Ashwarya
Nir, Oron
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70285876
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SPEAKER ROLE DETERMINATION AND SCRUBBING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods for speaker role determination and scrubbing identifying information are performed by systems and devices. In speaker role determination, data from an audio or text file is divided into respective portions related to speaking parties. Characteristics classifying the portions of the data for speaking party roles are identified in the portions to generate data sets from the portions corresponding to the speaking party roles and to assign speaking party roles for the data sets. For scrubbing identifying information in data, audio data for speaking parties is processed using speech recognition to generate a text-based representation. Text associated with identifying information is determined based on a set of key words/phrases, and a portion of the text-based representation that includes a part of the text is identified. A segment of audio data that corresponds to the identified portion is replaced with different audio data, and the portion is replaced with different text.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory that stores computer program instructions that are executable by the at least one processor, the computer program instructions configured to: a speech recognizer configured to: receive a file that includes audio data of one or more speaking parties, and generate a text-based representation of the audio data via automatic speech recognition; a context determiner configured to determine text associated with identifying information in the text-based representation based on a set of key phrases; a text identifier configured to identify a portion of the text-based representation that includes a part of the text; and a scrubber configured to replace a segment of the audio data that corresponds to the portion of the text-based representation with different audio data.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the scrubber is configured to: replace the portion of the text-based representation with different text.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the context determiner is configured to: determine a context of at least one of the text or other text associated with the text; and determine a range of characters for the scrubber, to replace the segment, based on the context and the text.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein a context for the text comprises a characteristic of the text from at least one of a character length of the text, a character type of the text, or a phrase included in the other text.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the context determiner is configured to: identify a boundary of identifying information based on the context; and determine the range of characters based on the boundary of identifying information.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the context determiner is configured to: determine the range of characters based on a maximum, predefined range for a type of identifying information in the text.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the scrubber is configured to: replace the segment based on timing information of the generated text-based representation.
8. A computer-implemented method, comprising: generating a text-based representation of audio data from a file via automatic speech recognition, the audio data including data of one or more speaking parties; determining text associated with identifying information in the text-based representation based on a set of key phrases; identifying a portion of the text-based representation that includes a part of the text; and replacing a segment of the audio data that corresponds to the portion of the text-based representation with different audio data.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising: replacing the portion of the text-based representation with different text that is not associated with the identifying information.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising: determining a context of at least one of the text or other text associated with the text; and determining a range of characters to replace the segment based on the context and the text.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein a context for the text comprises a characteristic of the text from at least one of a character length of the text, a character type of the text, or a phrase included in the other text.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying a boundary of identifying information based on the context; and determining the range of characters based on the boundary of identifying information.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising: determining the range of characters based on a maximum, predefined range for a type of identifying information in the text.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising: replacing the segment based on timing information of the generated text-based representation.
15. A computer-readable storage medium having program instructions recorded thereon that, when executed by a processing device, perform a method for scrubbing identifying information from audio and textual data, the method comprising: generating a text-based representation of audio data from a file via automatic speech recognition, the audio data including data of one or more speaking parties; determining text associated with identifying information in the text-based representation based on a set of key phrases; identifying a portion of the text-based representation that includes a part of the text; and storing modified audio data or a modified text-based representation based on removal of the identifying information.
16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises at least one of: replacing a segment of the audio data that corresponds to the portion of the text-based representation with different audio data that prevents determination of the identifying information; or replacing the portion of the text-based representation with different text that prevents determination of the identifying information.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises replacing the segment based on timing information of the generated text-based representation.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises: determining a context of at least one of the text or other text associated with the text; and determining a range of characters to replace the segment based on the context and the text.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein a context for the text comprises a characteristic of the text from at least one of a character length of the text, a character type of the text, or a phrase included in the other text, and wherein the method further comprises: identifying a boundary of identifying information based on the context; and determining the range of characters based on the boundary of identifying information.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the method further comprises: determining the range of characters based on a maximum, predefined range for a type of identifying information in the text.
</claims>
</document>
