<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N99/00,G09B7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACT COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MEISNER, RICHARD D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69884976
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED COMPONENT-BASED STIMULUS GENERATION FOR ADAPTIVE ASSESSMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A comprehensive assessment is generated from sources of information. A base stimulus on a broad topic is received, wherein the base stimulus consists of components in the sources of information. Shorter stimuli are generated by selecting components from the base stimulus. The base stimulus may contain content for any type of subject, wherein the content is any combination of text, numbers, tables, charts, figures, audio clips, video clips, etc. The components for each sub-stimulus can be selected and rearranged based on examinee's performance and ability.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for improving customization of automated generation of stimulus-based assessment pertaining to a topic, the method comprising: connecting, by an access logical circuit, to one or more information sources; extracting, by an analytics logical circuit, a set of contents from the one or more information sources; dividing, by a faceting logical circuit, the extracted set of contents into a first number of components and a second number of components, wherein the first number of components is larger than the second number of components; extracting, by the faceting logical circuit, one or more questions from the one or more information sources, wherein the extracted one or more questions are directed to the extracted set of contents; receiving, at a first graphical user interface, a base stimulus, wherein the base stimulus contains the first number of components with the topic and a first set of questions of the extracted one or more questions associated with each component of the first number of components; generating, by the analytics logical circuit, sub-stimuli to the base stimulus, wherein the sub-stimuli contain the second number of components and a second set of questions of the extracted one or more questions associated with each component of the second number of components; transmitting, by an assessment logical circuit, the selected sub-stimulus components and the extracted one or more questions to a second graphical user interface; and displaying, at the second graphical user interface, the selected sub-stimulus components and the second set of questions to examinees.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprises: modifying, by the analytics logical circuit, the extracted set of contents by editing at least one of: a length and a language of the set of extracted contents.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the questions is characterized as having low, medium, or high difficulty, based on determinations made by the analytics logical circuit.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first number of components and the second number of components are in a textual, numerical, visual, or an audio format.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein a desired number of sub-stimuli is configured in the first graphical user interface.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprises: rearranging, by the faceting logical circuit, the extracted set of contents from the one or more information sources; and modifying, by the faceting logical circuit, the first set of components and the second set of components, in response to rearranging the extracted set of contents.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein a total number of possible sub-stimuli is computed by:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?[(The First Number of Components)!]/[(The First Number of Components−The Second Number of Components)!(The Second Number of Components)!].description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"?
8. A computer program product for improving customization of automated generation of stimulus-based assessment pertaining to a topic, the computer program product comprising: a computer readable storage medium; program instructions stored on the computer readable storage medium comprising: program instructions to connect to one or more information sources, by an access logical circuit; program instructions to extract a set of contents from the one or more information sources, by an analytics logical circuit; program instructions to divide the extracted set of contents into a first number of components and a second number of components, wherein the first number of components is larger than the second number of components, by a faceting logical circuit; program instructions to extract one or more questions from the one or more information sources by the faceting logical circuit, wherein the extracted one or more questions are directed to the set of extracted contents; program instructions to receive a base stimulus at a first graphical user interface, wherein the base stimulus contains the first number of components with the topic and a first set of questions of the extracted one or more questions associated with each component of the first number of components; program instructions to generate sub-stimuli from the base stimulus, by the analytics logical circuit, wherein the sub-stimuli contain the second number of components and a second set of questions of the extracted one or more questions associated with each component of the second number of components; program instructions to send the selected sub-stimulus components and associated questions to a second graphical user interface, by an assessment logical circuit; and program instructions to display the selected sub-stimulus components and the second set of questions to examinees, at the second graphical user interface.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising: program instructions to modify the extracted set of contents by editing at least one: a length and a language of the extracted set of contents, by the analytics logical circuit.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein each of the questions is characterized as having low, medium, or high difficulty, based on determinations made by the analytics logical circuit.
11. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the first number of components and the second number of components are in a textual, numerical, visual, or an audio format.
12. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein a desired number of sub-stimuli is configured in the first graphical user interface.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprises: program instructions to rearrange the extracted set of contents from the one or more information sources, by the faceting logical circuit; and program instructions to modify the first set of components and the second set of components, in response to rearranging the extracted set of contents, by the faceting logical circuit.
14. A computer system for improving customization of generation of stimulus-based assessment pertaining to a topic, the computer system comprising: one or more computer processors; one or more computer readable storage media; program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more processors, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to connect to one or more information sources, by an access logical circuit; program instructions to extract a set of contents from the one or more information sources, by an analytics logical circuit; program instructions to divide the extracted set of contents into a first number of components and a second number of components, wherein the first number of components is larger than the second number of components, by a faceting logical circuit; program instructions to extract one or more questions from the one or more information sources by the faceting logical circuit, wherein the extracted one or more questions are directed to the extracted set of contents; program instructions to receive a base stimulus at a first graphical user interface, wherein the base stimulus contains the first number of components with the topic and a first set of questions of the extracted one or more questions associated with each component of the first number of components; program instructions to generate sub-stimuli from the base stimulus, by the analytics logical circuit, wherein the sub-stimuli contain the second number of components and a second set of questions of the extracted one or more questions associated with each component of the second number of components; program instructions to send the selected sub-stimulus components and associated questions to a second graphical user interface, by an assessment logical circuit; and program instructions to display the selected sub-stimulus components and the second set of questions to examinees, at the second graphical user interface.
15. The computer system of claim 14, further comprising: program instructions to modify the extracted set of contents by editing at least one of: a length and a language of the extracted set of contents, by the analytics logical circuit.
16. The computer system of claim 14, wherein each of the questions is characterized as having low, medium, or high difficulty, based on determinations made by the analytics logical circuit.
17. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the first number of components and the second number of components in a textual, numerical, visual, or an audio format.
18. The computer system of claim 14, wherein a desired number of sub-stimuli is configured in the first graphical user interface.
19. The computer system of claim 14, further comprises: program instructions to rearrange the extracted set of contents from the one or more information sources, by the faceting logical circuit; and program instructions to modify the first set of components and the second set of components, in response to rearranging the extracted set of contents, by the faceting logical circuit.
20. The computer system of claim 14, wherein a total number of possible sub-stimuli is computed by:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?[(The First Number of Components)!]/[(The First Number of Components−The Second Number of Components)!(The Second Number of Components)!].description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"?
</claims>
</document>
