<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/32,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06T3/40,G06T5/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING DIDI INFINITY TECHNOLOGY AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHAO WEI
XU, PENGFEI
LI, MENGXI
AN, KAIQIANG
ZHENG, MAOZONG
SONG, Tingting
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66751221
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DETERMINING NEW ROADS ON A MAP
</title>

<abstract>
A method configured to implemented on at least one map processing device for determining new roads on a map includes obtaining a first road network image of a region, the first road network image including a first plurality of roads. The method also includes determining a second road network image of the region based on a map of the region, the second road network image including a second plurality of roads that are not present in the first road network image. The method further includes determining a third road network image by concatenating the first road network image and the second road network image. The method still further includes determining a fourth road network image of the region by processing the third road network with at least one convolution layer, the fourth road network including the second plurality of roads.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for determining new roads on a map, comprising: at least one storage medium storing a set of instructions; and at least one processor configured to communicate with the at least one storage medium, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the at least one processor is directed to: obtain a first road network image of a region, the first road network image including a first plurality of roads; determine a second road network image of the region based on a map of the region with a trained deep convolution neural network (DCNN) model, the second road network image including a second plurality of roads that are not present in the first road network image; determine a third road network image of the region by concatenating the first road network image and the second road network image, the third road network image including information of the first road network image and the second road network image; and determine a fourth road network image of the region by processing the third road network with at least one convolution layer, the fourth road network including the second plurality of roads.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further directed to: change the first plurality of roads in the first road network image from a first width to a second width, wherein the first plurality of roads and the second plurality of roads in the second road network image have the second width.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein to obtain the trained DCNN model, the at least one processor is directed to: obtain a preliminary DCNN model; obtain a plurality of maps and a plurality of road network images corresponding the plurality of maps; train the preliminary DCNN model based on the plurality of maps and the plurality of road networks; and determine the trained DCNN model based on the preliminary DCNN model and a loss function.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one convolution layer is part of the trained DCNN model.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the trained DCNN model includes one or more pairs of convolution layer and pooling layer, at least one atrous convolution layer, one or more deconvolution layers, and one or more skip layers.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the trained DCNN model includes: one or more atrous convolution layers configured to improve the resolution of a feature image from a first value to a second value; and one or more skip layers configured to combine two feature images into one combined feature image.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein to combine the two feature images into the one combined feature image, the first skip layer is configured to: combine the two feature images into the one combined feature image element-by-element.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the one combined feature image includes features of both the two feature images.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the size of the second road network image is same as the size of the first road network image.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein to determine the third road network image of the region by concatenating the first road network image and the second road network image, the at least one processor is directed to: determine the third road network image by inputting the first road network image and the second road network image into a concatenation layer of the trained DCNN model.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further directed to: determine two ends of each of the second plurality of roads based on the fourth road network image; and determine coordinates of the two ends according to a Hough transform.
12. A method implemented on at least one map processing device to detect objects in images, comprising: obtaining, by the at least one map processing device, a first road network image of a region, the first road network image including a first plurality of roads; determining, by the at least one map processing device, a second road network image of the region based on a map of the region with a trained deep convolution neural network (DCNN) model, the second road network image including a second plurality of roads that are not present in the first road network image; determining, by the at least one map processing device, a third road network image of the region by concatenating the first road network image and the second road network image, the third road network image including information of the first road network image and the second road network image; and determining, by the at least one map processing device, a fourth road network image of the region by processing the third road network with at least one convolution layer, the fourth road network including the second plurality of roads.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: changing, by the at least one map processing device, the first plurality of roads in the first road network image from a first width to a second width, wherein the first plurality of roads and the second plurality of roads in the second road network image have the second width.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the trained DCNN model is obtained by: obtaining a preliminary DCNN model; obtaining a plurality of maps and a plurality of road network images corresponding the plurality of maps; training the preliminary DCNN model based on the plurality of maps and the plurality of road networks; and determining the trained DCNN model based on the preliminary DCNN model and a loss function.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the at least one convolution layer is part of the trained DCNN model.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the trained DCNN model includes one or more pairs of convolution layer and pooling layer, at least one atrous convolution layer, one or more deconvolution layers, and one or more skip layers.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein the trained DCNN model includes: one or more atrous convolution layers configured to improve the resolution of a feature image from a first value to a second value; and one or more skip layers configured to combine two feature images into one combined feature image.
18. 18-20. (canceled)
21. The method of claim 12, wherein determining, by the at least one map processing device, the third road network image of the region by concatenating the first road network image and the second road network image includes: determining, by the at least one map processing device, the third road network image by inputting the first road network image and the second road network image into a concatenation layer of the trained DCNN model.
22. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining, by the at least one map processing device, two ends of each of the second plurality of roads based on the fourth road network image; and determining, by the at least one map processing device, coordinates of the two ends according to a Hough transform.
23. A non-transitory medium storing instructions, the instructions, when executed by at least one map processing device, causing the at least one map processing device to implement a method, comprising: obtaining a first road network image of a region, the first road network image including a first plurality of roads; determining a second road network image of the region based on a map of the region with a trained deep convolution neural network (DCNN) model, the second road network image including a second plurality of roads that are not present in the first road network image; determining a third road network image of the region by concatenating the first road network image and the second road network image, the third road network image including information of the first road network image and the second road network image; and determining a fourth road network image of the region by processing the third road network with at least one convolution layer, the fourth road network including the second plurality of roads.
</claims>
</document>
