<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
OUYANG, TU
CUMMINGS, SARAH Y.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69945984
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES FOR IDENTIFYING INGENUINE ONLINE REVIEWS
</title>

<abstract>
The embodiments set forth a technique for enabling a server device to identify ingenuine online reviews and prevent them from publishing. According to some embodiments, the technique can include the steps of (1) receiving an online review from a client device, where the online review includes a review component that comprises text; (2) parsing the text into two or more tokens; (3) assessing a probability of gibberish associated with the text by: (i) assigning a part of speech to each token; (ii) pairing consecutive tokens into speech pairings; (iii) calculating, for each speech pairing, a conditional probability value; and (iv) aggregating the conditional probability values to calculate the probability of gibberish associated with the text (4) and in response to determining that the probability of gibberish satisfies a threshold amount, tagging the online review as ingenuine to prevent the online review from being published.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for identifying ingenuine online reviews, the method comprising, at a server device: receiving an online review from a client device, wherein the online review includes a review component that comprises text; parsing the text into two or more tokens; assessing a probability of gibberish associated with the text, by: assigning a part of speech to each token; pairing consecutive tokens into speech pairings; calculating, for each speech pairing, a conditional probability value that the speech pairing falls within a gibberish category; aggregating the conditional probability values to calculate the probability of gibberish associated with the text; and in response to determining that the probability of gibberish satisfies a threshold amount, tagging the online review as ingenuine to prevent the online review from being published.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a second online review from a second client device, wherein the second online review includes a second review component that comprises additional text; assessing a second probability of gibberish associated with the additional text; and in response to determining that the second probability of gibberish is equal to or below the threshold amount, tagging the second online review as genuine to enable the second online review to be published.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating, for each speech pairing, a conditional probability value that the speech pairing falls within a gibberish category, comprises: determining a first conditional probability value from a training set of data, that for a gibberish text, the speech pairing occurs in the gibberish text; determining a second conditional probability value from the training set of data, that for a non-gibberish text, the speech pairing occurs in the non-gibberish text; summing the first and second conditional probability values to create a total probability of the speech pairing; and dividing the first conditional probability value by the total probability of the speech pairing.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the first and second conditional probability values are calculated using labeled training data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein aggregating the conditional probability values to calculate the probability of gibberish associated with the text, comprises: multiplying the conditional probability values to create multiplied probability values; and dividing the multiplied probability values by a total probability, wherein the total probability represents probabilities of gibberish and non-gibberish for all speech pairings occurring in the text.
6. A method for identifying ingenuine online reviews, the method comprising, at a server device: receiving an online review from a client device, wherein the online review includes a review component that comprises text; separating the text into a first part that comprises letters and spaces occurring consecutively between punctuation marks within the text, and a second part that comprises letters and spaces occurring consecutively between punctuation marks within the text; tracking a number of characters occurring within the first and second parts in a list; identifying a largest number from the list; calculating a probability that the text is gibberish based on the largest number; and in response to determining that the probability satisfies a threshold amount, tagging the online review as ingenuine to prevent the online review from being published.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: receiving a second online review from a second client device, wherein the second online review includes a second review component that comprises additional text; calculating a second probability that the additional text is gibberish based on an additional largest number, wherein the additional largest number represents a largest number of characters occurring consecutively between punctuation marks within the additional text; and in response to determining that the second probability is equal to or below the threshold amount, tagging the second online review as genuine to enable the second online review to be published.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein calculating a second probability that the additional text is gibberish based on an additional largest number, comprises: separating the additional text into a first part of the additional text that comprises letters and spaces occurring consecutively between punctuation marks within the additional text; and a second part of the additional text that comprises letters and spaces occurring consecutively between punctuation marks within the additional text; tracking an additional number of characters occurring within the first part of the additional text and the second part of the additional text in a second list; identifying an additional largest number in the second list; and calculating the second probability that the additional text is gibberish based on the additional largest number in the second list.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein tracking a number of characters occurring within the first and second parts in a list comprises: creating a counter set to an initial value; and starting at an initial position in the text, advancing the counter for each character that is not a punctuation mark; recording a value of the counter in the list when a character is a punctuation mark; resetting the counter to the initial value.
10. A method for identifying ingenuine online reviews, the method comprising, at a server device: receiving an online review from a client device, wherein the online review includes a review component that comprises text; for each word within the text, identifying a letter located in a predefined position of each word to produce an identified letter; mapping individual identified letters to respective locations on a computer keyboard, wherein the respective locations comprise one or more keys of the computer keyboard and the respective locations do not overlap; for each of the respective locations, determining a percentage of letters located within a respective location to create an occurrence percentage; calculating a probability that the text is gibberish based on the occurrence percentages; and in response to determining that the probability satisfies a threshold amount, tagging the online review as ingenuine to prevent the online review from being published.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the respective locations further comprise a first location, a second location, and a third location, and wherein mapping individual identified letters to respective locations on a computer keyboard comprises: mapping a first identified letter to the first location, wherein the first location is a top row of keys on a QWERTY keyboard; mapping a second identified letter to the second location, wherein the second location is a middle row of keys on the QWERTY keyboard, and wherein the third location is a bottom row of keys on the QWERTY keyboard.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein for each of the respective locations, determining a percentage of letters located within a respective location, comprises: determining a percentage of identified letters located in the top row of keys; determining a percentage of identified letters located in the middle row of keys; and determining a percentage of identified letters located in the bottom row of keys.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the text is in Chinese comprising Chinese characters, and the method further comprises: for each Chinese character: translating a Chinese character to a Pinyin equivalent to create a translated word; identifying a letter located in the predefined position of the translated word.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the text is written using letters not within a Roman alphabet, and the method further comprises: for each word within the text: translating the word to an equivalent word using the Roman alphabet; and identifying a letter located in the predefined position of the equivalent word.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving a second online review from a second client device, wherein the second online review includes a second review component that comprises additional text; for each word within the additional text, identifying an additional letter located in the predefined position to produce an additional identified letter; mapping individual additional identified letters to the respective locations on the computer keyboard; for each of the respective locations, determining an additional percentage of letters located within a respective location to create an additional occurrence percentage; calculating an additional probability that the additional text is gibberish based on the additional occurrence percentages; and in response to determining that the additional probability does not satisfy the threshold amount, tagging the second online review as genuine to enable the second online review to be published.
16. A method for identifying ingenuine online reviews, the method comprising, at a server device: receiving an online review from a client device, wherein the online review includes a review component that comprises text; calculating a percentage of unique characters occurring in the text to create the percentage of unique characters; calculating a probability that the text is gibberish based on the percentage of unique characters; and in response to determining that the probability satisfies a threshold amount, tagging the online review as ingenuine to prevent the online review from being published.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein calculating a probability that the text is gibberish based on the percentage of unique characters, comprises: dividing a number of unique characters present within the text by a total number of characters present within the text.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising: receiving a second online review from a second client device, wherein the second online review includes a second review component that comprises additional text; calculating an additional probability that the additional text is gibberish based on a percentage of unique characters in the additional text; and in response to determining that the additional probability is equal to or below the threshold amount, tagging the second online review as genuine to enable the second online review to be published.
19. The method of claim 16, further comprising: for each word within the text, identifying a letter located in a predefined position to create an identified letter; mapping individual identified letters to respective locations on a computer keyboard, wherein the respective locations comprises one or more keys of the computer keyboard and the respective locations do not overlap; and for each of the respective locations, determining a percentage of letters located within a respective location to create an occurrence percentage, wherein calculating an additional probability that the text is gibberish is based on the percentage of unique characters and the occurrence percentages.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein calculating a probability that the text is gibberish based on the percentage of unique characters, comprises: calculating a value of a largest number of words occurring between punctuation marks; and calculating an additional probability that the text is gibberish based on the percentage of unique characters and the value of the largest number of words.
</claims>
</document>
