<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/279,G06F40/30,G06N20/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Shmuel, Yaniv
</assignee>

<inventors>
Shmuel, Yaniv
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102862
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods Circuits Devices Systems and Functionally Associated Machine Executable Code for Generating a Scene Guidance Instruction
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are methods, circuits, devices, systems and functionally associated machine executable code for generating a scene interaction guidance instruction. One or more sensors directed towards an area of the interaction capture information about messages generated by an agent and a subject participants, wherein the captured messages can be verbal or visual in format. A computing platform receives and processes the captured information using a computerized message interpreter to extract meaning from the captured messages information; and a message impact assessment module to characterize, based on the extracted meaning, an impact of each agent generated message on the subject, wherein each impact characterization indicates whether a respective message brought the interaction closer to, or further away from, the specific objective.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for assessment of an in-person interaction between a subject and an agent having a specific objective for said interaction, wherein said system comprises: one or more sensors directed towards an area of the interaction and adapted to capture information about messages generated by the agent and the subject, wherein the captured messages can be verbal or visual in format; a computing platform to receive and process the captured information using: a computerized message interpreter adapted to extract meaning from the captured messages information; and a message impact assessment module to characterize, based on the extracted meaning, an impact of each agent generated message on the subject, wherein each impact characterization indicates whether a respective message brought the interaction closer to, or further from, the specific objective.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said computer platform further includes a message classification logic for classifying, based on the extracted meaning, a specific interaction message, as expressed by either the agent or subject interacting.
3. The system according to claim 1, wherein extracting meaning from the captured messages is at least partially based on processing of said sensor outputs using detection parameters within an interaction type configuration script for the given interaction.
4. The system according to claim 3, wherein said computing platform further comprises an interaction intervention module for generating an interaction agent instruction corresponding, and in response, to specific impact characterizations of one or more consecutive agent generated messages on the subject.
5. The system according to claim 4, wherein said system further includes one or more agent devices or appliances to signal, present or otherwise convey, substantially in real-time, an interaction agent instruction communicated by said interaction intervention module.
6. The system according to claim 3, wherein the interaction type configuration script is automatically generated at least partially based on a system received or retrieved regulatory compliance protocol.
7. The system according to claim 1, wherein the impact characterization indicating whether the respective message brought the interaction closer to, or further from, the specific objective, at least partially factors an interest level of the subject in the agent generated message which triggered the respective message.
8. The system according to claim 1, wherein the impact characterization indicating whether the respective message brought the interaction closer to, or further from, the specific objective, at least partially factors an estimation of the subject's sentiment towards the agent generated message which triggered the respective message.
9. The system according to claim 3, wherein characterization of the impact of each agent generated message on the subject, is at least partially based on the reference of a deep learning model, trained with agent generated messages data from previous interactions, sharing the same interaction type configuration script, in which the specific objective has been reached.
10. The system according to claim 3, wherein characterization of the impact of each agent generated message on the subject, is at least partially based on comparison of the meaning extracted from the agent message to meanings extracted from agent generated messages data from previous interactions, sharing the same interaction type configuration script, in which the specific objective has been reached.
11. A method for assessment of an in-person interaction between a subject and an agent having a specific objective for said interaction, said method comprising: capturing, using sensors, information about messages generated by the agent and the subject, wherein the captured messages can be verbal or visual in format; extracting meaning from the captured messages information; and characterizing, based on the extracted meaning, an impact of each agent generated message on the subject, wherein each impact characterization indicates whether a respective message brought the interaction closer to, or further from, the specific objective.
12. The method according to claim 11, further comprising classifying, based on the extracted meaning, a specific interaction message, as expressed by either the agent or subject interacting.
13. The method according to claim 11, wherein extracting meaning from the captured messages includes processing of the sensor outputs using detection parameters within an interaction type configuration script for the given interaction.
14. The method according to claim 13, further comprising generating an interaction agent instruction corresponding, and in response, to specific impact characterizations of one or more consecutive agent generated messages on the subject.
15. The method according to claim 14, further comprising signaling, presenting or otherwise conveying, substantially in real-time, a generated interaction agent instruction.
16. The method according to claim 13, further comprising automatically generating the interaction type configuration script at least partially based on a system received or retrieved regulatory compliance protocol.
17. The method according to claim 11, further comprising factoring an interest level of the subject in the agent generated message as part of agent message characterization.
18. The method according to claim 11, further comprising factoring an estimation of the subject's sentiment towards the agent generated message as part of agent message characterization.
19. The method according to claim 13, further comprising referencing a deep learning model, trained with agent generated messages data from previous interactions, sharing the same interaction type configuration script, in which the specific interaction objective has been reached.
20. The method according to claim 13, further comprising comparing of the meaning extracted from the agent message to meanings extracted from agent generated messages data from previous interactions, sharing the same interaction type configuration script, in which the specific interaction objective has been reached.
</claims>
</document>
