<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/06,G06Q30/08,H04L29/06,H04L9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KLEAN INDUSTRIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
KLINKHAMER, JESSE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70457772
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR A CIRCULAR WASTE RECYCLING ECONOMY UTILIZING A DISTRIBUTED LEDGER
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for a circular waste economy platform consisting of waste sellers, waste buyers, and waste transport providers, where the platform utilizes artificial intelligence to facilitate the sale, transfer, and fulfillment of waste between sellers and buyers, and where the waste transactions are recorded on a distributed ledger.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for a circular waste recycling economy platform, comprising: a server comprising a central processing unit (CPU); at least one seller communicatively coupled to the server, wherein the seller owns a waste lot; a plurality of buyers communicatively coupled to the server; a plurality of waste transport providers communicatively coupled to the server; and a distributed ledger communicatively coupled to the server, wherein the server is further configured to match the waste lot to at least one buyer using an artificial intelligence technique, and wherein the server is configured to transmit an offer to sell the waste lot from the seller to the at least one buyer that is matched by the server, and wherein the server is further configured to generate a smart contract for a sale of the waste lot between the seller and the at least one buyer, and wherein the distributed ledger is configured to store the smart contract.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the distributed ledger is configured to validate the smart contract prior to storing the smart contract.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the buyer is configured to transmit an image of the waste lot to the server.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the server is configured to perform item recognition on the waste lot to identify at least one waste item in the waste lot.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the server is further configured to select at least one waste transport provider to pick-up the waste lot from the seller, and to deliver the waste lot to the at least one seller.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one seller purchases the waste lot from the seller using a virtual currency.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the server is configured to be an escrow agent between the seller and the at least one buyer.
8. A method for conducting waste transactions, comprising: receiving, at a server, an image of a waste lot from a waste seller; analyzing, by the server, the image of the waste lot to identify at least waste item in the image; generating, by the server, an offer bid for the waste lot, wherein the offer bid is generated using an artificial intelligence technique; transmitting, by the server, the offer bid to the waste seller; executing, by the server, a first operation to transmit the offer bid to a plurality of waste buyers communicatively coupled to the server if the waste seller approves the offer bid, or executing, by the server, a second operation to analyze a counter bid from the waste seller if the waste seller rejects the offer bid; accepting, by a waste seller, the offer bid; generating, by the server, a smart contract for a sale of the waste lot between the waste seller and the waste buyer; storing, by the server, the smart contract on a distributed ledger communicatively coupled to the server; identifying, by the server, a waste transport provider to service the sale of the waste lot; receiving, by the server, funds from the waste buyer to fulfill the smart contract; distributing, by the server, the funds to the waste seller and the waste transport provider upon confirmation of a delivery of the waste lot to the waste buyer by the waste transport provider; and updating, by the server, the smart contract with at least one of a waste lot delivery confirmation and a funds transfer confirmation.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein an identity of least one of the waste seller, the waste buyer, and the waste transport provider is verified by the server.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the funds are in the form of a virtual currency.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the funds are exchanged from a first currency to a second currency by the server.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the server identifies the waste transport provider using an artificial intelligence technique to match the waste transport provider to the smart contract based on properties of at least one of the waste seller, the waste buyer, and the waste lot.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the waste seller and the waste buyer communicate with the server using a decentralized application (DApp).
14. A system for a circular waste recycling economy platform, comprising: a server communicatively configured to operate a closed network accessible only to entities that have been granted access to the closed network by the server; a seller decentralized application (DApp) operated by a waste seller, the seller DApp communicatively coupled to the server; a buyer DApp operated by a waste buyer, the buyer DApp communicatively coupled to the server; a distributed ledger communicatively coupled to the server; and a central processing unit (CPU) coupled to the server, wherein the CPU is configured to match the waste buyer to the waste seller using an artificial intelligence technique, wherein the server is configured to transmit an offer bid for a waste lot for sale by the waste seller to the waste buyer, wherein the server is further configured to transmit at least one of an acceptance and a counter offer from the waste buyer to the waste seller, wherein the server is further configured to generate a smart contract for the sale of the waste lot between the waste buyer and the waste seller, where the smart contract is stored on the distributed ledger, and wherein the server is further configured to act as an escrow agent to hold funds from the waste buyer until the waste lot is successfully delivered to the waste seller.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the server is configured to verify an identity of the waste seller using at least one of a Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) process.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the server is configured to verify an identity of the waste buyer using at least one of a KYC and AML process.
17. The system of claim 14, further including a waste transport provider DApp operated by a waste transport provider, the waste transport provider DApp communicatively coupled to the server.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the DApp is distributed to the waste buyer and waste seller by a provider that manages the circular waste recycling economy platform.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein the funds are in the form of a virtual currency.
20. The system of claim 14, wherein the distributed ledger is comprised of a blockchain, where each block on the blockchain is configured to store a separate smart contract.
</claims>
</document>
