<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/31,G06F21/36,G06N20/00,G06N99/00,G06Q30/02,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DELUCA,LISA SEACAT
GREENBERGER, JEREMY A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70052323
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
User authentication employing user activity based inquiries
</title>

<abstract>
According to one embodiment of the present invention, a system includes at least one processor and authenticates a user. The system monitors interactions on a network site and identifies an interaction requiring user authentication. An inquiry is generated to authenticate the user based on an activity history for the user. A plurality of candidate responses are determined for the inquiry, where at least one candidate response for the inquiry includes information for an item associated with the activity history for the user. The inquiry is presented to the user, and user selection of one or more of the candidate responses is enabled as a reply to the inquiry. The identified interaction is performed in response to verification of the reply to the inquiry authenticating the user. Embodiments of the present invention further include a method and computer program product for authenticating a user in substantially the same manner described above.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of authenticating a user comprising: monitoring, via a processor, interactions on a network site and identifying an interaction requiring user authentication; generating, via the processor, an inquiry to authenticate the user based on an activity history for the user; determining, via the processor, a plurality of candidate responses for the inquiry, wherein at least one candidate response for the inquiry includes information for an item associated with the activity history for the user; presenting, via the processor, the inquiry to the user and enabling user selection of one or more of the candidate responses as a reply to the inquiry; and performing, via the processor, the identified interaction in response to verification of the reply to the inquiry authenticating the user.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the identified interaction includes one or more from a group of a login, a payment, resetting a password, recovering a username, and recovering a password.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the activity history includes one or more from a group of viewing and purchasing one or more products, and the inquiry pertains to the plurality of candidate responses.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the candidate responses include an advertisement and are determined based on one or more from a group of products within a consumer segment of the user, products the user has previously viewed, products the user has previously purchased, products the user has previously added to a list, products of a highest paying merchant for the advertisement, product inventory, and products complementing the one or more products of the inquiry.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of candidate responses is associated with a corresponding item and includes a link to information pertaining to the corresponding item.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of candidate responses is associated with a corresponding item, and the computer-implemented method further comprises: presenting information pertaining to corresponding items of the plurality of candidate responses in response to performing the identified interaction.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining a plurality of candidate responses for the inquiry further comprises: learning, via the processor, candidate responses to the inquiry based on applying the activity history to a machine learning model.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining a plurality of candidate responses for the inquiry further comprises: omitting an item for a candidate response to the inquiry when the item appeared in a prior authentication of the user without receiving interaction from the user.
9. A system for authenticating a user comprising: at least one processor configured to: monitor interactions on a network site and identify an interaction requiring user authentication; generate an inquiry to authenticate the user based on an activity history for the user; determine a plurality of candidate responses for the inquiry, wherein at least one candidate response for the inquiry includes information for an item associated with the activity history for the user; present the inquiry to the user and enable user selection of one or more of the candidate responses as a reply to the inquiry; and perform the identified interaction in response to verification of the reply to the inquiry authenticating the user.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the identified interaction includes one or more from a group of a login, a payment, resetting a password, recovering a username, and recovering a password; wherein the activity history includes one or more from a group of viewing and purchasing one or more products, and the inquiry pertains to the plurality of candidate responses; wherein the candidate responses include an advertisement and are determined based on one or more from a group of products within a consumer segment of the user, products the user has previously viewed, products the user has previously purchased, products the user has previously added to a list, products of a highest paying merchant for the advertisement, product inventory, and products complementing the one or more products of the inquiry; and wherein each of the plurality of candidate responses is associated with a corresponding item and includes a link to information pertaining to the corresponding item.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein each of the plurality of candidate responses is associated with a corresponding item, and the at least one processor is further configured to: present information pertaining to corresponding items of the plurality of candidate responses in response to performing the identified interaction.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein determining a plurality of candidate responses for the inquiry further comprises: learning candidate responses to the inquiry based on applying the activity history to a machine learning model.
13. A computer program product for authenticating a user, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to: monitor interactions on a network site and identify an interaction requiring user authentication; generate an inquiry to authenticate the user based on an activity history for the user; determine a plurality of candidate responses for the inquiry, wherein at least one candidate response for the inquiry includes information for an item associated with the activity history for the user; present the inquiry to the user and enable user selection of one or more of the candidate responses as a reply to the inquiry; and perform the identified interaction in response to verification of the reply to the inquiry authenticating the user.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the identified interaction includes one or more from a group of a login, a payment, resetting a password, recovering a username, and recovering a password.
15. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the activity history includes one or more from a group of viewing and purchasing one or more products, and the inquiry pertains to the plurality of candidate responses.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the candidate responses include an advertisement and are determined based on one or more from a group of products within a consumer segment of the user, products the user has previously viewed, products the user has previously purchased, products the user has previously added to a list, products of a highest paying merchant for the advertisement, product inventory, and products complementing the one or more products of the inquiry.
17. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein each of the plurality of candidate responses is associated with a corresponding item and includes a link to information pertaining to the corresponding item.
18. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein each of the plurality of candidate responses is associated with a corresponding item, and the program instructions further cause the processor to: present information pertaining to corresponding items of the plurality of candidate responses in response to performing the identified interaction.
19. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein determining a plurality of candidate responses for the inquiry further comprises: learning candidate responses to the inquiry based on applying the activity history to a machine learning model.
20. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein determining a plurality of candidate responses for the inquiry further comprises: omitting an item for a candidate response to the inquiry when the item appeared in a prior authentication of the user without receiving interaction from the user.
</claims>
</document>
