<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F13/20,G06F9/54
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BALLE, SUSANNE M.
GUIM BERNAT, FRANCESC
KUMAR, KARTHIK
Tetreault, Mark D.
</assignee>

<inventors>
BALLE, SUSANNE M.
GUIM BERNAT, FRANCESC
KUMAR, KARTHIK
Tetreault, Mark D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102308
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNOLOGIES FOR SCALING INTER-KERNEL TECHNOLOGIES FOR ACCELERATOR DEVICE KERNELS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for inter-kernel communication using one or more semiconductor devices. The semi-conductor devices include a kernel. The kernel may be in an inactive state unless performing an operation. One kernel of a first device may monitor data for an event. Once an event has occurred, the kernel sends an indication to a first inter-kernel communication circuitry. The inter-kernel communication circuitry determines an activation function of a plurality of activation functions is to be generated, generates the activation function, and transmits the activation function to a second kernel of a second device to waken and perform a function using a peer-to-peer connection.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A semiconductor device, comprising: a kernel configured to: monitor a stream of data; determine that an event has occurred; and based at least in part on the determination that the event has occurred, transmit an indication of the event; and inter-kernel communication circuitry configured to: receive the indication; based on the indication, determine that an activation function of a plurality of activation functions is to be generated; generate the activation function; and transmit the activation function to a kernel of another programmable logic device to waken and perform a function using a peer-to-peer connection.
2. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the inter-kernel communication circuitry is configured to choose the other programmable logic device from a plurality of programmable logic devices based at least in part on the determined event and the activation function.
3. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the event comprises a threshold for the stream of data being surpassed.
4. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the inter-kernel communication circuitry is configured to identify an IO channel over which to transmit the activation function.
5. The semiconductor device of claim 4, wherein the inter-kernel communication circuitry transmits the activation function over the IO channel to the other programmable logic device as a single targeted programmable logic device.
6. The semiconductor device of claim 4, wherein the inter-kernel communication circuitry broadcasts the activation function over the TO channel a plurality of programmable logic devices including the other programmable logic device.
7. The semiconductor device of claim 6, wherein the plurality of programmable logic devices are located in a direction of travel indicated in the stream of data.
8. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the stream of data comprises image data, and the event comprises determining a speed of an automobile or identifying the automobile as corresponding to a particular automobile parameters.
9. The semiconductor device of claim 8, wherein identifying the automobile comprises matching a license plate, a color, or a make of the automobile to the particular automobile parameters.
10. The semiconductor device of claim 8, wherein the activation function is configured to cause the other programmable logic device to confirm identification of the automobile.
11. The semiconductor device of claim 10, wherein confirming identification of the automobile comprises the other programmable logic device utilizing a secondary monitoring device to attempt to independently determine an identification of the automobile.
12. The semiconductor device of claim 11, wherein the secondary monitoring device comprises an image sensor or camera operably coupled to the other programmable logic device and that is used to capture images including the car.
13. A programmable logic device, comprising: a kernel configured to be in an active state performing a corresponding function or in a sleep state with reduced power consumption; first inter-kernel communication circuitry configured to: receive an activation function from a second inter-kernel communication circuitry of another programmable logic device; in response to receiving the activation function from the second inter-kernel communication circuitry of the other programmable logic device, wake up the kernel from the sleep state to the active state to perform an operation specified in the activation function; cause the kernel to process data corresponding to the activation function in the activate state; and transmit results of the data processing to the other programmable logic device.
14. The programmable logic device of claim 13, wherein waking up the kernel comprises registering the kernel to the activation function.
15. The programmable logic device of claim 13, wherein the activation function is received as a targeted transmission sent only to the programmable logic device.
16. The programmable logic device of claim 13, wherein the activation function is broadcasted to a plurality of programmable logic devices including the programmable logic device.
17. The programmable logic device of claim 13, wherein the data comprises image data.
18. The programmable logic device of claim 17, wherein the data is received at the programmable logic device with the activation function.
19. The programmable logic device of claim 18, wherein the inter-kernel communication circuitry is configured to causes a camera or image sensor to capture the data in response to the receipt of the activation function.
20. A semiconductor device, comprising: a kernel configured to perform one or more operations; and inter-kernel communication circuitry configured to communicate with other semi-conductor devices based on processing that has been performed in the kernel or is to be performed in the kernel, wherein the inter-kernel communication circuitry comprises: a memory to store one or more activation rules and one or more security keys, wherein the one or more activation rules are configured to indicate which external kernel in a separate processing device is configured to be targeted with an activation function configured to activate the external kernel to perform a corresponding function, and the one or more security keys are configured to enable access to the external kernel; and a plurality of interfaces comprising: a first interface configured to enable communication with the kernel; and a peer interface configured to enable communication with the external kernel using a peer-to-peer channel corresponding to the separate processing device.
</claims>
</document>
