<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F16/951,G06F16/957,G06F16/958,G06F3/16,G06F40/103,G06F40/134,G06F40/137,G06F40/14,G06F40/174,G10L13/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AUDIOEYE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAKER, MARK D.
BRADLEY, SEAN D.
BLEVINS, CHARLIE E.
FINKELSTEIN, ADAM
PINCKNEY, DAVID C.
LAYMON, HELENA
BODNAR, TAYLOR R.
JONES, TREVOR C.
GILORMO, DOUGLAS J.
HEFNER, KENNY P.
JONES, JEFFREY O.
CARRILLO, DAMIEN M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73457207
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Modular systems and methods for selectively enabling cloud-based assistive technologies
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are disclosed for manually and programmatically remediating websites to thereby facilitate website navigation by people with diverse abilities. For example, an administrator portal is provided for simplified, form-based creation and deployment of remediation code, and a machine learning system is utilized to create and suggest remediations based on past remediation history. Voice command systems and portable document format (PDF) remediation techniques are also provided for improving the accessibility of such websites.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of training and applying a machine learning system based on past remediation history data, wherein the machine learning system is configured to generate a remediation code to remediate a web page compliance issue associated with web accessibility standards, wherein the method comprises: accessing past remediation history data comprising: a set of compliance issues relating to web accessibility standards, wherein the set of compliance issues are obtained from a plurality of web pages, and wherein the set of compliance issues are of a particular issue type; and a set of past remediations, wherein each past remediation of the set of past remediations corresponds to a particular compliance issue in the set of compliance issues; training, based on the past remediation history data, a machine learning system to select a remediation for remediating at least one compliance issue of the particular issue type; accessing, by a computer system, code associated with a web page; identifying a compliance issue relating to web accessibility standards in the code, wherein the compliance issue is associated with an untagged element on the web page, and wherein the compliance issue is of the particular issue type; and applying the machine learning system to: select a remediation suitable for remediating the identified compliance issue; generate a remediation code for the identified compliance issue based on the selected remediation; and store the remediation code, wherein the remediation code is stored for future remediation of the identified compliance issue by a user computer system.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the remediation code is javascript.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the remediation code for the identified compliance issue comprises suggesting the remediation to a user.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein identifying the compliance issue is performed using a scanning and detection system.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning system comprises a heuristics engine used to map the identified compliance issue to a pre-existing remediation code.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the remediation code for the identified compliance issue comprises modifying an existing remediation to specifically address the identified compliance issue.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising applying the machine learning system to: determine a confidence level associated with the generated remediation.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein training the machine learning system to select the remediation involves a supervised learning technique.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein identifying the compliance issue involves checking the web page against a set of rules associated with the particular issue type.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning system is further configured to: identify a common template across multiple pages of a website, wherein the common template is associated with a structural pattern that each of the multiple pages adheres to; and determine a set of remediations for the multiple pages based on the identified common template.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the common template is identified by identifying patterns in DOM structure, URL structure, or accessibility test results.
12. A computer-implemented method of training and applying a machine learning system based on past remediation history data, the computer-implemented method configured to be used in remediation of a web page, the web page having an associated document object model (DOM), the computer-implemented method comprising: executing, via a browser operating on a user computer, a remediation request code embedded in code of the web page; sending, by the user computer, a remediation request over an electronic network to a remote server, wherein the remediation request is for remediating the web page; receiving, by the user computer from the remote server via the electronic network, a remediation code for remediating the web page; executing, by the user computer, the remediation code to cause the user computer to process remediation of the web page to enable an audible description for an untagged element of the web page, wherein the remote server generates the remediation code by: accessing past remediation history data comprising: a set of compliance issues relating to web accessibility standards, wherein the set of compliance issues are obtained from a plurality of web pages, and wherein the set of compliance issues are of a particular issue type; and a set of past remediations, wherein each past remediation of the set of past remediations corresponds to a particular compliance issue in the set of compliance issues; training, based on the past remediation history data, a machine learning system to select a remediation for remediating any compliance issue of the particular issue type; identifying a compliance issue relating to web accessibility standards in the code of the web page, wherein the identified compliance issue is associated with an untagged element on the web page, and wherein the identified compliance issue is of the particular issue type; and applying the machine learning system to the web page, wherein the applying further comprises: selecting a remediation suitable for remediating the identified compliance issue; generating the remediation code for the identified compliance issue based on the selected remediation; and storing the remediation code, wherein the remediation code is stored for future remediation of the identified compliance issue by the user computer.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the causing the user computer to process remediation of the web page comprises altering the DOM associated with the web page.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the causing the user computer to process remediation of the web page comprises altering HTML code associated with the web page.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the machine learning system comprises a heuristics engine used to map the identified compliance issue to a pre-existing remediation code.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the generating of the remediation code for the identified compliance issue further comprises modifying an existing remediation to specifically address the identified compliance issue.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein applying the machine learning system further comprises determining a confidence level associated with the generated remediation code.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein training the machine learning system to select the remediation involves a supervised learning technique.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the remote server comprises one or more computer systems.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the remediation code generated by the remote server comprises JavaScript.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the at least one remediation code generated by the remote server comprises assigning a descriptive attribute to the untagged element of the web page to enable an audible description of the untagged element.
</claims>
</document>
