<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L5/00,H04W52/34,H04W72/04,H04W76/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, SANG WOOK
YANG, YOONOH
JUNG, MANYOUNG
LIM, SUHWAN
HWANG, JINYUP
PARK, JONGKEUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71944900
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SIGNALING RELATED TO INTER-BAND CARRIER AGGREGATION
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a method for performing communication related to inter-band CA. The method is performed by a wireless communication device. The wireless communication device may receive cell information from a PCell. The cell information may include first information that the PCell is collocated with a SCell within a base station or second information that the PCell is not collocated with the SCell. The PCell and the SCell are configured for the inter-band CA. The wireless communication device may perform communication with at least one of the PCell and the SCell.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for performing communication related to inter-band carrier aggregation (CA), the method performed by a wireless communication device and comprising: receiving cell information from a Primary Cell(PCell), wherein the cell information includes first information that the PCell is collocated with a Secondary Cell (SCell) within a base station or second information that the PCell is not collocated with the SCell, and wherein the SCell and the PCell use different operating bands to be configured for the inter-band CA; and performing communication with at least one of the PCell and the SCell wherein the communication is performed based on the cell information and an antenna type of the wireless communication device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the communication is performed with both of the PCell and the SCell, based on that the first information is included in the cell information.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the antenna type of the wireless communication device is configured as a shared antenna for operating bands or separated antennas for each of the operating bands.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the communication is performed with both of the PCell and the SCell, based on that the antenna type of the wireless communication device is configured as the separated antennas and based on that the second information is included in the cell information.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the communication is performed with the PCell, based on that the antenna type of the wireless communication device is configured as the shared antenna and based on that the second information is included in the cell information.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting capability information related to the antenna type of the wireless communication device to the PCell.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the communication with the both of the PCell and SCell is performed based on a relative receive timing difference between a first receive timing from the Pcell and a second receive timing from the SCell, and wherein the relative receiving timing difference does not exceed a maximum receive timing difference (MRTD).
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the communication with the both of the PCell and SCell is performed such that a relative transmission timing difference between a first transmission timing to the PCell and a second transmission timing to the SCell, and wherein the relative transmission timing difference does not exceed a maximum transmission timing difference.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the MRTD is set based on the cell information and the antenna type of the wireless communication device.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the MTTD is set based on the cell information and the antenna type of the wireless communication device.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the wireless communication device is an autonomous driving device, which communicates with at least one of a mobile terminal, a network, and an autonomous vehicle other than the wireless communication device.
12. A method for performing communication related to inter-band carrier aggregation (CA), the method performed by a base station including Primary Cell (PCell) and comprising: receiving capability information related to an antenna type of a wireless communication device from the wireless communication device; determining an applicability of the inter-band CA with the PCell and a Secondary Cell (SCell) based on the capability information and cell information, wherein the cell information includes first information that the PCell is collocated with the SCell within the base station or second information that the PCell is not collocated with the SCell, and wherein the SCell and the PCell use different operating bands to be configured for the inter-band CA; and performing communication based on the applicability of the inter-band CA.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: configuring the inter-band CA with the PCell and the SCell, based on that the applicability of the inter-band CA is determined to be applicable.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising: not configuring the inter-band CA with the PCell and the SCell, based on that the applicability of the inter-band CA is determined to be not applicable.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the applicability of the inter-band CA is determined to be applicable, based on that the first information is included in the cell information.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the applicability of the inter-band CA is determined to be applicable, based on that the antenna type of the wireless communication device is separated antennas and based on that the second information is included in the cell information.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein the applicability of the inter-band CA is determined to be not applicable, based on that the antenna type of the wireless communication device is a shared antenna and based on that the second information is included in the cell information.
18. The method of claim 12, further comprising transmitting the cell information to the wireless communication device.
19. An apparatus in wireless communication system, the apparatus comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor, wherein the processor is configured to: obtain cell information from a Primary Cell(PCell), wherein the cell information includes first information that the PCell is collocated with a Secondary Cell (SCell) within a base station or second information that the PCell is not collocated with the SCell, and wherein the SCell and the PCell use different operating bands to be configured for the inter-band CA; and perform communication with at least one of the PCell and the SCell, wherein the PCell and the SCell are configured for the inter-band CA, and wherein the communication is performed based on the cell information and an antenna type of the apparatus.
</claims>
</document>
