<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,H04W4/021,H04W4/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZAIFMAN, ARTHUR
ZDROIK, GLEN
MOCENIGO, JOHN MARK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68138783
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Data harvesting for machine learning model training
</title>

<abstract>
Concepts and technologies disclosed herein are directed to data harvesting for machine learning model training. According to one aspect of the concepts and technologies disclosed herein, a network data collection system can identify a target data source location from which to harvest data for a machine learning system to utilize during a machine learning model training process. The data can be associated with a plurality of mobile communications devices operating in communication with at least one base station of a mobile communications network that serves the target data source location. The network data collection system can collect the data and provide the data to the machine learning system. The machine learning system, in turn, can create a training data set for use during the machine learning model training process based, at least in part, upon the data.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A network data collection system comprising: a processor; and memory having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising identifying a target data source location from which to harvest data for a machine learning system to utilize during a machine learning model training process, wherein the data is associated with a plurality of mobile communications devices operating in communication with at least one base station of a mobile communications network that serves the target data source location, collecting the data, and providing the data to the machine learning system, wherein the machine learning system creates a training data set for use during the machine learning model training process based, at least in part, upon the data.
2. The network data collection system of claim 1, wherein identifying the target data source location comprises establishing a perimeter around an area containing the at least one base station.
3. The network data collection system of claim 2, wherein collecting the data comprises collecting, from a collection point, network packets from the at least one base station positioned inside the perimeter.
4. The network data collection system of claim 2, wherein collecting the data comprises collecting, from at least one collection point, network packets from the at least one base station positioned inside the perimeter and at least one further base station positioned outside the perimeter; and filtering out a subset of the network packets that are collected from the at least one further base station positioned outside the perimeter.
5. The network data collection system of claim 1, wherein the data comprises a plurality of requests associated with at least one application executing on at least a portion of the plurality of mobile communications devices.
6. The network data collection system of claim 5, wherein the plurality of requests are generated after an airplane mode function is disabled on the portion of the plurality of mobile communications devices.
7. The network data collection system of claim 1, wherein the data is responsive, at least in part, to a common action among users of the plurality of mobile communications devices.
8. A computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: identifying a target data source location from which to harvest data for a machine learning system to utilize during a machine learning model training process, wherein the data is associated with a plurality of mobile communications devices operating in communication with at least one base station of a mobile communications network that serves the target data source location, collecting the data, and providing the data to the machine learning system, wherein the machine learning system creates a training data set for use during the machine learning model training process based, at least in part, upon the data.
9. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein identifying the target data source location comprises establishing a perimeter around an area containing the at least one base station.
10. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein collecting the data comprises collecting, from a collection point, network packets from the at least one base station positioned inside the perimeter.
11. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein collecting the data comprises collecting, from at least one collection point, network packets from the at least one base station positioned inside the perimeter and at least one further base station positioned outside the perimeter; and filtering out a subset of the network packets that are collected from the at least one further base station positioned outside the perimeter.
12. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the data comprises a plurality of requests associated with at least one application executing on at least a portion of the plurality of mobile communications devices.
13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the plurality of requests are generated after an airplane mode function is disabled on the portion of the plurality of mobile communications devices.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the data is responsive, at least in part, to a common action among users of the plurality of mobile communications devices.
15. A method comprising: identifying, by a network data collection system comprising a processor, a target data source location from which to harvest data for a machine learning system to utilize during a machine learning model training process, wherein the data is associated with a plurality of mobile communications devices operating in communication with at least one base station of a mobile communications network that serves the target data source location; collecting, by the network data collection system, the data; and providing, by the network data collection system, the data to the machine learning system, wherein the machine learning system creates a training data set for use during the machine learning model training process based, at least in part, upon the data.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein identifying the target data source location comprises establishing a perimeter around an area containing the at least one base station.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the area comprises an airport.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the data comprises a plurality of requests associated with at least one application executing on at least a portion of the plurality of mobile communications devices.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the plurality of requests are generated after an airplane mode function is disabled on the portion of the plurality of mobile communications devices.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein the data is responsive, at least in part, to a common action among users of the plurality of mobile communications devices.
</claims>
</document>
