<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
IVANCHENKO, Yevgeniy
FLANAGAN, Adrian
TAN, Kuan Eeik
FU, Qiang
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60935863
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CLIENT, SERVER, AND CLIENT-SERVER SYSTEM ADAPTED FOR GENERATING PERSONALIZED RECOMMENDATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A client including a processor and a memory having computer readable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the client to connect to a server utilizing a global set of items and at least one model. The client is also caused to utilize at least one model downloaded from said server. The client is additionally caused to generate a recommendation set, including at least one of said items based on said at least one of said downloaded models and a local client data set stored on said client. The recommendation set includes a personalized item recommendation for a user of said client.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A client, comprising: a processor; and a memory having computer readable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the client to: connect to a server utilizing a global set of items and at least one model; utilize at least one model downloaded from said server; and generate a recommendation set, comprising at least one of said items based on said at least one of said downloaded models and a local client data set stored on said client, wherein the recommendation set comprises a personalized item recommendation for a user of said client.
2. The client according to claim 1, wherein said at least one model comprises at least one of a Collaborative Filtering mode, a Predictive Modeling mode, or a Deep Learning Model.
3. The client according to claim 1, wherein said client data set comprises at least one of implicit user feedback or explicit user feedback.
4. The client according to claim 1, wherein said recommendation set is generated based on a combination of two models and said client data set, wherein a first model is a Collaborative Filtering model and a second model is a Predictive Modeling model.
5. The client according to claim 1, wherein said recommendation set comprises a first recommendation set generated based on a first model and said client data, and a second recommendation set generated based on a second model, said first recommendation set, and said client data set.
6. The client according to claim 5, wherein the client is further caused to: select and score individual items of said first recommendation set to generate said second recommendation set.
7. The client according to claim 1, wherein said client is configured to update each downloaded model, and the client is further caused to: calculate an updated model based on said downloaded model and said local client data set; upload said updated model to said server to calculate a new updated model; download said new updated model from said server; and calculate at least one further updated model based on said new updated model and said local client data set.
8. The client according to claim 1, wherein said client is configured to calculate at least one update for each model, and the client is further caused to: calculate an update for each downloaded model based on said local client data set; upload said update to said sever to calculate an updated model; download said updated model from said server; calculate a new update for said updated model based on said local client data set; and calculate at least one further updated model based on said updated model, said new update and said local client data set.
9. The client according to claim 8, wherein calculating an update comprises calculating a value for each item based on a cost function.
10. The client according to claim 7, wherein said client is further caused to: generate a recommendation set based on said further updated model and said local client data set.
11. A server, comprising: a processor; and a memory having computer readable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the server to: connect to a plurality of clients to communicate one or more models to each client and cause each client to generate one or more updated models or updates for said one or more models; generate one or more new updated models based on the updated models or the updates received from at least one of said clients; and transmit said new updated models to said plurality of clients to cause each client to generate personalized item recommendations for a user of said client based on said new updated model(s) and a local client data set, stored on said client, wherein said personalized item recommendations comprise at least one item of a global set of items utilized by the server.
12. The server according to claim 11, wherein said server is assigned at least one model of the one or more models prior to utilizing said at least one model, and the at least one model is assigned based on a random model or a previously known model.
13. The server according to claim 11, wherein said server is further caused to: determine several of said clients, each determined client being configured to calculate the updated models based on said models received from the server and said local client data set, and to upload said updated models to said server; receive the updated models unloaded by at least one of said determined clients; and calculate said new updated models by averaging said received, updated models.
14. The server according to claim 11, wherein said server is further caused to: determine several of said clients, each determined client (i) being configured to calculate the update for each model based on said local client data set, and to upload said updates to said server; receive said updates uploaded by at least one of said determined clients; and calculate said new updated model based on said model and an aggregate of said received updates.
15. (canceled)
16. A machine learning client-server system, comprising: a server utilizing a global set of items and at least one model; and a plurality of clients, each client comprising: a processor; and a memory having computer readable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the client to: connect to said server; utilize at least one model downloaded from said server; and generate a recommendation set, comprising at least one of said items based on said at least one of said downloaded models and a local client data set stored on said client, wherein the recommendation set comprises a personalized item recommendation for a user of said client.
17. The machine learning client-server system according to claim 16, wherein said server is configured to: communicate the one or more models to each client and cause each client to generate one or more updated models or updates for said one or more models; generate one or more new updated models based on the updated models or the updates received from at least one of said clients; and transmit said new updated models to said plurality of clients to cause each client to generate the personalized item recommendations for the user of said client based on said new updated models and a local client data set stored on said client.
18. The machine learning client-server system according to claim 16, wherein said server is assigned at least one model of the one or more models prior to utilizing said at least one model, and the at least one model is assigned based on a random model or a previously known model.
19. The machine learning client-server system according to claim 16, wherein said client is configured to update each downloaded model, and the client is further caused to: calculate an updated model based on said downloaded and said local client data set; upload said updated model to said server to calculate a new updated model; download said new updated model from said server; and calculate at least one further updated model based on said new updated model-and said local client data set.
20. The machine learning client-server system according to claim 16, wherein said client is configured to calculate at least one update for each model, and the client is further caused to: calculate an update for each downloaded model based on said local client data set; upload said update to said server to calculate an updated model; download said updated model from said server; calculate a new update for said updated model based on said local client data set; and calculate at least one further updated model based on said updated model said new update and said local client data set.
21. The machine learning client-server system according to claim 20, wherein said client is further caused to: generate a recommendation set based on said further updated model and said local client data set.
</claims>
</document>
