<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B1/00,A61B1/31
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OLYMPUS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
TOJO, RYO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64660713
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INSERTION SUPPORT SYSTEM AND INSERTION SUPPORT METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
An insertion support system includes a state acquisition apparatus configured to acquire first information. The first information includes at least one of: a plurality of pieces of position information related to a plurality of positions of an insertion section to be inserted into an insertion target body; and a plurality of pieces of direction vector information in a longitudinal axis direction of the insertion section. The insertion support system also includes a support information calculator configured to calculate second information related to a rotation quantity of the insertion section based on the first information, and an output section configured to output the second information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An insertion support system comprising: a state acquisition apparatus configured to acquire first information, the first information comprising at least one of: a plurality of pieces of position information related to a plurality of positions of an insertion section to be inserted into an insertion target body; and a plurality of pieces of direction vector information in a longitudinal axis direction of the insertion section; a support information calculator configured to calculate second information related to a rotation quantity of the insertion section based on the first information; and an output section configured to output the second information.
2. The insertion support system according to claim 1, wherein: the first information is the plurality of pieces of direction vector information; and the support information calculator is configured to calculate the rotation quantity of the insertion section based on a change of the plurality of pieces of direction vector information.
3. The insertion support system according to claim 2, wherein: the plurality of pieces of direction vector information include a rotation detection vector for detecting the rotation quantity, and a reference vector serving as a reference for the rotation detection vector; and the support information calculator is configured to perform a rotation calculation that causes the reference vector after a rotation operation of the insertion section to be oriented in the same direction as the reference vector before the rotation operation of the insertion section, on the rotation detection vector after a rotation operation of the insertion section, and to calculate the rotation quantity of the insertion section based on the rotation detection vector rotated by the rotation calculation performed on the rotation detection vector after the rotation operation.
4. The insertion support system according to claim 1, wherein the support information calculator is configured to calculate a rotation detection plane based on the first information, and calculate the rotation quantity of the insertion section based on a change of an angle of the rotation detection plane before and after rotation.
5. The insertion support system according to claim 4, wherein: the first information includes the direction vector information, and the direction vector information includes a reference vector for the rotation detection plane; and the support information calculator is configured to perform a rotation calculation that causes the reference vector after the rotation operation to be oriented in the same direction as the reference vector before the rotation operation, on the rotation detection plane after a rotation operation of the insertion section, and to calculate the rotation quantity of the insertion section based on a change of an angle of the rotation detection plane rotated by the rotation calculation performed on the rotation detection plane after the rotation operation.
6. The insertion support system according to claim 4, wherein the first information used to calculate the rotation detection plane is a plurality of pieces of position information of a curved portion of the insertion section having a curvature equal to or greater than a certain value.
7. The insertion support system according to claim 1, wherein: the first information is a plurality of pieces of position information of the insertion section; and the support information calculator is configured to calculate the rotation quantity of the insertion section based on a relative change of the plurality of pieces of position information.
8. The insertion support system according to claim 7, wherein: the plurality of pieces of position information include a rotation detection point for detecting rotation, a first rotation reference point serving as a reference for the rotation, and a calculation reference axis serving as a reference for calculating the rotation quantity of the insertion section; the support information calculator is configured to calculate the rotation quantity of the insertion section based on a change of an angle formed between the calculation reference axis and a line connecting the rotation detection point and the first rotation reference point.
9. The insertion support system according to claim 7, wherein: the plurality of pieces of position information include a rotation detection point for detecting rotation, and a first rotation reference point serving as a reference for the rotation; and the support information calculator is configured to calculate the rotation quantity of the insertion section based on a distance between the rotation detection point and the first rotation reference point.
10. The insertion support system according to claim 9, wherein: the support information calculator includes a threshold for the distance between the rotation detection point and the first rotation reference point, the threshold serving as a reference for calculating the rotation quantity of the insertion section; and the support information calculator is configured to calculate the rotation quantity of the insertion section based on a difference between the distance and the threshold.
11. The insertion support system according to claim 8, wherein: the first information comprises the plurality of pieces of position information and the direction vector information; the direction vector information includes a reference vector that corrects the rotation detection point and serves as a reference; the support information calculator is configured to perform a rotation calculation that causes the reference vector after a rotation operation of the insertion section to be oriented in the same direction as the reference vector before the rotation operation of the insertion section, on the rotation detection point, and to calculate the rotation quantity of the insertion section based on the rotation detection point rotated by the rotation calculation.
12. The insertion support system according to claim 1, wherein the support information calculator is configured to calculate the rotation quantity of the insertion section using the first information and an algorithm among a plurality of algorithms that include a machine learning algorithm constructed in advance by machine learning based on training data, the training data being a plurality of data associated with the rotation quantity of the insertion section.
13. The insertion support system according to claim 12 wherein: the plurality of algorithms further include a geometric calculation algorithm for geometrically calculating the rotation quantity of the insertion section based on the first information; and the insertion support system comprises a storage section configured to store the plurality of algorithms, and a selection instruction section configured to select the algorithm to be used by the support information calculator from among the plurality of algorithms and instruct the support information calculator to use the selected algorithm.
14. The insertion support system according to claim 13, wherein the selection instruction section is configured to compare the first information with the training data, and to select the algorithm from among the plurality of algorithms based on a result of the comparison.
15. The insertion support system according to claim 1, wherein the support information calculator is configured to calculate a change of a posture of the insertion target body based on the second information.
16. The insertion support system according to claim 15, wherein: the support information calculator is configured to perform a rotation calculation with the same amount as that of the rotation quantity constituting the second information on the position information of the insertion section before or after rotation, or on the direction vector information as the first information of the insertion section before rotation; and the support information calculator is configured to determine that the posture has been changed if a change of the position information of the insertion section or a change of the direction vector information of the insertion section before and after rotation is less than a threshold.
17. The insertion support system according to claim 16, wherein the support information calculator is configured to correct the change of the position information or the change of the direction vector information caused by a directional change of gravity due to the change of the posture of the insertion target body.
18. The insertion support system according to claim 15, wherein the support information calculator is configured to determine that the posture has been changed if the change of the position information of the insertion section before and after rotation near an entrance of the insertion target body is equal to or greater than a threshold.
19. The insertion support system according to claim 1, wherein the state acquisition apparatus comprises: a magnetic field generator configured to generate a magnetic field; a magnetic field detector configured to detect an intensity of the magnetic field generated from the magnetic field generator; and a position shape acquisition section configured to acquire the first information based on a result of the detection of the magnetic field detector, the magnetic field generator or the magnetic field detector is more than one, the magnetic field generator or the magnetic field detector being disposed inside the insertion section and disposed at different positions in the longitudinal axis direction of the insertion section, and remaining one of the magnetic field generator or the magnetic field detector is disposed outside the insertion section and fixed in place.
20. An insertion support method comprising: acquiring first information, the first information comprising at least one of: a plurality of pieces of position information related to a plurality of positions of an insertion section to be inserted into an insertion target body; and a plurality of pieces of direction vector information in a longitudinal axis direction of the insertion section; calculating second information related to a rotation quantity of the insertion section based on the first information; and outputting the second information.
</claims>
</document>
