<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B17/309,H04B7/024,H04B7/0413
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
XCOM LABS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GROB, MATTHEW STUART
KADOUS, TAMER ADEL
FAN, MICHAEL MINGXI
BLACK, PETER JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70459257
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USER EQUIPMENT ASSISTED MULTIPLE-INPUT MULTIPLE-OUTPUT DOWNLINK CONFIGURATION
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of this disclosure relate to user equipment assisted multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) downlink configuration. Features are described for a user equipment determination of a desired transmission mode and/or active set of serving nodes for wireless communication service(s). The user equipment may submit a request for the desired mode and/or nodes to a network controller such as a baseband unit. The user equipment may subsequently receive a configuration for the requested wireless communication service(s).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. (canceled)
2. A method of controlling downlink data transmission, the method comprising: determining to wirelessly transmit to a user equipment in a coordinated multipoint mode based at least in part on channel state information associated with the user equipment and a measure of mobility of the user equipment; causing wireless transmission of active set data to the user equipment, the active set data identifying serving nodes for transmitting downlink data to the user equipment in the coordinated multipoint mode; and causing wireless transmission of the downlink data to the user equipment from the serving nodes in the coordinated multipoint mode.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising determining to wirelessly transmit to a second user equipment in an alternative downlink transmission mode based at least in part on channel state information associated with the second user equipment and a measure of mobility of the second user equipment.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the measure of mobility of the user equipment indicates lower mobility than the measure of mobility of the second user equipment.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the channel state information associated with the user indicates lower channel state variation than the channel state information associated with the second user equipment.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the alternative downlink transmission mode is a macro diversity mode.
7. The method of claim 2, further comprising determining to wirelessly transmit second downlink data to the user equipment in an alternative downlink transmission mode based at least in part on the user equipment having an updated measure of mobility indicating higher mobility than the measure of mobility of the user equipment.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: causing wireless transmission of updated active set data to the user equipment, wherein the updated active set data identifies one or more serving nodes for transmitting to the user equipment in the alternative downlink transmission mode; and causing wireless transmission of the second downlink data to the user equipment from the one or more serving nodes in the alternative downlink transmission mode.
9. The method of claim 2, further comprising determining to wirelessly transmit second downlink data to the user equipment in an alternative downlink transmission mode based at least in part on an increase in channel state variation associated with the user equipment relative to channel state variation associated with the channel state information.
10. The method of claim 2, wherein the determining to wirelessly transmit to the user equipment in a coordinated multipoint mode is also based at least in part on an estimated relative spectral efficiency for transmitting to the user equipment in coordinated multipoint mode being higher than for an alternative downlink transmission mode.
11. A network system for transmitting downlink data, the network system comprising: a plurality of serving nodes; and a scheduler in communication with the plurality of serving nodes, the scheduler comprising a processor and storing instructions, wherein the processor is configured to execute the instructions to: determine to wirelessly transmit to a user equipment in a coordinated multipoint mode based at least in part on channel state information associated with the user equipment and a measure of mobility of the user equipment; cause wireless transmission of active set data to the user equipment, the active set data identifying serving nodes for transmitting downlink data to the user equipment in the coordinated multipoint mode; and cause wireless transmission of the downlink data to the user equipment from the serving nodes in the coordinated multipoint mode.
12. The network system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the instructions to determine to wirelessly transmit to a second user equipment in an alternative downlink transmission mode based at least in part on a measure of mobility of the second user equipment being greater than a threshold, and wherein the measure of mobility of the user equipment is less than the threshold.
13. The network system of claim 12, wherein the alternative downlink transmission mode comprises at least one of: individual network node transmission, synchronized transmission across multiple network nodes for coherent combining, transmissions across multiple network nodes for non-coherent combining, or multiple transmissions for the user equipment to select.
14. The network system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the instructions to determine to wirelessly transmit to a second user equipment in an alternative downlink transmission mode based at least in part on a channel state variation associated with the second user equipment being greater than a threshold, and wherein the channel state information is associated with channel state variation that is less than the threshold.
15. The network system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the instructions to determine to wirelessly transmit second downlink data to the user equipment in an alternative downlink transmission mode based at least in part on the user equipment having an updated measure of mobility indicating higher mobility than the measure of mobility of the user equipment.
16. The network system of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the instructions to: cause wireless transmission of updated active set data to the user equipment, wherein the updated active set data identifies one or more serving nodes of the plurality of serving nodes for transmitting to the user equipment in the alternative downlink transmission mode; and cause wireless transmission of the second downlink data to the user equipment from the one or more serving nodes in the alternative downlink transmission mode.
17. The network system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the instructions to determine to wirelessly transmit second downlink data to the user equipment in an alternative downlink transmission mode based at least in part on an increase in channel state variation associated with the user equipment relative to channel state variation associated with the channel state information.
18. The network system of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to execute the instructions to determine to wirelessly transmit to the user equipment in a coordinated multipoint mode also based at least in part on an estimated relative spectral efficiency for transmitting to the user equipment in coordinated multipoint mode being higher than for an alternative downlink transmission mode.
19. A method of controlling downlink data transmission, the method comprising: while a user equipment has a mobility that is less than a threshold, causing wireless transmission of first downlink data to the user equipment in a coordinated multipoint mode; detecting that the mobility of the user equipment is greater than the threshold; and based at least in part on the detecting that the mobility of the user equipment is greater than the threshold, causing wireless transmission of second downlink data to the user equipment in an alternative downlink transmission mode.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising, prior to the causing wireless transmission of first downlink data, determining to operate in the coordinated multipoint mode based at least in part on channel state information associated with the user equipment and the mobility of the user equipment being less than the threshold.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the determining to operate in the coordinated multipoint mode is also based at least in part on an estimated relative spectral efficiency for transmitting the first downlink data to the user equipment in coordinated multipoint mode being higher than for the alternative downlink transmission mode.
22. The method of claim 19, further comprising: causing wireless transmission of active set data to the user equipment, wherein the active set data identifies serving nodes from which the user equipment receives the first downlink data in the coordinated multipoint mode; generating updated active set data identifying one or more serving nodes from which the user equipment receives the second downlink data in the alternative downlink mode; and causing wireless transmission of the updated active set data to the user equipment.
23. The method of claim 19, wherein the alternative downlink transmission mode comprises at least one of: individual network node transmission, synchronized transmission across multiple network nodes for coherent combining, transmissions across multiple network nodes for non-coherent combining, or multiple transmissions for the user equipment to select.
</claims>
</document>
