<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L12/24,H04L12/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
VASSEUR, JEAN-PHILIPPE
WULFF, SHARON SHOSHANA
Mermoud, Grégory
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72917124
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ADAPTIVE THRESHOLD SELECTION FOR SD-WAN TUNNEL FAILURE PREDICTION
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a supervisory service for a software-defined wide area network (SD-WAN) uses a plurality of different decision thresholds for a machine learning-based classifier, to predict tunnel failures of a tunnel in the SD-WAN. The supervisory service captures performance data indicative of performance of the classifier when using the different decision thresholds. The supervisory service selects, based on the captured performance data, a particular decision threshold for the classifier, in an attempt to optimize the performance of the classifier. The supervisory service uses the selected decision threshold for the classifier, to predict a tunnel failure of the tunnel.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: using, by a supervisory service for a software-defined wide area network (SD-WAN), a plurality of different decision thresholds for a machine learning-based classifier, to predict tunnel failures of a tunnel in the SD-WAN; capturing, by the supervisory service, performance data indicative of performance of the classifier when using the different decision thresholds; selecting, by the supervisory service and based on the captured performance data, a particular decision threshold for the classifier, in an attempt to optimize the performance of the classifier; and using, by the supervisory service, the selected decision threshold for the classifier, to predict a tunnel failure of the tunnel.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein capturing the performance data indicative of the performance of the classifier when using the different decision thresholds comprises: employing a lookback period to verify whether a tunnel failure predicted by the classifier using one of the decision thresholds actually occurred.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein the captured performance data comprises precision and recall metrics for the classifier.
4. The method as in claim 3, wherein selecting the particular decision threshold for the classifier, in an attempt to optimize the performance of the classifier comprises: computing a precision-recall curve for the classifier; setting a minimum acceptable precision on the precision-recall curve; and selecting a decision threshold that maximizes recall on the precision-recall curve while satisfying the minimum acceptable precision.
5. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: causing, by the supervisory service, the tunnel to advertise a maximum recall associated with the selected decision threshold for the classifier as a service level agreement (SLA) characteristic of the tunnel.
6. The method as in claim 1, wherein using the plurality of different decision thresholds of the machine learning-based classifier, to predict tunnel failures of the tunnel in the SD-WAN, comprises: switching a current decision threshold of the classifier to another one of the decision thresholds, based in part on whether the current decision threshold caused the classifier to switch from making correct tunnel failure predictions to an incorrect tunnel failure prediction.
7. The method as in claim 1, wherein a decision threshold of the classifier defines a threshold probability associated with a prediction made by the classifier that must be met for the prediction to be considered a tunnel failure prediction.
8. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: training, by the supervisory service, the machine learning-based classifier using a training dataset comprising telemetry data for a plurality of tunnels in the SD-WAN.
9. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: proactively rerouting the tunnel in the SD-WAN, based on the tunnel failure predicted by the classifier using the selected decision threshold.
10. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with one or more software-defined wide area networks (SD-WANs); a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed configured to: use a plurality of different decision thresholds for a machine learning-based classifier, to predict tunnel failures of a tunnel in the SD-WAN; capture performance data indicative of performance of the classifier when using the different decision thresholds; select, based on the captured performance data, a particular decision threshold for the classifier, in an attempt to optimize the performance of the classifier; and use the selected decision threshold for the classifier, to predict a tunnel failure of the tunnel.
11. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the apparatus captures the performance data indicative of the performance of the classifier when using the different decision thresholds by: employing a lookback period to verify whether a tunnel failure predicted by the classifier using one of the decision thresholds actually occurred.
12. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the captured performance data comprises precision and recall metrics for the classifier.
13. The apparatus as in claim 12, wherein the apparatus selects the particular decision threshold for the classifier, in an attempt to optimize the performance of the classifier by: computing a precision-recall curve for the classifier; setting a minimum acceptable precision on the precision-recall curve; and selecting a decision threshold that maximizes recall on the precision-recall curve while satisfying the minimum acceptable precision.
14. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: cause the tunnel to advertise a maximum recall associated with the selected decision threshold for the classifier as a service level agreement (SLA) characteristic of the tunnel.
15. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the apparatus uses the plurality of different decision thresholds of the machine learning-based classifier, to predict tunnel failures of the tunnel in the SD-WAN, by: switching a current decision threshold of the classifier to another one of the decision thresholds, based in part on whether the current decision threshold caused the classifier to switch from making correct tunnel failure predictions to an incorrect tunnel failure prediction.
16. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein a decision threshold of the classifier defines a threshold probability associated with a prediction made by the classifier that must be met for the prediction to be considered a tunnel failure prediction.
17. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: train the machine learning-based classifier using a training dataset comprising telemetry data for a plurality of tunnels in the SD-WAN.
18. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: proactively reroute the tunnel in the SD-WAN, based on the tunnel failure predicted by the classifier using the selected decision threshold.
19. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing program instructions that cause a supervisory service for a software-defined wide area network (SD-WAN) to execute a process comprising: using, by the supervisory service for the SD-WAN, a plurality of different decision thresholds for a machine learning-based classifier, to predict tunnel failures of a tunnel in the SD-WAN; capturing, by the supervisory service, performance data indicative of performance of the classifier when using the different decision thresholds; selecting, by the supervisory service and based on the captured performance data, a particular decision threshold for the classifier, in an attempt to optimize the performance of the classifier; and using, by the supervisory service, the selected decision threshold for the classifier, to predict a tunnel failure of the tunnel.
20. The computer-readable medium as in claim 19, further comprising: causing, by the supervisory service, the tunnel to advertise a maximum recall associated with the selected decision threshold for the classifier as a service level agreement (SLA) characteristic of the tunnel.
</claims>
</document>
