<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HERE GLOBAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
JANG, DONGWOOK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72921562
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD, APPARATUS, AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING A DISTANCE METRIC FOR SKILL OR FEATURE DATA OF A TALENT PLATFORM
</title>

<abstract>
An approach is provided for a distance metric for skill or feature data of a talent platform. The approach, for example, involves determining a first skill feature and a second skill feature from talent platform data. The talent platform data includes a plurality of data records storing a plurality of skills associated with a plurality of users. The approach also involves determining a count of the plurality of users that individually share both the first skill feature and the second skill feature. The approach further involves computing the distance metric to indicate a distance between the first skill feature and the second skill feature based on the determined count of the plurality of users.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for generating a distance metric for skill data of a talent platform comprising: determining a first skill feature and a second skill feature from talent platform data, wherein the talent platform data includes a plurality of data records storing a plurality of skills associated with a plurality of users; determining a count of the plurality of users that individually share both the first skill feature and the second skill feature; and computing the distance metric to indicate a distance between the first skill feature and the second skill feature based on the determined count of the plurality of users.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing an output comprising a ranking of candidate users based on the distance metric.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing the distance metric as an input feature for training a machine learning model to process the talent platform data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the second skill feature is part of a skill feature set comprising a plurality of skill features, the method further comprising: computing a skill-to-skill-set distance metric to indicate a distance between the first skill feature and the skill feature set based on the distance metric between the first skill feature and the second skill feature.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the skill-to skill-set distance metric is set equal to the distance metric between the first skill feature the second skill feature based on determining that the distance metric between the first skill feature and the second skill feature indicates a minimum distance to the first skill feature among the plurality of skill features in the skill feature set.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first skill feature is part of a first skill feature set comprising a first plurality of skill features and the second skill feature is part of a second skill feature set comprising a second plurality of skill features, the method further comprising: computing a skill-set-to-skill-set distance metric to indicate a distance between the first skill feature set and the second skill feature set based on a plurality of distance metrics computed between the first plurality of skill features and the second plurality of skill features.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the skill-set-to-skill-set distance metric is computed as a mean of the plurality of distance metrics.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the distance metric is inversely related to the determined number of plurality of users.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the distance metric is normalized to a value between a predetermined value range.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the first skill feature, the second skill feature, or a combination thereof is stored in the talent platform data as free text.
11. An apparatus for generating a distance metric for feature data of a talent platform comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more programs, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to perform at least the following, receiving a request to evaluate a candidate with a first skill feature against a platform opportunity associated with a second skill feature; computing the distance metric to indicate a distance between the first skill feature and the second skill feature based on talent platform data indicating a number of a plurality of users who individually share the first skill feature and the second skill feature; and generating an output evaluating the candidate against the platform opportunity based on the distance metric.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the output includes a ranking of the candidate against one or more other candidates based on the distance metric.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the apparatus is caused to: provide the distance metric as an input feature for a machine learning model to generate the output.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the second skill feature is part of a skill feature set comprising a plurality of skill features associated with the platform opportunity, and wherein the apparatus is further caused to: compute a skill-to-skill-set distance metric to indicate a distance between the first skill feature and the skill feature set based on the distance metric between the first skill feature and the second skill feature.
15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the first skill feature is part of a first skill feature set comprising a first plurality of skill features associated with the candidate and the second skill feature is part of a second skill feature set comprising a second plurality of skill features associated with the platform opportunity, and wherein the apparatus is further caused to: compute a skill-set-to-skill-set distance metric to indicate a distance between the first skill feature set and the second skill feature set based on a plurality of distance metrics computed between the first plurality of skill features and the second plurality of skill features.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for generating a distance metric for feature data of a talent platform, carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause an apparatus to perform: determining a first feature and a second feature from talent platform data, wherein the talent platform data includes a plurality of data records storing a plurality of features associated with a plurality of users; determining a count of the plurality of users that individually share both the first feature and the second feature; and computing the distance metric to indicate a distance between the first feature and the second feature based on the determined count of the plurality of users.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the first feature, the second feature, the plurality of features, or a combination thereof includes a skill feature indicating one or more skills possessed by the plurality of users.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the apparatus is caused to further perform: providing an output comprising a ranking of candidate users based on the distance metric.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the second feature is part of a feature set comprising a plurality of features, and wherein the apparatus is caused to further perform: computing a feature-to-feature-set distance metric to indicate a distance between the first feature and the feature set based on the distance metric between the first feature and the second feature.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the first feature is part of a first feature set comprising a first plurality of features and the second feature is part of a second feature set comprising a second plurality of features, and wherein the apparatus is caused to further perform: computing a feature-set-to-feature-set distance metric to indicate a distance between the first feature set and the second feature set based on a plurality of distance metrics computed between the first plurality of features and the second plurality of features.
</claims>
</document>
