<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H20/40,G16H30/20,G16H40/20,G16H70/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DUKE UNIVERSITY
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA
THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT AS REPRESENTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GE, YAORONG
SHENG, YANG
Kelsey, Christopher
Wu, Qingrong
Mistro, Matthew
Salama, Joseph
Yin, Fang Fang
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102371
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR RADIATION TREATMENT PLANNER TRAINING BASED ON KNOWLEDGE DATA AND TRAINEE INPUT OF PLANNING ACTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for radiation treatment planner training based on knowledge data and trainee input of planning actions are disclosed. According to an aspect, a method includes receiving case data including anatomical and/or geometric characterization data of a target volume and one or more organs at risk. Further, the method includes presenting, via a user interface, the case data to a trainee. The method also includes receiving input indicating an action to apply to the case. The input indicating parameters for generating a treatment plan that applies radiation dose to the target volume and one or more parameters for constraining radiation to the one or more organs at risk. The method includes applying training models to the action and the case data to generate analysis data of at least one parameter of the action. The method includes presenting the analysis data of the at least one parameter of the action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: at at least one computing device: receiving case data including patient disease information, historical medical information, anatomical and/or geometric characterization data of a target volume and one or more organs at risk; presenting, via a user interface, the case data to a trainee; receiving, via the user interface from the trainee, input indicating an action to apply to the case, the input indicating one or more parameters for generating a treatment plan that applies radiation dose to the target volume and one or more parameters for constraining radiation to the one or more organs at risk; applying training models to the action and the case data to generate analysis data of at least one parameter of the action; and presenting, via the user interface, the analysis data of the at least one parameter of the action.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the case data comprises patient's disease information, historical medical information, medical image data, tumor target, normal critical organ structure information, and/or treatment objectives including total dose and fractions.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the target volume comprises shape and volume of the gross tumor, clinical tumor volume, internal tumor volume with consideration of breathing and other motion, planning target volume, from one or multiple imaging modalities.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the training models are from within the system from multiple units and include knowledge models for treatment planning, domain models for treatment principles, hint models for feedback, and student models for trainee evaluation.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the anatomical and/or geometric characterization data comprises data of a subject.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the analysis data comprises a radiation therapy principle about treating having the same or similar disease condition or other medical condition, anatomical data, and/or geometric characterization data as the subject.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the analysis data comprises radiation therapy principles including practice guidelines, historical radiation toxicity data, relevant plan quality data, radiation biology data, radiation physics guidelines and theories about treating having the same or similar disease condition, other medical conditions, anatomical data of the tumor and normal organs, and/or geometric characterization data as the subject.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the analysis data comprises a radiation therapy toxicity data and relevant plan quality data about treating having the same or similar disease condition, anatomical data, and/or geometric characterization data as the subject.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the analysis data comprises one of selection total dose and fractions strategy to the one or more tumor target volumes and priorities based on training models within the system and from one or more knowledge units.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving input indicating the action comprises receiving one of a beam energy and angle selection and a dose-volume selection for application to the target volume.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving input indicating the action comprises receiving a dose-volume selection for application to one or more organ at risk and priority.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving input indicating the action comprises receiving one or more parameters about total dose, daily dose fraction, coverage criteria to the target volume.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the target volume comprises part of the liver, lung, kidney, brain, neck, stomach, pancreas, spine, bladder, and/or rectum, or other body regions where tumor resides.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more organs at risk comprises heart, lung, kidney, liver, brain, neck, stomach, pancreas, spine, bladder, and/or rectum, or other relevant radio-sensitive normal tissues and organs.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters indicate a maximum radiation dosage to the one or more organs at risk as a whole or a certain portion of the volume.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters indicate a total radiation dose and fraction of one or more target volumes in total or partially with the dose constraint parameters of one or more organs at risk.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters indicate a parameter about a radiation beam, including energy, incident angles of static beam, start or stop angles of the rotation, beam size and shape.
18. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, via the user interface from the trainee, a request or a question regarding the analysis data; and presenting, via the user interface, the feedback for the trainee regarding the at least one parameter of the action.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein the analysis data comprises missing knowledge of the trainee, wherein the method further comprises: presenting the missing knowledge; identification of missing knowledge and links of missing knowledge to one or more training models within the system receiving input of action from the trainee; and updating a plan based on the received input.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein presenting the missing knowledge comprises presenting an error of taking the action, an explanation of the missing knowledge, an example case presenting the missing knowledge, a simulation or synthetic phantom case presenting the missing knowledge, a list of references of published practice guidelines, and/or a corrective action.
21. The method of claim 19, wherein presenting the missing knowledge comprises presenting the missing knowledge via text, graphics, audio, and/or animation.
22. A method comprising: at at least one computing device: receiving case data comprising subject disease information, other medical condition information, and/or anatomical and/or geometric characterization data of a target volume and one or more organs at risk of a subject; providing identification of one or more treatment plan analysis points for the subject; providing knowledge data about treatment of the subject at the one or more treatment plan analysis points; presenting, via a user interface, the case data to a trainee and the identified one or more treatment plan analysis units, and questions regarding the points; receiving, via the user interface from the trainee, response input to presentation of the one or more treatment plan analysis points; and in response to receipt of the response input: generating analysis data of trainee feedback based on training models and the response input; and presenting the analysis data via the user interface to the trainee.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the case data comprises disease information, other medical information, tumor target and normal critical organ structure information.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein the knowledge data comprises practice guidelines, example patient cases, synthetic or simulated case/scenarios, and/or radiation physics and radiation biology principles.
25. The method of claim 22, wherein the trainee feedback comprises a principle about treating having the same or similar condition, anatomical data, and/or geometric characterization data as the subject.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the principle comprises specific practice guideline, radiation toxicity data, beam energy and angle preferences, and/or organ sparing preferences.
27. The method of claim 22, wherein the trainee feedback comprises one of a beam energy and angle selection, a dose-volume selection, or a total dose and fraction selection based on knowledge data.
28. The method of claim 22, wherein receiving input indicating the action comprises receiving, via the user interface, one of a beam angle selection, a dose-volume selection, or a total dose and fraction selection for application to the target volume.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein determining trainee feedback comprises determining trainee feedback based on the one of a beam energy and angle selection, a dose-volume selection, or a total dose and fraction selection.
30. The method of claim 22, wherein the trainee feedback comprises visual feedback comprising a dose-volume histogram (DVH) curve, three-dimensional dose distributions of the subject and the derivate such as normal tissue complication probability, tumor control probability, radiobiological equivalent dose etc., computed from one or more training models within the system
31. The method of claim 22, wherein the response input comprises selection of a point on the DVH curve.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein the trainee feedback comprises indication of another point on the DVH curve.
33. The method of claim 31, wherein the trainee feedback comprises indication of normal tissue complication probability (NTCP).
34. The method of claim 22, wherein the target volume comprises liver, lung, kidney, brain, neck, stomach, pancreas, spine, bladder, and/or rectum.
35. The method of claim 22, wherein the one or more organs at risk comprises heart, lung, kidney, liver, brain, neck, stomach, pancreas, spine, bladder, and/or rectum.
36. The method of claim 22, further comprising: presenting, via the user interface, the analysis data of the at least one parameter of the action; receiving, via the user interface from the trainee, request regarding the analysis data; and presenting, via the user interface, the most appropriate feedback for the trainee regarding the at least one parameter of the action.
37. A system comprising: a computing device including a user interface and a radiation treatment planner training module configured to: receive case data including anatomical and/or geometric characterization data of a target volume and one or more organs at risk; present, via the user interface, the case data to a trainee; receive, via the user interface from the trainee, input indicating an action to apply to the case, the input indicating one or more parameters for generating a treatment plan that applies radiation dose to the target volume and one or more parameters for constraining radiation to the one or more organs at risk; apply training models to the action and the case data to generate analysis data of at least one parameter of the action; and present, via the user interface, the analysis data of the at least one parameter of the action.
38. A system comprising: a computing device including a user interface and a radiation treatment planner training module configured to: receive case data comprising subject disease information, other medical condition information, and/or anatomical and/or geometric characterization data of a target volume and one or more organs at risk of a subject; provide identification of one or more treatment plan analysis points for the subject; provide knowledge data about treatment of the subject at the one or more treatment plan analysis points; present, via the user interface, the case data to a trainee and the identified one or more treatment plan analysis units, and questions regarding the units; receive, via the user interface from the trainee, response input to presentation of the one or more treatment plan analysis points; and in response to receipt of the response input: generate analysis data of trainee feedback based on knowledge data and the response input; and present the analysis data via the user interface to the trainee.
</claims>
</document>
