<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9032,G10L15/08,G10L15/18,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BRIGHT MARBLES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CRONIN, JOHN
CUMMINGS, BURT
D'ANDREA, MICHAEL
GOODWIN, JEFFERY
KADABA, NAGESH
ROOT, CHARLES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69583761
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENCE-DRIVEN VIRTUAL ASSISTANT FOR AUTOMATED IDEA DOCUMENTATION
</title>

<abstract>
An intelligence-driven virtual assistant for automated documentation of new ideas is provided. During a brainstorming session, one or more user participants may discuss and identify one or more ideas. Such ideas may be tracked, catalogued, analyzed, developed, and further expanded upon through use of an intelligence-driven virtual assistant. Such virtual assistant may capture user input data embodying one or more new ideas and intelligently process the same in accordance with creativity tool workflows. Such workflows may further guide development and expansion upon a given idea, while continuing to document, analyze, and identify further aspects to develop and expand.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for ideation management, the system comprising memory that stores a plurality of templates, each template associated with a different set of fields; a microphone that captures audio data during a session; and a processor that executes instructions stored in memory, wherein execution of the instructions by the processor: identifies that the audio data includes a trigger term indicative of intent to record an idea, parses the audio data to identify one or more keywords spoken subsequent to the trigger term, wherein the idea is defined based on the identified keywords, poses a series of queries to one or more participants in the session, wherein each successive query is based on a response to a preceding query, selects one or more templates from the database based on responses to the series of queries, and prepares a disclosure report based on the selected templates, wherein preparing the disclosure report comprises populating the fields of the selected templates with the responses to the series of queries.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory further stores a database of creativity tools, and wherein the processor executes a selected one of the creativity tools during the session, the audio data including interaction by the participant s with the selected creativity tool.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the processor selects the selected creativity tool based on a current state of the session in accordance with rules refined by deep learning.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory further stores a record of the idea, the record including one or more files.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein at least one of the files includes a recording of the audio data.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein at least one of the files includes a transcription of the audio data.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor poses the series of queries via at least one of a virtual assistant and a chatbot.
8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a network interface that: communicates a search request over a communication network with one or more data sources, the search request regarding background data for the idea defined based on the keywords; and receives one or more search results from the data sources; and wherein the processor: filters the received search results based on a level of similarity to the idea to identify a set of search results that meet at least a predetermined level of similarity, and populates a template associated with background data, wherein the populated background template is compiled into the disclosure report.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor further flags one or more portions of each search result that meet the predetermined level of similarity, and presents the flagged portions to the participants.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the templates corresponds to a technical invention, and wherein the set of fields in the at least one template corresponds to technical invention elements.
11. A method for ideation management, the method comprising storing a plurality of templates in memory, each template associated with a different set of fields; capturing audio data via a microphone during a session; and executing instructions stored in memory, wherein execution of the instructions by a processor: identifies that the audio data includes a trigger term indicative of intent to record an idea, parses the audio data to identify one or more keywords spoken subsequent to the trigger term, wherein the idea is defined based on the identified keywords, poses a series of queries to one or more participants in the session, wherein each successive query is based on a response to a preceding query, selects one or more templates from the database based on responses to the series of queries, and prepares a disclosure report based on the selected templates, wherein preparing the disclosure report comprises populating the fields of the selected templates with the responses to the series of queries.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising storing a database of creativity tools in the memory, and executing a selected one of the creativity tools during the session, the audio data including interaction by the participant s with the selected creativity tool.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising selecting the selected creativity tool based on a current state of the session in accordance with rules refined by deep learning.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising storing a record of the idea in memory, the record including one or more files.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein at least one of the files includes a recording of the audio data.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein at least one of the files includes a transcription of the audio data.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the series of queries are posed via at least one of a virtual assistant and a chatbot.
18. The method of claim 11, further comprising: communicating a search request over a communication network with one or more data sources, the search request regarding background data for the idea defined based on the keywords; receiving one or more search results from the data sources; filtering the received search results based on a level of similarity to the idea to identify a set of search results that meet at least a predetermined level of similarity; and populating a template associated with background data, wherein the populated background template is compiled into the disclosure report.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising flagging one or more portions of each search result that meet the predetermined level of similarity, and presenting the flagged portions to the participants.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein at least one of the templates corresponds to a technical invention, and wherein the set of fields in the at least one template corresponds to technical invention elements.
21. A non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium, having embodied thereon a program executable by a processor to perform a method for ideation management, the method comprising storing a plurality of templates in memory, each template associated with a different set of fields; capturing audio data via a microphone during a session; identifying that the audio data includes a trigger term indicative of intent to record an idea; parsing the audio data to identify one or more keywords spoken subsequent to the trigger term, wherein the idea is defined based on the identified keywords; posing a series of queries to one or more participants in the session, wherein each successive query is based on a response to a preceding query; selecting one or more templates from the database based on responses to the series of queries; and preparing a disclosure report based on the selected templates, wherein preparing the disclosure report comprises populating the fields of the selected templates with the responses to the series of queries.
</claims>
</document>
