<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01H71/04,H01H71/12,H01H71/24,H02H1/00,H02H3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMBER SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
TELEFUS, MARK
Burkhard, Timothy D.
Baker, Damon M.
Tostenson, David J.
Maxwell, Graham L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73228389
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT CIRCUIT BREAKERS WITH VISUAL INDICATORS TO PROVIDE OPERATIONAL STATUS
</title>

<abstract>
A circuit breaker includes a circuit breaker housing, an air-gap switch disposed within the housing, and a first visual indicator configured to provide an indication of an open state and a closed state of the air-gap switch. The first visual indicator includes a first window that is formed as part of the circuit breaker housing, and first and second indicator elements disposed within the circuit breaker housing. The first indicator element is configured to move into position behind the first window as the air-gap switch is placed into the open state and thereby provide a visual indication of the open state of the air-gap switch. The second indicator element is configured to move into position behind the first window as the air-gap switch is placed into the closed state and thereby provide a visual indication of the closed state of the air-gap switch.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A circuit breaker, comprising: a circuit breaker housing; an air-gap switch disposed within the circuit breaker housing, the air-gap switch comprising a first contact and a second contact disposed in an electrical path between a line input terminal and a load output terminal of the circuit breaker; an actuator mechanism disposed within the circuit breaker housing, wherein the air-gap switch is coupled to the actuator mechanism, and wherein the actuator mechanism is operatively configured to (i) mechanically force the first and second contacts apart to place the air-gap switch into an open state and create an air-gap in the electrical path, and (ii) mechanically force the first and second contacts together to place the air-gap switch into a closed state; and a first visual indicator configured to provide an indication of a state of the air-gap switch, wherein the first visual indicator comprises (i) a first window that is formed as part of the circuit breaker housing, (ii) a first indicator element coupled to the actuator mechanism and (iii) a second indicator element coupled to the actuator mechanism; wherein the actuator mechanism is configured to move the first indicator element into position behind the first window as the actuator mechanism places the air-gap switch into the open state, such that the first indicator element is viewable through the first window to provide an indication of the open state of the air-gap switch; and wherein the actuator mechanism is configured to move the second indicator element into position behind the first window as the actuator mechanism places the air-gap switch into the closed state, such that the second indicator element is viewable through the first window to provide an indication of the closed state of the air-gap switch.
2. The circuit breaker of claim 1, wherein the first indicator element comprises a colored element having a first color, and wherein the second indicator element comprises a colored element having a second color, which is different from the first color.
3. The circuit breaker of claim 1, further comprising a second visual indicator configured to provide an indication of an operational state of the circuit breaker, wherein the second visual indicator comprises (i) a second window that is formed as part of the circuit breaker housing, and (ii) at least one light-emitting element disposed within the circuit breaker housing behind the second window.
4. The circuit breaker of claim 3, wherein the at least one light-emitting element comprises a light emitting diode.
5. The circuit breaker of claim 3, wherein the at least one light-emitting element is configured to emit light of a first color which is viewable through the second window to provide an indication of a non-tripped operating state of the circuit breaker.
6. The circuit breaker of claim 5, wherein the at least one light-emitting element is configured to emit light of a second color which is viewable through the second window to provide an indication of a tripped state of the circuit breaker.
7. The circuit breaker of claim of claim 3, wherein the at least one light-emitting element is deactivated and emits no light to provide an indication of an off state of the circuit breaker.
8. The circuit breaker of claim 1, further comprising a manual control switch mechanically coupled to the actuator mechanism, wherein the manual control switch is configured to toggle between a first position and a second position, wherein toggling the manual control switch into the first position causes the actuator mechanism to place the air-gap switch into the open state.
9. The circuit breaker of claim 1, further comprising an electromechanical actuator coupled to the actuator mechanism, wherein actuation of the electromechanical actuator causes the actuator mechanism to place the air-gap switch into the open state and trip the circuit breaker.
10. The circuit breaker of claim 9, wherein the electromechanical actuator comprises a solenoid.
11. A circuit breaker, comprising: a solid-state switch and an air-gap switch connected in series in an electrical path between a line input terminal and a load output terminal of the circuit breaker, wherein the air-gap switch comprises a first contact and a second contact; an actuator mechanism operatively configured to (i) mechanically force the first and second contacts apart to place the air-gap switch into an open state and create an air-gap in the electrical path, and (ii) mechanically force the first and second contacts together to place the air-gap switch into a closed state; a manual control switch operatively coupled to the actuator mechanism, wherein the manual control switch is configured to toggle between a first position and a second position, wherein toggling the manual control switch into the first position causes the actuator mechanism to place the air-gap switch into the open state; an electromechanical actuator operatively coupled to the actuator mechanism, wherein. actuation of the electromechanical actuator causes the actuator mechanism to place the air-gap switch into the open state; control circuitry configured to control operation of the solid-state switch and the electromechanical actuator, wherein the control circuitry is configured to generate (i) a first control signal that is configured to place the solid-state switch into one of a switched-on state and a switched-off state and (ii) a second control signal that is configured to control actuation of the electromechanical actuator; and a sensor switch operatively coupled to the manual control switch and electrically connected to the control circuitry, wherein the sensor switch is configured to (i) detect a toggling of the manual control switch from the second positon to the first position which causes the actuator mechanism to place the air-gap switch into the open state and (ii) in response to detecting the toggling of the manual control switch from the second positon to the first position, output a third control signal to the control circuitry; wherein in response to the third control signal, the control circuitry is configured to generate the first control signal to place the solid-state switch into the switched-off state before the air-gap switch is placed into the open state to create the air-gap in the electrical path.
12. The circuit breaker of claim 11, further comprising: a current sensor configured to sense a current flowing in the electrical path between the line input terminal and the load output terminal, and detect a fault condition based on the sensed current flow; wherein in response to detecting a fault condition by the current sensor, the control circuitry is configured to generate the first and second control signals to (i) place the solid-state switch into a switched-off state and (ii) actuate the electromechanical actuator to cause the actuation mechanism to place the air-gap electromagnetic switch into the open sate after the solid-state switch is placed into the switched-off state.
13. The circuit breaker of claim 11, wherein the electromechanical actuator comprises a solenoid.
14. The circuit breaker of claim 11, further comprising: a first visual indicator configured to provide an indication of the state of the air-gap switch, wherein the first visual indicator comprises (i) a first window that is formed as part of a circuit breaker housing of the circuit breaker, (ii) a first indicator element coupled to the actuator mechanism and (iii) a second indicator element coupled to the actuator mechanism; wherein the actuator mechanism is configured to move the first indicator element into position behind the first window as the actuator mechanism places the air-gap switch into the open state, such that the first indicator element is viewable through the first window to provide an indication of the open state of the air-gap switch; and wherein the actuator mechanism is configured to move the second indicator element into position behind the first window as the actuator mechanism places the air-gap switch into the closed state, such that the second indicator element is viewable through the first window to provide an indication of the closed state of the air-gap switch.
15. The circuit breaker of claim 14, wherein the first indicator element comprises a colored element having a first color, and wherein the second indicator element comprises a colored element having a second color, which is different from the first color.
16. The circuit breaker of claim 11, further comprising a second visual indicator configured to provide an indication of an operational state of the circuit breaker, wherein the second visual indicator comprises (i) a second window that is formed as part of the circuit breaker housing, and (ii) at least one light-emitting element disposed within the circuit breaker housing behind the second window.
17. The circuit breaker of claim 16, wherein the at least one light-emitting element comprises a light emitting diode.
18. The circuit breaker of claim 16, wherein the at least one light-emitting element is configured to: emit light of a first color which is viewable through the second window to provide an indication of a non-tripped operating state of the circuit breaker; emit light of a second color which is viewable through the second window to provide an indication of a tripped state of the circuit breaker; and emit no light to provide an indication of an off state of the circuit breaker.
19. A circuit breaker comprising: a circuit breaker housing; an air-gap switch disposed within the circuit breaker housing; and a first visual indicator configured to provide an indication of an open state and a closed state of the air-gap switch, wherein the first visual indicator comprises (i) a first window that is formed as part of the circuit breaker housing, (ii) a first indicator element disposed within the circuit breaker housing, and (iii) a second indicator element disposed within the circuit breaker housing; wherein the first indicator element is configured to move into position behind the first window as the air-gap switch is placed into the open state, such that the first indicator element is viewable through the first window to provide an indication of the open state of the air-gap switch; and wherein the second indicator element is configured to move into position behind the first window as the air-gap switch is placed into the closed state, such that the second indicator element is viewable through the first window to provide an indication of the closed state of the air-gap switch.
20. The circuit breaker of claim 19, further comprising: a second visual indicator configured to provide an indication of an operational state of the circuit breaker, wherein the second visual indicator comprises (i) a second window that is formed as part of the circuit breaker housing, and (ii) at least one light-emitting element disposed within the circuit breaker housing behind the second window; wherein the at least one light-emitting element is configured to emit light of at least one color through the second window to provide an indication of an operational state of the circuit breaker corresponding to the at least one color.
</claims>
</document>
