<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,G06F9/54,G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHARTI, HARISH
PIKLE, ANAND
PATRA, ABHAY
DHONDSE, AMOL
SAXENA, RAJESH KUMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71073116
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPLYING DIFFERENTIAL SECURITY TO API MESSAGE PAYLOAD DATA ELEMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A computer system message generated by an application programming interface (API) or addressed to the API can be received. A first data sensitivity score for at least a first of a plurality of data elements in a payload of the computer system message and at least second data sensitivity score for at least a second of the plurality of data elements in the payload of the computer system message can be determined. Based on the first data sensitivity score and at least the second data sensitivity score, a differential security can be applied to the computer system message. Applying the differential security can include masking the first of the plurality of data elements and not masking the second of the plurality of data elements. The computer system message can be electronically communicated the to a destination to which the message is addressed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving a computer system message generated by an application programming interface (API) or addressed to the API; determining a first data sensitivity score for at least a first of a plurality of data elements in a payload of the computer system message and determining at least second data sensitivity score for at least a second of the plurality of data elements in the payload of the computer system message; based on the first data sensitivity score and at least the second data sensitivity score, applying, using a processor, a differential security to the computer system message, applying the differential security comprising masking the first of the plurality of data elements and not masking the second of the plurality of data elements; and electronically communicating the computer system message to a destination to which the message is addressed.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the applying the differential security to the computer system message is responsive to determining that the first data sensitivity score exceeds a threshold value and determining that the second data sensitivity score does not exceed the threshold value.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein: the determining the first data sensitivity score comprises identifying first contextual information pertaining to the first of the plurality of data elements in the payload of the computer system message and determining the first data sensitivity score based, at least in part, on the first contextual information; and the determining the second data sensitivity score comprises identifying second contextual information pertaining to at least the second of the plurality of data elements in the payload of the computer system message and determining the first data sensitivity score based, at least in part, on the second contextual.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the determining the first data sensitivity score and the determining the second data sensitivity score comprises applying at least one data masking model to the plurality of data elements in the payload of the computer system message using the plurality of data elements, the first contextual information and the second contextual information as inputs to the at least one data masking model.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: training the at least one data masking model using situation-based ensemble masking, the situation-based ensemble masking comprising determining a sensitivity rating for each of a third plurality of data elements of a payload of a second computer system message based on contextual parameters pertaining to the third plurality of data elements.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: mapping the third plurality of data elements and the contextual parameters pertaining to the third plurality of data elements to input features used in the at least one data masking model.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: deriving the input features used in the at least one data masking model from a learning data and a knowledge corpus using artificial intelligence deep learning.
8. A system, comprising: a processor programmed to initiate executable operations comprising: receiving a computer system message generated by an application programming interface (API) or addressed to the API; determining a first data sensitivity score for at least a first of a plurality of data elements in a payload of the computer system message and determining at least second data sensitivity score for at least a second of the plurality of data elements in the payload of the computer system message; based on the first data sensitivity score and at least the second data sensitivity score, applying a differential security to the computer system message, applying the differential security comprising masking the first of the plurality of data elements and not masking the second of the plurality of data elements; and electronically communicating the computer system message to a destination to which the message is addressed.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the applying the differential security to the computer system message is responsive to determining that the first data sensitivity score exceeds a threshold value and determining that the second data sensitivity score does not exceed the threshold value.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein: the determining the first data sensitivity score comprises identifying first contextual information pertaining to the first of the plurality of data elements in the payload of the computer system message and determining the first data sensitivity score based, at least in part, on the first contextual information; and the determining the second data sensitivity score comprises identifying second contextual information pertaining to at least the second of the plurality of data elements in the payload of the computer system message and determining the first data sensitivity score based, at least in part, on the second contextual.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the determining the first data sensitivity score and the determining the second data sensitivity score comprises applying at least one data masking model to the plurality of data elements in the payload of the computer system message using the plurality of data elements, the first contextual information and the second contextual information as inputs to the at least one data masking model.
12. The system of claim 11, the executable operations further comprising: training the at least one data masking model using situation-based ensemble masking, the situation-based ensemble masking comprising determining a sensitivity rating for each of a third plurality of data elements of a payload of a second computer system message based on contextual parameters pertaining to the third plurality of data elements.
13. The system of claim 12, the executable operations further comprising: mapping the third plurality of data elements and the contextual parameters pertaining to the third plurality of data elements to input features used in the at least one data masking model.
14. The system of claim 13, the executable operations further comprising: deriving the input features used in the at least one data masking model from a learning data and a knowledge corpus using artificial intelligence deep learning.
15. A computer program product, comprising: a computer readable storage medium having program code stored thereon, the program code executable by a data processing system to initiate operations including: receiving a computer system message generated by an application programming interface (API) or addressed to the API; determining a first data sensitivity score for at least a first of a plurality of data elements in a payload of the computer system message and determining at least second data sensitivity score for at least a second of the plurality of data elements in the payload of the computer system message; based on the first data sensitivity score and at least the second data sensitivity score, applying a differential security to the computer system message, applying the differential security comprising masking the first of the plurality of data elements and not masking the second of the plurality of data elements; and electronically communicating the computer system message to a destination to which the message is addressed.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the applying the differential security to the computer system message is responsive to determining that the first data sensitivity score exceeds a threshold value and determining that the second data sensitivity score does not exceed the threshold value.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein: the determining the first data sensitivity score comprises identifying first contextual information pertaining to the first of the plurality of data elements in the payload of the computer system message and determining the first data sensitivity score based, at least in part, on the first contextual information; and the determining the second data sensitivity score comprises identifying second contextual information pertaining to at least the second of the plurality of data elements in the payload of the computer system message and determining the first data sensitivity score based, at least in part, on the second contextual.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the determining the first data sensitivity score and the determining the second data sensitivity score comprises applying at least one data masking model to the plurality of data elements in the payload of the computer system message using the plurality of data elements, the first contextual information and the second contextual information as inputs to the at least one data masking model.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the program code is executable by the data processing system to initiate operations further comprising: training the at least one data masking model using situation-based ensemble masking, the situation-based ensemble masking comprising determining a sensitivity rating for each of a third plurality of data elements of a payload of a second computer system message based on contextual parameters pertaining to the third plurality of data elements.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the program code is executable by the data processing system to initiate operations further comprising: mapping the third plurality of data elements and the contextual parameters pertaining to the third plurality of data elements to input features used in the at least one data masking model.
</claims>
</document>
