<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/455,G06F9/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DELL PRODUCTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KELLY, JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73746361
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR END USER EXPERIENCE BASED MIGRATION OF USER WORKLOADS ACROSS A COMPUTER CLUSTER
</title>

<abstract>
A method of migrating user workloads across a computer cluster, may include detecting a parameter associated with an end-user experience (EUE) during the emulation of a virtual machine (VM) operated within a virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) environment; creating a composite score descriptive of the EUE; and migrating a workload associated with the VM among the computer cluster when a threshold composite score is reached.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of migrating user workloads across a computer cluster, comprising: detecting a parameter associated with an end-user experience (EUE) during the emulation of a virtual machine (VM) operated within a virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) environment; creating a composite score descriptive of the EUE; and migrating a workload associated with the VM among the computer cluster when a threshold composite score is reached.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the parameter is a logon time, an application launch time, or network latency.
3. The method of claim 1, where the emulation of the virtual machine is initiated by a thin client communicatively coupled to the VDI environment.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein creating the composite score comprises assigning a score to the parameters associated with the EUE and aggregating those scores.
5. The method of claim 1, comprising updating a scoring rule associated with the creation of the composite score descriptive of the EUE by: accessing any node resource utilization (RU) and user environment (UE) information associated with the emulation of the VM; accessing any user-provided information associated with the EUE; calculating a Pearson Correlation Coefficient that correlates the user-provided information and the RU and UE information; and updating the scoring rule associated with creating a composite score and storing the updated scoring rule.
6. The method of claim 1, comprising updating a scoring rule associated with creating a composite score descriptive of the EUE and wherein the scoring rule is updated in series with the migration of the workload.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein migrating a workload associated with the VM among the computer cluster is based on resources within the VDI environment that, when the VM is migrated thereto, places the composite score below the threshold composite score.
8. A system for migrating a virtual machine within a computing cluster, comprising: a plurality of information handling systems communicatively coupled to cooperate in order to provide resources to a client device communicatively coupled to the plurality of information handling systems; an end-user experience (EUE) parameter module to detect a parameter associated with an end-user experience (EUE) during the emulation of a virtual machine (VM) by the client device; a scoring module to create a composite score descriptive of the EUE; and a migration module to migrate a workload associated with the VM among the resources provided by the plurality of information handling systems when a threshold composite score is reached.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the parameter is a logon time, an application launch time, or network latency.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein creating the composite score comprises assigning a score to the parameters associated with the EUE and aggregating those scores.
11. The system of claim 8, comprising a scoring rule updating module to update a scoring rule associated with the creation of the composite score descriptive of the EUE by: accessing any node resource utilization (RU) and user environment (UE) information associated with the information handling systems of the computing cluster; accessing any user-provided information associated with the EUE; calculating a Pearson Correlation Coefficient that correlates the user-provided information and the RU and UE information; and updating the scoring rule associated with creating a composite score and storing the updated scoring rule.
12. The system of claim 8, comprising a scoring rule updating module to update a scoring rule associated with the creation of the composite score descriptive of the EUE by updating a scoring rule associated with creating a composite score descriptive of the EUE; wherein the scoring rule is updated in series with the migration of the workload.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein migrating a workload associated with the VM among the computer cluster is based on resources within the VDI environment that, when the VM is migrated thereto, places the composite score below the threshold composite score.
14. The system of claim 8, comprising a virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) environment to receive input, from a user at a help desk, descriptive of issues associated with the use of the virtual machine.
15. A computer program product for migrating user workloads across a computer cluster, the computer program product comprising: a computer readable storage medium comprising computer usable program code embodied therewith, the computer usable program code to, when executed by a processor: detect a parameter associated with an end-user experience (EUE) during the emulation of a virtual machine (VM) operated within a virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) environment; create a composite score descriptive of the EUE; and migrate a workload associated with the VM among the computer cluster when a threshold composite score is reached.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the parameter is a logon time, an application launch time, or network latency and wherein the processor monitors the logon time, application launch time, or network latency associated with each EUE.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, where the emulation of the virtual machine is initiated by a thin client communicatively coupled to the VDI environment.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, comprising computer usable program code to assign a score to the parameters associated with the EUE and aggregating those scores when creating the composite score.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, comprising computer usable program code to update a scoring rule associated with the creation of the composite score descriptive of the EUE, the computer usable program code to, when executed by a processor: access any node resource utilization (RU) and user environment (UE) information associated with the emulation of the VM; access any user-provided information associated with the EUE; calculate a Pearson Correlation Coefficient that correlates the user-provided information and the RU and UE information; and update the scoring rule associated with creating a composite score and storing the updated scoring rule.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, comprising computer usable program code to, when executed by a processor, update s scoring rule associated with creating a composite score descriptive of the EUE, wherein the scoring rule is updated in series with the migration of the workload.
</claims>
</document>
