<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
D5AI
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAKER, JAMES, K.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65807592
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MIXTURE OF GENERATORS MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
Computer systems and computer-implemented methods train and/or operate, once trained, a machine-learning system that comprises a plurality of generator-detector pairs. The machine-learning computer system comprises a set of processor cores and computer memory that stores software. When executed by the set of processor cores, the software causes the set of processor cores to implement a plurality of generator-detector pairs, in which: (i) each generator-detector pair comprises a machine-learning data generator and a machine-learning data detector; and (ii) each generator-detector pair is for a corresponding cluster of data examples respectively, such that, for each generator-detector pair, the generator is for generating data examples in the corresponding cluster and the detector is for detecting whether data examples are within the corresponding cluster.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A machine-learning computer system comprising: a set of processor cores: and computer memory that stores software that, when executed by the set of processor cores, causes the set of processor cores to implement a plurality of generator-detector pairs, wherein: each generator-detector pair comprises a machine-learning data generator and a machine-learning data detector; each generator-detector pair is for a corresponding cluster of data examples respectively, such that, for each generator-detector pair, the generator is for generating data examples in the corresponding cluster and the detector is for detecting whether data examples are within the corresponding cluster.
2. The machine-learning computer system of claim 1, wherein, collectively, the plurality of generator-detector pairs are operable as a generator, as a cluster classifier, and as a category classifier.
3. The machine-learning computer system of claim 2, wherein, when operated as a generator, a generator of the plurality of generator-detector pairs outputs generated data examples corresponding to the cluster for the generator.
4. The machine-learning computer system of claim 2, wherein, when operated as a cluster classifier, the machine-learning system determines that a proper cluster for an input data example is the cluster corresponding to the detector of the plurality of generator-detector pairs with the with the greatest activation level for a detection.
5. The machine-learning computer system of claim 2, wherein, when operated as a category classifier, an output of the machine-learning system corresponds to a maximum activation level for a detection among the detectors of the plurality of generator-detector pairs.
6. The machine-learning computer system of claim 2, wherein: when operated as a generator, a generator of the plurality of generator-detector pairs outputs generated data examples corresponding to the cluster for the generator; when operated as a cluster classifier, the machine-learning system determines that a proper cluster for an input data example is the cluster corresponding to the detector of the plurality of generator-detector pairs with the with the greatest activation level for a detection; and when operated as a category classifier, an output of the machine-learning system corresponds to a maximum activation level for a detection among the detectors of the plurality of generator-detector pairs.
7. The machine-learning computer system of claim 1, wherein each generator of the plurality of generator-detector pairs comprises a generator type selected from the group consisting of an autoencoder, a variational autoencoder, a stochastic categorical autoencoder network, and a generative adversarial network.
8. The machine-learning computer system of claim 1, wherein: each generator comprises a neural network; and each detector comprises a neural network.
9. The machine-learning computer system of claim 8, wherein each of the generators and each of the detectors are trained by stochastic gradient descent.
10. A computer-implemented method comprising: training, by a computer system that comprises a set of processor cores, a plurality of generator-detector pairs of a machine-learning system such that: each generator-detector pair comprises a machine-learning data generator and a machine-learning data detector; and each generator-detector pair is for a corresponding cluster of data examples respectively, such that, in post-training operation, for each generator-detector pair, the generator is for generating data examples in the corresponding cluster and the detector is for detecting whether data examples are within the corresponding cluster.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein training the plurality of generator-detector pairs comprises, for each of the plurality of generator-detector pairs: with a plurality of data examples in the cluster corresponding to the generator-detector pair, initially training the generator without back-propagation from the detector; after initially training the generator: generating, by the generator, within-cluster input data examples that are within the cluster corresponding to the generator-detector pair; classifying, by the detector, the within-cluster input data examples generated by the generator; and secondarily training the generator with back-propagation from the detector; after training the generator with back-propagation from the detector, training the detector with within-cluster data examples and out-of-cluster data examples.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein training the plurality of generator-detector pairs comprises training the plurality of generator-detector pairs such that the machine learning system is operable as a generator, as a cluster classifier, and as a category classifier, wherein: when operated as a generator, a generator of the plurality of generator-detector pairs outputs generated data examples corresponding to the cluster for the generator; when operated as a cluster classifier, the machine-learning system determines that a proper cluster for an input data example is the cluster corresponding to the detector of the plurality of generator-detector pairs with the with the greatest activation level for a detection; and when operated as a category classifier, an output of the machine-learning system corresponds to a maximum activation level for a detection among the detectors of the plurality of generator-detector pairs.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein each generator of the plurality of generator-detector pairs comprises a generator type selected from the group consisting of an autoencoder, a variational autoencoder, a stochastic categorical autoencoder network, and a generative adversarial network.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein: each generator comprises a neural network; and each detector comprises a neural network.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein secondarily training the generator comprises secondarily training the generator by stochastic gradient descent.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein each generator of the plurality of generator-detector pairs comprises a generator type selected from the group consisting of an autoencoder, a variational autoencoder, a stochastic categorical autoencoder network, and a generative adversarial network.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein: each generator comprises a neural network; and each detector comprises a neural network.
</claims>
</document>
