<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N3/08,G06T5/00,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INSURANCE SERVICES OFFICE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOULT, TERRANCE, E.
SINGH, MANEESH KUMAR
Ghosh, Aurobrata
Veeravarasapu, Venkata Subbarao
Cruz, Steve
Zhong, Zheng
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74039358
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Machine Learning Systems and Methods for Improved Localization of Image Forgery
</title>

<abstract>
A system for improved localization of image forgery. The system generates a variational information bottleneck objective function and works with input image patches to implement an encoder-decoder architecture. The encoder-decoder architecture controls an information flow between the input image patches and a representation layer. The system utilizes information bottleneck to learn useful residual noise patterns and ignore semantic content present in each input image patch. The system trains a neural network to learn a representation indicative of a statistical fingerprint of a source camera model from each input image patch while excluding semantic content thereof. The system can determine a splicing manipulation localization by the trained neural network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A machine learning system for localizing image forgery comprising: a memory; and a processor in communication with the memory, the processor: generating a variational information bottleneck function, training a neural network with the variational information bottleneck function and a plurality of images of a dataset to learn a low level representation indicative of a statistical signature of a source camera model of each image among the plurality of images, and localizing a forgery within an image of the dataset using the trained neural network.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor: extracts at least one noise residual pattern from each image among the plurality of images, constructs the neural network based on the extracted at least one noise residual pattern to suppress semantic information from each image among the plurality of images, and trains the neural network by minimizing the variational information bottleneck function.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the processor determines a range of values of a regularization parameter of the variational information bottleneck function based on an RD curve, and determines a value of the regularization parameter based on the range.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor localizes the attribute of the image of the dataset by the trained neural network by: determining a low level representation for juxtaposed patches of the image based on the learned low level representation indicative of the statistical signature of the source camera model of the image, and segmenting the determined low level representations of the juxtaposed patches.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the neural network is a 27 layer encoder-decoder based Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) wherein each convolution is followed by batch normalization and a rectified linear unit (ReLU) activation.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the dataset is a Dresden Image dataset.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the localized adversarial perturbation of the image is at least one of a splicing or an inpainting manipulation.
8. A method for localizing image forgery by a machine learning system, comprising the steps of: generating a variational information bottleneck function, training a neural network with the variational information bottleneck function and a plurality of images of a dataset to learn a low level representation indicative of a statistical signature of a source camera model of each image among the plurality of images, and localizing a forgery within an image of the dataset using the trained neural network.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: extracting at least one noise residual pattern from each image among the plurality of images, constructing the neural network based on the extracted at least one noise residual pattern to suppress semantic information from each image among the plurality of images, and training the neural network by minimizing the variational information bottleneck function.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising determining a range of values of a regularization parameter of the variational information bottleneck function based on an RD curve, and determining a value of the regularization parameter based on the range.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising localizing the attribute of the image of the dataset by the trained neural network by determining a low level representation for juxtaposed patches of the image based on the learned low level representation indicative of the statistical signature of the source camera model of the image, and segmenting the determined low level representations of the juxtaposed patches.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the neural network is a 27 layer encoder-decoder based Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) wherein each convolution is followed by batch normalization and a rectified linear unit (ReLU) activation.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the localized adversarial perturbation of the image is at least one of a splicing or inpainting manipulation.
14. A non-transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon for localizing image forgery by a machine learning system which, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to carry out the steps of: generating a variational information bottleneck function, training a neural network with the variational information bottleneck function and a plurality of images of a dataset to learn a low level representation indicative of a statistical signature of a source camera model of each image among the plurality of images, and localizing a forgery within an image of the dataset using the trained neural network.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, the processor further carrying out the steps of: extracting at least one noise residual pattern from each image among the plurality of images, constructing the neural network based on the extracted at least one noise residual pattern to suppress semantic information from each image among the plurality of images, and training the neural network by minimizing the variational information bottleneck function.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, the processor further carrying out the steps of: determining a range of values of a regularization parameter of the variational information bottleneck function based on an RD curve, and determining a value of the regularization parameter based on the range.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, the processor localizing the attribute of the image of the dataset by the trained neural network by carrying out the steps of: determining a low level representation for juxtaposed patches of the image based on the learned low level representation indicative of the statistical signature of the source camera model of the image, and segmenting the determined low level representations of the juxtaposed patches.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the neural network is a 27 layer encoder-decoder based Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) wherein each convolution is followed by batch normalization and a rectified linear unit (ReLU) activation.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the localized adversarial perturbation of the image is at least one of a splicing or an inpainting manipulation.
</claims>
</document>
