<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61C13/00,A61C7/00,A61C9/00,G06T19/00,G06T19/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KHUSIAL, DARSHANAND
MARAJ, BALIRAM
</assignee>

<inventors>
KHUSIAL, DARSHANAND
MARAJ, BALIRAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61971689
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and Methods for Dental Treatment Utilizing Mixed Reality and Deep Learning
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems of the present disclosure are directed to providing dental treatment utilizing a mixed reality device. A patient's physical arch is scanned to produce a virtual arch that is then rendered in a computing environment for analysis and manipulation. Virtual targets, e.g., brackets, implants, etc., and/or a grid, are applied to the virtual arch to produce a virtual dental treatment template. The virtual dental treatment template is rendered in the mixed reality device and aligned the template with the physical arch of the patient in the mixed reality device. A practitioner is thus provided with this template and the patient within the same field of view, so that installation of dental apparatus can be simply a matter of aligning physical dental apparatus with the corresponding virtual dental apparatus. Positioning of the virtual target on the virtual arch and/or alignment of the virtual dental treatment template on the physical arch can be performed automatically via deep learning, Support Vector Machines, Decision Trees, etc. with the relevant data sets.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for providing dental treatment comprising: a mixed reality device; one or more scans of a target portion of a patient's physical arch; and a non-transitory computer storage media coupled with a computing device and encoded with one or more computer programs for producing a virtual dental treatment template and applying the virtual dental treatment template to the physical arch, the one or more computer programs including: software executing on a computer readable medium for scanning a physical arch to produce the one or more scans and a virtual arch; software executing on a computer readable medium for positioning a virtual target on the virtual arch to produce a virtual dental treatment template; software executing on a computer readable medium for rendering the virtual dental treatment template in the mixed reality device; software executing on a computer readable medium for identifying an alignment between the virtual dental treatment template and the physical arch in the mixed reality device; and software executing on a computer readable medium for maintaining the alignment between the virtual dental treatment template and the physical arch in the mixed reality device.
2. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: software executing on a computer readable medium for identifying an alignment between a physical dental apparatus and the virtual dental apparatus, wherein alignment is identified by a change in color of the virtual dental treatment template, by a haptic feedback to a practitioner, by an auditory feedback to a practitioner, by a visual feedback to a practitioner, or combinations thereof.
3. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: software executing on a computer readable medium for scanning a patient's face; and software executing on a computer readable medium for rendering the patient's face as it would appear after dental treatment is completed.
4. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: software executing on a computer readable medium for scanning a patient's face; and software executing on a computer readable medium for rendering the patient's face with the virtual dental apparatus on the computing device.
5. The system according to claim 1, wherein the virtual target is a virtual dental apparatus, a grid, or a combination thereof.
6. The system according to claim 5, wherein the virtual dental apparatus includes a bracket, implant, reconstructed tooth, replacement tooth, alveolar ridge augmentation, alignment tray, aesthetic restoration, or a combination thereof.
7. The system according to claim 6, wherein the software executing on a computer readable medium for positioning a virtual target on the virtual arch to produce a virtual dental treatment template further comprises: software executing on a computer readable medium for training the system with a movement training data set to identify expected translational, rotational, or tipping motion of a tooth associated with positioning of the virtual dental apparatus; and software executing on a computer readable medium for identifying a location on the virtual arch for a virtual dental apparatus to achieve a final position for the tooth.
8. The system according to claim 7, wherein the movement training data set includes separate data sets for arches, incisors, cuspids, bicuspids, and molars.
9. The system according to claim 1, further comprising a physical guide for positioning on the physical arch for aligning the virtual dental treatment template with the physical arch in the mixed reality device.
10. The system according to claim 1, wherein the software executing on a computer readable medium for identifying an alignment between the virtual dental treatment template and the physical arch in the mixed reality device further comprises: software executing on a computer readable medium for training the system with a landmarked training data set to identify a tooth, teeth, or arch outline; and software executing on a computer readable medium for identifying a corresponding tooth outline between the virtual dental treatment template and the physical arch.
11. The system according to claim 10, wherein the landmarked training data set includes separate landmarked training data sets for arches, incisors, cuspids, bicuspids, and molars.
12. The system according to claim 5, wherein the software executing on a computer readable medium for positioning a virtual target on the virtual arch to produce a virtual dental treatment template further comprises: software executing on a computer readable medium for applying a virtual wire through brackets on the virtual arch to confirm proper bracket positioning.
13. The system according to claim 1, wherein the software executing on a computer readable medium for positioning a virtual target on the virtual arch to produce a virtual dental treatment template further comprises: software executing on a computer readable medium for adjusting teeth in the virtual arch to a final position; software executing on a computer readable medium for estimating a location of the virtual target at the final position; and software executing on a computer readable medium for positioning the virtual target on the virtual arch at the location.
14. The system according to claim 13, further comprising software executing on a computer readable medium for manually adjusting the location of the virtual target.
15. A method for providing dental treatment comprising: scanning a physical arch to produce a virtual arch; positioning a virtual target on the virtual arch to produce a virtual dental treatment template; rendering the virtual dental treatment template in a mixed reality device; identifying an alignment between the virtual dental treatment template and the physical arch in the mixed reality device; and maintaining the alignment between the virtual dental treatment template and the physical arch in the mixed reality device.
16. The method according to claim 15, further comprising identifying an alignment between a physical dental apparatus and the virtual dental apparatus.
17. The method according to claim 15, further comprising manipulating a field of view of the mixed reality device, the field of view including at least a portion of the virtual dental treatment template aligned with the physical arch.
18. The method according to claim 15, wherein the virtual dental treatment template is rendered translucent.
19. A system for providing dental treatment comprising: a mixed reality device; a scanning device; and a non-transitory computer storage media coupled with a computing device and encoded with one or more computer programs for rendering dental treatment in the mixed reality device, the one or more computer programs including: software executing on a computer readable medium for scanning a physical arch with the scanning device to produce a virtual arch; software executing on a computer readable medium for scanning a patient's face; and software executing on a computer readable medium for rendering the patient's face as it would appear after dental treatment is completed.
20. The system according to claim 19, further comprising: software executing on a computer readable medium for positioning a virtual target on the virtual arch to produce a virtual dental treatment template; software executing on a computer readable medium for rendering the virtual dental treatment template in the mixed reality device; software executing on a computer readable medium for identifying an alignment between the virtual dental treatment template and the physical arch in the mixed reality device; software executing on a computer readable medium for maintaining the alignment between the virtual dental treatment template and the physical arch in the mixed reality device; and software executing on a computer readable medium for rendering a patient's face with the virtual dental apparatus on the computing device.
</claims>
</document>
