<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/435,H04N21/218,H04N21/236,H04N21/2387
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TENCENT TECHNOLOGY (SHENZHEN) COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
QIN, ZHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63624988
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROCESSING MULTIMEDIA FILE, STORAGE MEDIUM, AND ELECTRONIC APPARATUS
</title>

<abstract>
A method for processing a multimedia file is described. The method includes obtaining a source slice media file included in a source multimedia file, and obtaining, by processing circuitry of a transcoding device, a slice pre-processing result corresponding to the source slice media file, the slice pre-processing result indicating a storage address of an image area processing result of the source slice media file, in a pre-processing device. The method also includes obtaining, by the processing circuitry of the nanscoding device, the image area processing result of the source slice media file from the storage address. Finally, the method includes processing, by the processing circuitry of the transcoding device, the source slice media file according to the image area processing result, to obtain a processed target slice media file.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for processing a multimedia file, comprising: obtaining processing circuitry of a source slice media file included in a source multimedia file; obtaining, by the processing circuitry of a transcoding device, a slice pre-processing result corresponding to the source slice media file, the slice pre-processing result indicating a storage address of an image area processing result corresponding to the source slice media file, in a pre-processing device; obtaining, by the processing circuitry of the transcoding device, the image area processing result corresponding to the source slice media file from the storage address; and processing, by the processing circuitry of the transcoding device, the source slice media file according to the image area processing result, to obtain a processed target slice media file.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein before the obtaining the source slice media file included in the source multimedia file, the method further comprises: transmitting, by a control device, a slice pre-processing task corresponding to the source slice media file to the pre-processing device, so that the pre-processing device performs key area recognition on at least one frame image of the source slice media rile according to the slice pre-processing task, and stores the image area processing result obtained through the key area recognition.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein, before the transmitting, the method further comprises: determining, by the control device, the pre-processing device corresponding to the source slice media file from a pre-processing device cluster, a ratio of a quantity of source slice media files in the source multimedia file to a quantity of pre-processing devices in the pre-processing device cluster being N:M, N being a natural number greater than 1, and M being a natural number greater than 1.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the processing comprises: obtaining, by the processing circuitry of the transcoding device, a key area in a frame image included in the source slice media file according to the image area processing result; and performing, by the processing circuitry of the transcoding device, a first operation on the key area, and performing a second operation on areas of the frame image other than the key area, the first operation and the second operation being different operations.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the performing, by the processing circuitry of the transcoding device, the first operation on the key area, and the performing the second operation on areas of the frame image other than the key area comprises: performing, by the processing circuitry of the transcoding device, an encoding processing operation on the key area according to a first bit rate.; and performing, by the processing circuitry of the transcoding device, the encoding processing operation on the areas of the frame image other than the key area according to a second bit rate, the first bit rate being greater than the second bit rate.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein, after the processing, the method further comprises' combining, by the processing circuitry of the transcoding device, target slice media files respectively corresponding to source slice media files included in the source multimedia file, to obtain a target multimedia file corresponding to the source multimedia file; and transmitting the target multimedia file to a playing client for playing.
7. The method according to claim 3, wherein the obtaining the image processing result includes obtaining plural image processing results corresponding to plural source slice media files of the source multimedia file respectively from different pre-processing devices of the pre-processing device cluster, the different pre-processing devices outputting the plural image processing results in parallel.
8. A method for processing a multimedia file, comprising: obtaining processing circuitry of a source slice media file included in a source multimedia file; obtaining the processing circuitry of a slice pre-processing task corresponding to the source slice media file; obtaining, by processing circuitry of a pre-processing device, an image area processing result corresponding to the source slice media file according to the slice pre-processing task; and transmitting the image area processing result to a transcoding device, so that the transcoding device processes the source slice, media file according to the image area processing result, to obtain a processed target slice media file.
9. The method according to claim 8. wherein the obtaining, by the processing circuitry of the pre-processing device, the image area processing result corresponding to the source slice media file according to the slice pre-processing task comprises: performing, by the processing circuitry of the pre-processing device, key area recognition on a frame image included in the source slice media file according to the slice pre-processing task; and storing the image area processing result obtained through the key area recognition.
10. The method according to claim 8, wherein the transmitting comprises: obtaining an obtaining request transmitted by the transcoding device, the obtaining request carrying a storage address used for indicating the image area processing result, and storing, by processing circuitry of the pre-processing device, the image area processing result in the storage address.
11. The method according to claim 8, wherein, before the obtaining the source slice media file in the source multimedia file, the method further comprises: determining, by a control device, the pre-processing device corresponding to the source slice media file from a pre-processing device cluster, a ratio of a quantity of source slice media files in the source multimedia file to a quantity of pre-processing devices in the pre-processing device cluster being N:M, N being a natural number greater than 1, and M being a natural number greater than 1.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the ratio of N to M is equal to or greater than 1.
13. An apparatus for processing a multimedia file, comprising: processing circuitry configured to obtain a source slice media file in a source multimedia file; obtain a slice pre-processing result corresponding to the source slice media file, the slice pre-processing result indicating a storage address of an image area processing result corresponding to the source slice media file, in a pre-processing device,: obtain the image area processing result corresponding to the source slice media file from the storage address; and process the source slice media file according to the image area processing result to obtain a processed target slice media file,
14. The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the image area processing result is obtained by a pre-processing device performing key area recognition on at least one frame image of the source slice media file.
15. The apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the pre-processing device is selected from a pre-processing device cluster, a ratio of a quantity of source slice media files in the source multimedia file to a quantity of pre-processing devices in the pre-processing device cluster being N:M, N being a natural number greater than 1, and M being a natural number greater than 1.
16. The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to obtain plural image processing results corresponding to plural source slice media files of the source multimedia file respectively from different pre-processing devices of the pre-processing device cluster, the different pre-processing devices outputting the plural image processing results in parallel.
17. The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the processing circuitry processes the source slice media file by obtaining a key area in a frame image included in the source slice media file according to the image area processing result: and performing a first operation on the key area, and performing a second operation on areas of the frame image other titan the key area, the first operation and the second operation being different operations.
18. The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the processing circuitry performs the first operation on the key area, and performs the second operation on areas of the frame image other than the key area by performing an encoding processing operation on the key area according to a first bit rate; and performing the encoding processing operation on the areas of the frame image oilier than the key area according to a second bit rate. the first bit rate being greater than the second bit rate.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, storing computer-readable instructions, which, when executed by processing circuitry of a transcoding device, causes the transcoding device to perform the method according to claim 1.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, storing computer-readable instructions, which, when executed by processing circuitry of a pre-processing device, causes the pre-processing device to perform the method according to claim 8.
</claims>
</document>
