<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B01D27/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BESTWAY INFLATABLES & MATERIAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUANG, SHUIYONG
CHEN, XIAOBO
WAN, CHANGDE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67747333
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FILTERING DEVICE AND CONTROL SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A filtering device includes a water pump, a filter cartridge, and a communicating tube for coupling the water pump with the filter cartridge. The filtering device further includes a flow switch attached to the communicating tube and configured to change switching states in response to a water flow rate in the communicating tube being lower than a predetermined value. The filtering device further includes a reminding device operably connected to the water flow switch. The reminding device generates a reminder signal when the state of the water flow indicates that the flow rate of the water in the communicating tube is lower than the predetermined value. The control system includes a control panel for the filtering pump, a central control system, and a filtration detecting system. The control panel is connected to the central control system and the central control system is connected to the filtration detecting system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A filtering device, comprising: a water pump; a filter cartridge; a communicating tube configured to provide fluid communication between the water pump and the filter cartridge; and a flow switch attached to the communicating tube and configured to detect a fluid flow rate in the communicating tube being less than a predetermined value indicative of a service condition for the filter cartridge.
2. The filtering device of claim 1, further comprising a reminding device operatively coupled to the flow switch, wherein the reminding device is configured to indicate the fluid flow rate in the communicating tube being less than the predetermined value.
3. The filtering device of claim 2, wherein the reminding device comprises a display device, a sound generating device or a communication module.
4. The filtering device of claim 2, wherein the reminding device comprises a display device configured to generate a visual indication in response to the fluid flow rate in the communicating tube being less than the predetermined value.
5. The filtering device of claim 2, wherein the reminding device comprises a sound generating device configured to generate an audible alert in response to the fluid flow rate in the communicating tube being less than the predetermined value.
6. The filtering device of claim 2, wherein the reminding device comprises a communication module configured to transmit an alert to a remote receiver in response to the fluid flow rate in the communicating tube being less than the predetermined value.
7. The filtering device of claim 1, wherein the flow switch is configured to be in an open state in response to the fluid flow rate in the communicating tube being lower than the predetermined value.
8. The filtering device of claim 1, wherein the flow switch comprises: a housing disposed on a wall of the communicating tube; a pivot arm connected to the housing and being pivotable between the communicating tube and the housing; a magnetic block disposed at an end of the pivot arm; and a reed switch disposed inside of the housing; wherein the pivot arm is biased toward the reed switch by the fluid flow rate in the communicating tube; and wherein the pivot arm and the magnetic block are pivoted away from the reed switch when the fluid flow rate in the communicating tube drops below the predetermined value, thereby causing the reed switch to change from one state to a different state.
9. The filtering device of claim 1, wherein the water pump employs a DC brushless motor.
10. The filtering device of claim 1, further comprising: a first sealing ring for sealing between the communicating tube and the water pump; and a second sealing ring for sealing between the communicating tube and the filter cartridge.
11. The filtering device of claim 1, wherein the filtering device further comprises a base defining a recess, and the water pump and the filter cartridge are mounted in the recess of the base.
12. The filtering device according to claim 11, wherein the filtering device further comprises a cover disposed on the base and enclosing the water pump.
13. The filtering device of claim 1, wherein the filtering device further comprises a water inlet connected to the water pump and a water outlet connected to the filter cartridge; and wherein the filtering device is configured to provide a fluid flow from the water inlet through the water pump, the filter cartridge, and then the water outlet.
14. The filtering device of claim 13, wherein the water inlet and the water outlet are each adapted to be connected to a pool body of a swimming pool.
15. A control system for the filtering device according to claim 1, the control system comprising: a control panel for the filtering device; a central control system; and a filtration detecting system; wherein the control panel for the filtering device is electrically connected to the central control system and adapted to control the central control system; wherein the central control system is electrically connected to the filtration detecting system and adapted to control the filtration detecting system; and wherein the filtration detecting system causes a reminding device to generate a first reminder signal in response to the flow switch detecting the fluid flow rate in the communicating tube being less than the predetermined value.
16. The control system of claim 15, wherein the control system further comprises an air discharge detecting system and a dry-run detecting system; wherein the central control system is electrically connected to the air discharge detecting system and the dry-run detecting system, and the central control system is adapted to control the air discharge detecting system and the dry-run detecting system; and wherein the dry-run detecting system causes the reminding device to generate a second reminder signal in response to an operating current of the water pump being less than a first predetermined current for a predetermined duration of time, and with the air discharge detecting system determining that an air discharge valve is open.
17. The control system of claim 16, wherein the dry-run detecting system causes the reminding device to generate the second reminder signal in response to the operating current of the water pump being less than 0.5 amperes for a duration of 1 minute, and with the air discharge detecting system determining that the air discharge valve is open.
18. The control system of claim 15, further comprising a remote control system configured to remotely control the central control system.
19. The control system of claim 15, further comprising a locked-rotor detecting system; wherein the central control system is electrically connected to the locked-rotor detecting system and adapted to control the locked-rotor detecting system; wherein the locked-rotor detecting system causes the reminding device to generate a third reminder signal in response to the operating current of the water pump being greater than a second predetermined current.
20. The control system of claim 19, wherein the locked-rotor detecting system causes the reminding device to generate the third reminder signal in response to the operating current of the water pump being greater than 2 amperes.
</claims>
</document>
