<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-09-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F16/245,G06F16/2455,G06F16/2457
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QLIKTECH INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRANCH, CHRIS
Eaves, Alistair
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51589329
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and Systems for Data Management and Analysis
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are methods comprising receiving a query for information from the database, determining particular data element types and data element values that are the subject of the query, instantiating a query data structure containing the data element types and the data element values that are the subject of the query, identifying records within the database that contain one or more data element types and/or data element values that are included in the query data structure, and instantiating a results data structure comprising information relating to the identified records.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving a search query comprising at least two search terms from corresponding data element types; identifying, in a database, unique data element types; generating a plurality of initial data structures corresponding to the unique data element types, wherein the plurality of initial data structures comprise unique data elements associated with the corresponding unique data element type, wherein the plurality of initial data structures comprise a plurality of values, and wherein a number of digits of each of the plurality of values is based on a number of the data element types corresponding to the at least two search terms of the search query; generating a final data structure based on the plurality of initial data structures, wherein the final data structure comprises a non-redundant selection of records from the database; and providing search results relevant to the search query based on the final data structure.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the final data structure based on the plurality of initial data structures comprises generating binary codes for corresponding unique data elements.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the final data structure comprises resolving at least one of data element dependency or data element redundancy between the plurality of initial data structures.
4. A method comprising: receiving a query for information from a database; identifying data element types relevant to the query and data element values relevant to the query, wherein each of the identified data element types corresponds to a respective plurality of unique data element values, and wherein the identified data element values relevant to the query are included in the respective plurality of unique data element values; generating a query structure based on the identified data element types and data element values, wherein the query structure comprise a plurality of values, and wherein each of the values comprises a number of digits based on a number of the identified data element types relevant to the query, and wherein each of the values represents one of the identified data element values relevant to the query; identifying a data structure relevant to the query structure, wherein the data structure comprises non-redundant data element values from the database; identifying records in the data structure based on the query structure; and providing the records in response to the query for information.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein identifying the data structure relevant to the query structure comprises identifying a data structure comprising a greatest number of identified data element types relevant to the query.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein identifying records in the data structure based on the query structure comprises identifying records associated with at least one of the data element types relevant to the query or the data element values relevant to the query.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein providing the records in response to the query comprises displaying at least one of unique data element types, unique data element values, or a count of the number the unique data element values.
8. The method of claim 4, wherein providing the records in response to the query comprises displaying data elements of the records according to degrees of relevance, and wherein different degrees of relevance are represented by different color shades.
9. The method of claim 4, wherein receiving a query for information from the database comprises receiving the query as a free-form search, and wherein identifying records in the data structure comprises generating a status vector based on the free-form search.
10. The method of claim 4, wherein receiving a query for information from the database comprises receiving a weight value for at least one corresponding data element type, and wherein providing the records in response to the query is based on the weight value.
11. An apparatus comprising: one or more processors, and memory storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to: receive a query for information from a database, identify data element types relevant to the query and data element values relevant to the query, wherein each of the identified data element types corresponds to a respective plurality of unique data element values, and wherein the identified data element values relevant to the query are included in the respective plurality of unique data element values, generate a query structure based on the identified data element types and data element values, wherein the query structure comprise a plurality of values, and wherein each of the values comprises a number of digits based on a number of the identified data element types relevant to the query, and wherein each of the values represents one of the identified data element values relevant to the query, identify a data structure relevant to the query structure, wherein the data structure comprises non-redundant data element values from the database, identify records in the data structure based on the query structure, and provide the records in response to the query for information.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor-executable instructions that cause the apparatus to identify the data structure relevant to the query structure further cause the apparatus to identify a data structure comprising a greatest number of identified data element types relevant to the query.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor-executable instructions that cause the apparatus to identify records in the data structure based on the query structure further cause the apparatus to identify records associated with at least one of the data element types relevant to the query or the data element values relevant to the query.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor-executable instructions that cause the apparatus to provide the records in response to the query further cause the apparatus to display at least one of unique data element types or unique data element values.
15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor-executable instructions that cause the apparatus to provide the records in response to the query further cause the apparatus to display a count of the number the unique data element values.
16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor-executable instructions that cause the apparatus to provide the records in response to the query further cause the apparatus to display data elements of the records according to degrees of relevance.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein different degrees of relevance are represented by different color shades.
18. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor-executable instructions that cause the apparatus to receive a query for information from the database further cause the apparatus to receive the query as a free-form search.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the processor-executable instructions that cause the apparatus to identify records in the data structure further cause the apparatus to generate a status vector.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the status vector is based on the free-form search.
</claims>
</document>
