<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/02,G06Q20/38,G06Q20/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
JONES-MCFADDEN, ALICIA C.
DINTENFASS, KATHERINE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74038736
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRE-AUTHORIZED SECURE RESOURCE ALLOCATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
An interaction and resource exchange system that provides authentication for a designated user to complete an interaction entered into by an initiating user. An initiating user is able to enter into interactions with third-parties and set one or more interaction limits and/or designated user requirements to allow a designated user to complete the interaction with the third-party should interaction limits and/or designated user requirements be met. The interaction limits and/or the designated user requirements allow for improved security related to these types of interactions and resource exchanges. In particular, the interaction and resource exchange may be implemented through a real-time resource exchange network that efficiently allows for the designated user to complete the interaction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A resource interaction and exchange system, the system comprising: one or more memory components having computer readable code stored thereon; and one or more processing components operatively coupled to the one or more memory components, wherein the one or more processing components are configured to execute the computer readable code to: identify an interaction between an initiating user and a third-party; identify a designated user is completing the interaction with the third-party; verify one or more interaction limits for the interaction; verify one or more designed user requirements for the interaction for the designated user; allow the interaction when the one or more interaction limits and the one or more designated user requirements are met; deny the interaction when at least one of the one or more interaction limits or the one or more designated user requirements fail to be met; and reconcile the interaction when the interaction is allowed by transferring resources of the initiating user to the third-party.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processing components are configured to execute the computer readable code to: receive the one or more designated user requirements from the initiating user.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein verifying the one or more designated user requirements for the interaction comprises: sending the one or more designated user requirements to a third-party system; receiving verification from the third-party system when the designated user completing the interaction has met the one or more designated user requirements.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein verifying the one or more designated user requirements for the interaction comprises: sending the one or more designated user requirements to a designated user computer system; receiving verification from a third-party system when the designated user completing the interaction has met the one or more designated user requirements.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more designated user requirements comprise a designated user identifier comprising one or more of a designed user name, address, photograph, a mobile phone number, location determination device indicator, digital wallet number, or a tokenized interaction string.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processing components are configured to execute the computer readable code to: send an interaction notification to an initiating user computer system; and receive an interaction verification from the initiating user computer system indicating that the interaction is approved.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the interaction notification comprises a project photograph illustrating completion of at least a portion of the product.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processing components are configured to execute the computer readable code to: receive the one or more interaction limits from the initiating user.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein verifying the one or more interaction limits for the interaction comprises: sending the one or more interaction limits to a third-party system; and receiving verification from the third-party system when the designated user completing the interaction has met the one or more interaction limits.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein verifying the one or more interaction limits for the interaction comprises: sending the one or more interaction limits to a designated user computer system; and receiving verification from the third-party system when the designated user completing the interaction has met the one or more interaction limits.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more interaction limits comprise a resource amount, an interaction completion time, one or more specific products.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processing components are configured to execute the computer readable code to: provide the one or more interaction limits or the one or more designated user requirements to the third-party system through a designed user computer system.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein identifying the interaction between the initiating user and the third-party comprises: receiving an indication from the initiating user regarding the interaction with the third-party.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein identifying the designated user completing the interaction with the third-party comprises receiving an identity of the designated user from the initiating user computer system.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the identity of the designated user is based on a mobile device number, a digital wallet identification, a designated user identifier, a designated user photograph, a designated user photograph ID.
16. A computer implemented method for a resource interaction and exchange system, the method comprising: identifying, by one or more processing components, an interaction between an initiating user and a third-party; identifying, by the one or more processing components, a designated user is completing the interaction with the third-party; verifying, by the one or more processing components, one or more interaction limits for the interaction; verifying, by the one or more processing components, one or more designed user requirements for the interaction for the designated user; allowing, by the one or more processing components, the interaction when the one or more interaction limits and the one or more designated user requirements are met; denying, by the one or more processing components, the interaction when at least one of the one or more interaction limits or the one or more designated user requirements fail to be met; and reconciling, by the one or more processing components, the interaction when the interaction is allowed by transferring resources of the initiating user to the third-party.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein verifying the one or more designated user requirements comprises sending the one or more designated user requirements to a third-party system or to a designated user computer system; and receiving verification from the third-party system when the designated user completing the interaction has met the one or more designated user requirements.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein verifying the one or more interaction limits for the interaction comprises: sending the one or more interaction limits to a third-party system or to a designated user computer system; and receiving verification from the third-party system when the designated user completing the interaction has met the one or more interaction limits.
19. The method of claim 16, further comprising sending an interaction notification to an initiating user computer system; and receiving an interaction verification from the initiating user computer system that the interaction is approved.
20. A computer program product for a resource interaction and exchange system, the computer program product comprising at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium having computer-readable program code portions embodied therein, the computer-readable program code portions comprising: an executable portion configured to identify an interaction between an initiating user and a third-party; an executable portion configured to identify a designated user is completing the interaction with the third-party; an executable portion configured to verify one or more interaction limits for the interaction; an executable portion configured to verify one or more designed user requirements for the interaction for the designated user; an executable portion configured to allow the interaction when the one or more interaction limits and the one or more designated user requirements are met; an executable portion configured to deny the interaction when at least one of the one or more interaction limits or the one or more designated user requirements fail to be met; and an executable portion configured to reconcile the interaction when the interaction is allowed by transferring resources of the initiating user to the third-party.
</claims>
</document>
