<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/435,G06F21/10,H04L29/06,H04N7/15
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHMUEL UR INNOVATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
UR, SHMUEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73653579
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DIGITAL MEDIA VERIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
Method, system and computer program product, the method comprising: during a streaming session of a media by a capturing device to the processing platform, transmitting to the capturing device an instruction to implement an operation mode when capturing a second portion of the media; receiving from the capturing device the media, wherein the media comprises at least a first portion and the second portion; and verifying authenticity of the media, wherein said verifying is based on a determination that the second portion of the media complies with the operation mode.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by a processing platform, wherein the method comprising: during a streaming session of a media by a capturing device to the processing platform, transmitting to the capturing device an instruction to implement an operation mode when capturing a second portion of the media; receiving from the capturing device the media, wherein the media comprises at least a first portion and the second portion; and verifying authenticity of the media, wherein said verifying is based on a determination that the second portion of the media complies with the operation mode, wherein the authenticity of the media is verified subject to at most a predetermined number of frames or samples of the second portion being missing or incompliant with the operation mode.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said verifying comprises verifying that the second portion of the media is streamed to the processing platform within a time threshold from a time in which the instruction is transmitted to the capturing device.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the media is selected from at least one of: a video data and an audio data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the operation mode comprises a capturing parameter of the capturing device, wherein the capturing parameter affects a manner in which the capturing device captures the media.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the capturing parameter is at least one of: a resolution level, a frame rate, a light sensitivity, and a microphone capturing parameter.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the operation mode comprises an indication of operating an actuator to cause an effect that is capturable by the capturing device.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the actuator is operatively coupled to the capturing device.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the instruction is at least one of: an instruction to activate a flashlight; an instruction to cause emission of directional light; an instruction to cause emission of light in a predetermined light spectrum; an instruction to generate an audio signal via a speaker; and an instruction to activate a vibration motor.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein implementing the instruction is unnoticeable by a human.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the audio signal comprises frequencies undetectable by a human ear.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprises, in response to said verifying, providing to a third-party that is receiving the media during the streaming session, an indication of authenticity of the media.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprises: obtaining a first media fingerprint that is computed based on the media; in response to said verifying, storing the first media fingerprint of the media in a verified media database; and verifying authenticity of a second media that is characterized by a second media fingerprint, wherein said verifying is performed based on a determination that the second media fingerprint is included in the verified media database.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprises the processing platform computing the second media fingerprint based on the second media.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprises the processing platform receiving the second media fingerprint from a querying device.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the media comprises a plurality of portions, each of which corresponds to an operation mode consistent with a different instruction, wherein the plurality of portions comprises the second portion.
16. (canceled)
17. A method performed by a processing platform, wherein the method comprising: during a streaming session of a media by a capturing device to the processing platform, transmitting to the capturing device an instruction to implement an operation mode when capturing a second portion of the media; receiving from the capturing device the media, wherein the media comprises at least a first portion and the second portion; and verifying authenticity of the media, wherein said verifying is based on a determination that the second portion of the media complies with the operation mode, wherein the authenticity of the media is verified subject to frames of the second portion that are incompliant with the operation mode, are captured at the latest at a predetermined period after a time in which the instruction is transmitted to the capturing device.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing platform is a server.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing platform is implemented on a second capture device, wherein the capture device and the second capture device are used in a peer-to-peer video conference.
20. (canceled)
21. A system having a processor and a memory, the processor being adapted to perform the steps of: during a streaming session of a media by a capturing device to the processing platform, transmitting to the capturing device an instruction to implement an operation mode when capturing a second portion of the media; receiving from the capturing device the media, wherein the media comprises at least a first portion and the second portion; and verifying authenticity of the media, wherein said verifying is based on a determination that the second portion of the media complies with the operation mode, wherein the authenticity of the media is verified subject to at least one of: frames of the second portion that are incompliant with the operation mode, are captured at the latest at a predetermined period after a time in which the instruction is transmitted to the capturing device; and at most a predetermined number of frames or samples of the second portion being missing or incompliant with the operation mode.
22. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable medium retaining program instructions, which instructions when read by a processor, cause the processor to perform: during a streaming session of a media by a capturing device to the processing platform, transmitting to the capturing device an instruction to implement an operation mode when capturing a second portion of the media; receiving from the capturing device the media, wherein the media comprises at least a first portion and the second portion; and verifying authenticity of the media, wherein said verifying is based on a determination that the second portion of the media complies with the operation mode, wherein the authenticity of the media is verified subject to at least one of: frames of the second portion that are incompliant with the operation mode, are captured at the latest at a predetermined period after a time in which the instruction is transmitted to the capturing device; and at most a predetermined number of frames or samples of the second portion being missing or incompliant with the operation mode.
</claims>
</document>
