<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04M3/46,H04W68/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
HASSAN, AMER AREF
SEKARAN, MAHENDRA D.
DAVIS, MICHAEL J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68610348
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEQUENCED DEVICE ALERTING
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed in some examples are methods, systems, and machine-readable mediums that assign a same identifier to a plurality of a user's communication devices. A communication server alerts only one device of the plurality of communication devices at a time in response to a communication establishment request from a calling communication device directed to the identifier. If the user fails to answer the alert, another device is chosen and alerted according to a particular sequence of devices until the user either answers or until all devices (or a determined subset of devices) have been tried. In some examples, the communication devices are reachable by the communication service via an alternative address known to the communication server, such as an Internet Protocol (IP) address.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for sequential alerting of computing devices, the method comprising: receiving a communication establishment request directed to an identifier, the identifier corresponding to a user account; identifying a set of two or more computing devices associated with the user account; selecting a first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon past device answer history of a user of the user account; causing the first selected device to alert the user to the communication establishment request, wherein the devices in the set of two or more computing devices other than the first selected device are not caused to alert; after waiting a first delay period without receiving an indication from the first selected device that the user answered the communication establishment request: causing the first selected device to cease alerting the user; and causing a second device from the set of two or more computing devices to alert the user to the communication establishment request.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon past device answer history comprises selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon a machine-learned model trained with past device answer history and corresponding schedule data, and wherein the method further comprises: determining a current schedule of the user by communicating with a calendar service of the user; and. determining, by inputting the current schedule to the model, that the first device is most likely to be answered.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon past device answer history comprises selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon a machine-learned model trained with past device answer history and corresponding email data, and wherein the method further comprises: determining current email data of the user by communicating with email service of the user; and determining, by inputting the current email data of the user to the model, that the first device is most likely to be answered.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon past device answer history comprises selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices that is most frequently used at a current location of the user.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein causing the first selected device to alert the user comprises causing the first selected device to alert the user using a first alert schema, the first alert schema specifying the first delay period, and wherein causing the second device to alert the user comprises causing the second device to alert the user using a second alert schema, the first and second alert schemas specifying different alert types.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the first alert schema specifies an auditory alert and the second alert schema specifies a non-auditory alert or the first alert schema specifies a non-auditory alert and the second alert schema comprises an auditory alert.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifier is assigned to each device in the set of two or more computing devices.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: responsive to waiting the first delay period without receiving the indication from the first selected device that the user answered the communication establishment request, selecting the second device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon past device answer history.
9. A computing system for sequential alerting of computing devices, the computing system comprising: a processor; a memory coupled to the processor and including instructions, which when executed by the processor, causes the computing system to perform operations comprising: receiving a communication establishment request directed to an identifier, the identifier corresponding to a user account; identifying a set of two or more computing devices associated with the user account; selecting a first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon past device answer history of a user of the user account; causing the first selected device to alert the user to the communication establishment request, wherein the devices in the set of two or more computing devices other than the first selected device are not caused to alert; after waiting a first delay period without receiving an indication from the first selected device that the user answered the communication establishment request: causing the first selected device to cease alerting the user; and causing a second device from the set of two or more computing devices to alert the user to the communication establishment request.
10. The computing system of claim 9, wherein the operations of selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon past device answer history comprises selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon a machine-learned model trained with past device answer history and corresponding schedule data, and wherein the operations further comprise: determining a current schedule of the user by communicating with a calendar service of the user; and determining, by inputting the current schedule to the model, that the first device is most likely to be answered.
11. The computing system of claim 9, wherein the operations of selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon past device answer history comprises selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon a machine-learned model trained with past device answer history and corresponding email data, and wherein the operations further comprise: determining current email data of the user by communicating with email service of the user; and determining, by inputting the current email data of the user to the model, that the first device is most likely to be answered.
12. The computing system of claim 9, wherein the operations of selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon past device answer history comprises selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices that is most frequently used at a current location of the user.
13. The computing system of claim 9, wherein the operations of causing the first selected device to alert the user comprises causing the first selected device to alert the user using a first alert schema, the first alert schema specifying the first delay period, and wherein the operations of causing the second device to alert the user comprises causing the second device to alert the user using a second alert schema, the first and second alert schemas specifying different alert types.
14. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the first alert schema specifies an auditory alert and the second alert schema specifies a non-auditory alert or the first alert schema specifies a non-auditory alert and the second alert schema comprises an auditory alert.
15. The computing system of claim 9, wherein the identifier is assigned to each device in the set of two or more computing devices.
16. The computing system of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: responsive to waiting the first delay period without receiving the indication from the first selected device that the user answered the communication establishment request, selecting the second device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon past device answer history.
17. A device for providing sequential alerting of computing devices, the device comprising: means for receiving a communication establishment request directed to an identifier, the identifier corresponding to a user account; means for identifying a set of two or more computing devices associated with the user account; means for selecting a first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon past device answer history of a user of the user account; means for causing the first selected device to alert the user to the communication establishment request, wherein the devices in the set of two or more computing devices other than the first selected device are not caused to alert; after waiting a first delay period without receiving an indication from the first selected device that the user answered the communication establishment request: means for causing the first selected device to cease alerting the user; and means for causing a second device from the set of two or more computing devices to alert the user to the communication establishment request.
18. The device of claim 17, wherein the means for selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon past device answer history comprises means for selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon a machine-learned model trained with past device answer history and corresponding schedule data, and wherein the device further comprises: means for determining a current schedule of the user by communicating with a calendar service of the user; and means for determining, by inputting the current schedule to the model, that the first device is most likely to be answered.
19. The device of claim 17, wherein the means for selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon past device answer history comprises means for selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon a machine-learned model trained with past device answer history and corresponding email data, and wherein the device further comprises: means for determining current email data of the user by communicating with email service of the user; and means for determining, by inputting the current email data of the user o the model, that the first device is most likely to be answered.
20. The device of claim 17, wherein the means for selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices based upon past device answer history comprises means for selecting the first device from the set of two or more computing devices that is most frequently used at a current location of the user.
</claims>
</document>
