<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/32,G06T7/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SCYLLA TECHNOLOGIES INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Stepanyan, Albert
Ghazaryan, Ara
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72832527
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VIOLENCE DETECTION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are technologies for using computer vision for detection of violence, foreseeable, or imminent violence. The technologies can include a real-time human behavior detection system combined with object classification, which is to be used as an intelligent augmentation of security surveillance systems. The technologies can be used with security cameras, surveillance systems or unmanned aerial vehicles. The technologies can use various types of machine learning to enhance the technologies' violence detection. Also, the technologies can use a synergistic approach of combining different computer vision and machine learning technologies to provide highly accurate results.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: weapon detection circuitry, configured to: identify, in contents of video data, an object that appears to be a weapon using a computer vision system; compare the object to a predetermined weapon stored in a database by inputting data related to the object into an artificial neural network (ANN) that was trained by data related to the predetermined weapon; generate a weapon probability according to the comparison; and communicate, to decision circuitry, the generated weapon probability; and the decision circuitry, configured to: receive, from the weapon detection circuitry, an input comprising the generated weapon probability; determine a violence detection probability according to the input from the weapon detection circuitry; and communicate, to alert circuitry, the violence detection probability to trigger an alert.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising alert circuitry, configured to: receive, from the decision circuitry, the violence detection probability; compare the violence detection probability to a threshold; and trigger an alerting action according to the comparison between the violence detection probability and the threshold.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the alert circuitry is configured to communicate an alert notification to an alerting server, which is a part of the alerting action, and wherein the system further comprises the alerting server which is configured to communicate, to a plurality of client devices, the alert notification or a derivative thereof.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a video camera configured to record video data and communicate the video data to the weapon detection circuitry.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein, with the generation of the weapon probability, the weapon detection circuitry is configured to: repeatedly zoom in on the object that appears to be a weapon and analyze the zoomed-in object to determine a confidence level that the object is a weapon or not a weapon; and generate the weapon probability according to the confidence level upon the confidence level exceeding a confidence threshold.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein, with the zooming in on the object, the weapon detection circuitry is configured to: resize a first image, in the video data, that comprises the object that appears to be a weapon, such that the resized first image comprises a first certain number of pixels; crop the edges off an area comprising the object, in the resized first image; resize the cropped area, such that cropped area becomes a second image comprising a second certain number of pixels.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the area is defined by a bounding box.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the first certain number of pixels is the same as the second certain number of pixels.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein, with the generation of the weapon probability, the weapon detection circuitry is configured to: identify using computer vision, in contents of the video data, a combination of the object that appears to be a weapon and a body part of a person carrying the object; compare the identified combination to a predetermined combination of a weapon and a body part of a person carrying the weapon by inputting data related to the identified combination into an ANN that was trained by data related to the predetermined combination; and generate the weapon probability according to the comparison between the identified combination and the predetermined combination.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the decision circuitry is configured to determine the violence detection probability according to a machine learning process, and wherein the machine learning process is configured to use an artificial neural network (ANN) to output the violence detection probability.
11. A method, comprising: identifying, in contents of video data, an object that appears to be a weapon using a computer vision system; comparing the object to a predetermined weapon stored in a database by inputting data related to the object into an artificial neural network (ANN) that was trained by data related to the predetermined weapon; generating a weapon probability according to the comparison; determining a violence detection probability according to the generated weapon probability; and transmitting the violence detection probability to trigger an alert.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: comparing the violence detection probability to a threshold; and triggering an alerting action according to the comparison between the violence detection probability and the threshold.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: communicating an alert notification to an alerting server, which is a part of the alerting action; and communicating to a plurality of client devices, by the alerting server, the alert notification or a derivative thereof.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: recording, by a video camera, the video data; and communicating the video data to weapon detection circuitry to generate the weapon probability.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein, with the generation of the weapon probability, the method further comprises: repeatedly zooming in on the object that appears to be a weapon; analyzing the zoomed-in object to determine a confidence level that the object is a weapon or not a weapon; and generating the weapon probability according to the confidence level upon the confidence level exceeding a confidence threshold.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein, with the zooming in on the object, the method further comprises: resizing a first image, in the video data, that comprises the object that appears to be a weapon, such that the resized first image comprises a first certain number of pixels; cropping the edges off an area comprising the object, in the resized first image; resizing the cropped area, such that cropped area becomes a second image comprising a second certain number of pixels.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the area is defined by a bounding box, and wherein the first certain number of pixels is the same as the second certain number of pixels.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein, with the generation of the weapon probability, the method further comprises: identifying using computer vision, in contents of the video data, a combination of the object that appears to be a weapon and a body part of a person carrying the object; comparing the identified combination to a predetermined combination of a weapon and a body part of a person carrying the weapon by inputting data related to the identified combination into an ANN that was trained by data related to the predetermined combination; and generating the weapon probability according to the comparison between the identified combination and the predetermined combination.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein the determining of the violence detection probability is according to a machine learning process, and wherein the machine learning process includes using an artificial neural network (ANN) to output the violence detection probability.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium tangibly encoded with computer-executable instructions, that when executed by a processor associated with a computing device, performs a method, the method comprising: identifying, in contents of video data, an object that appears to be a weapon using a computer vision system; comparing the object to a predetermined weapon stored in a database by inputting data related to the object into an artificial neural network (ANN) that was trained by data related to the predetermined weapon; generating a weapon probability according to the comparison; determining a violence detection probability according to the generated weapon probability; and transmitting the violence detection probability to trigger an alert.
</claims>
</document>
