<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-27
</priority_date>

<assignee>
ENTEFY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GHAFOURIFAR, ALSTON
GHAFOURIFAR, BRIENNE
GHAFOURIFAR, MEHDI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69055135
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR INTELLIGENT AUTOMATED TASK ASSESSMENT AND LIST GENERATION
</title>

<abstract>
Improved message presentation and interaction of users, with respect to the receipt of and response to multi-protocol message events, includes generating summarizations of messages, valuation assessments of messages, and/or prioritization information. Summarization, value assessment generation, and prioritization may utilize a context of the message, its content, historical messages, time-based attributes, and/or other real-life conditions. Assessing relative values of messages is accomplished according to a valuation metric and complexity determination. A different valuation metric may be provided for each user. User information for a "new" message may be presented after: context-aware processing of the new message; context aware processing of attributes of the user that receives the message; and/or historical information based on previously received similar messages. Processing may be performed both at the time the message is available (i.e., sent/received) and/or in near real-time, i.e., as a user is about to see information about the message for the first time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving a first message at a first device, the first message from a first sending entity sent to a first user; parsing the first message to identify key identifiers within the first message; categorizing the first message based on the key identifiers, wherein categorizing includes associating the first message with at least one first context, the first context stored in a memory and forming an association of multiple messages related to each other based, in part, on content or subject matter references of each message; generating a value assessment for the first message, the value assessment based on a value assessment metric, wherein the value assessment metric is based on a plurality of context variables and indicates a predicted priority level or importance level with respect to the first user acting in response to the first message; determining the first user is accessing a user device; and presenting said value assessment associated with a presentation of the first message on the user device.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a user processing time estimate to predict a time duration for the first user completing an act in response to the first message; and presenting the user processing time estimate of the first message with the presentation of the first message on the user device.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving a second message at the first device, the second message sent after the first message and from the first sending entity to the first user; and updating the user processing time estimate for the first message based on information derived from the second message.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising: performing the updating as a just-in-time update of the user processing time estimate of the first message after determining the first user is accessing the user device and prior to presenting the time estimate of the first message on the user device.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising: updating the user processing time estimate in a time period between receiving the second message and determining the first user is accessing the user device.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving a plurality of messages at the first device, the plurality of messages sent after the first message, the plurality of messages from a plurality of sending entities sent to the first user; associating each of the plurality of messages with at least one of a plurality of contexts based on information determined using contents of each of the plurality of messages; determining which of the plurality of messages are associated with a context related to the first message to create a set of messages related to the first message; and updating the user processing time estimate of the first message based on information derived from at least two messages selected from the set of messages related to the first message.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving an indication of at least partial completion of an action related to the first message, the at least partial completion of the action performed by an individual other than the first user; and updating both the value assessment and the user processing time estimate of the first message based on the at least partial completion of the action.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said value assessment metric is tuned based on a per-user configuration setting based on reporting relationships between the first user and other users.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: updating the value assessment of the first message after determining the first user is accessing the user device and prior to presenting the value assessment of the first message on the user device.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a second message at the first device, the second message sent after the first message and from the first sending entity to the first user; and updating the value assessment of the first message based on information derived from the second message.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein updating the value assessment occurs in a time period between receiving the second message and determining the first user is accessing the user device.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a plurality of messages at the first device, the plurality of messages sent after the first message, the plurality of messages from a plurality of sending entities sent to the first user; associating each of the plurality of messages with at least one of a plurality of contexts based on information determined using contents of each of the plurality of messages; determining which of the plurality of messages are associated with a context related to the first message to create a set of messages related to the first message; and updating the value assessment of the first message based on information derived from at least two messages selected from the set of messages related to the first message.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising computer-executable instructions stored thereon, that when executed by one or more processing units, cause the one or more processing units to: receive a first message at a first device, the first message from a first sending entity sent to a first user; parse the first message to identify key identifiers within the first message; categorize the first message based on the key identifiers, wherein categorizing includes associating the first message with at least one first context, the first context stored in a memory and forming an association of multiple messages related to each other based, in part, on content or subject matter references of each message; generate a value assessment for the first message, the value assessment based on a value assessment metric, wherein the value assessment metric is based on a plurality of context variables and indicates a predicted priority level or importance level with respect to the first user acting in response to the first message; determine the first user is accessing a user device; and present said value assessment associated with a presentation of the first message on the user device.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the computer-executable instructions further comprise computer executable instructions to cause the one or more processing units to: generate a user processing time estimate to predict a time duration for the first user completing an act in response to the first message; and present the user processing time estimate of the first message with the presentation of the first message on the user device.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the computer-executable instructions further comprise computer executable instructions to cause the one or more processing units to: receive a second message at the first device, the second message sent after the first message and from the first sending entity to the first user; and update the user processing time estimate for the first message based on information derived from the second message.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the computer-executable instructions further comprise computer executable instructions to cause the one or more processing units to: perform the updating as a just-in-time update of the user processing time estimate of the first message after determining the first user is accessing the user device and prior to presenting the time estimate of the first message on the user device.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the computer-executable instructions further comprise computer executable instructions to cause the one or more processing units to: update the user processing time estimate in a time period between receiving the second message and determining the first user is accessing the user device.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the computer-executable instructions further comprise computer executable instructions to cause the one or more processing units to: receive an indication of at least partial completion of an action related to the first message, the at least partial completion of the action performed by an individual other than the first user; and update both the value assessment and the user processing time estimate of the first message based on the at least partial completion of the action.
19. An apparatus, comprising: a network communications interface; a memory; and one or more processing units, communicatively coupled to the memory and the network communications interface, wherein the memory stores instructions configured to cause the one or more processing units to: receive, via the network device, a first message at a first device, the first message from a first sending entity sent to a first user; parse the first message to identify key identifiers within the first message; categorize the first message based on the key identifiers, wherein categorizing includes associating the first message with at least one first context, the first context stored in a memory and forming an association of multiple messages related to each other based, in part, on content or subject matter references of each message; generate a value assessment for the first message, the value assessment based on a value assessment metric, wherein the value assessment metric is based on a plurality of context variables and indicates a predicted priority level or importance level with respect to the first user acting in response to the first message; determine the first user is accessing a user device; and present said value assessment associated with a presentation of the first message on the user device.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the memory further stores instructions configured to cause the one or more processing units to: generate a user processing time estimate to predict a time duration for the first user completing an act in response to the first message; present the user processing time estimate of the first message with the presentation of the first message on the user device; receive an indication of at least partial completion of an action related to the first message, the at least partial completion of the action performed by an individual other than the first user; and update both the value assessment and the user processing time estimate of the first message based on the at least partial completion of the action.
</claims>
</document>
