<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W16/10,H04W16/14,H04W4/70,H04W40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
AT&T MOBILITY II
</assignee>

<inventors>
CUI, ZHI
DOWLATKHAH, SANGAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67770301
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic radio access network and intelligent service delivery for multi-carrier access for 5G or other next generation network
</title>

<abstract>
A framework of abstraction of new and existing 5G radios can enhance capabilities of new and existing micro radios and other short range radio technologies to enable intelligent service delivery, dynamic access learning capability, and network slicing over 5G access networks. Enhancing layer communication for both control and user plane can be tunneled through the hosting layer and exploit a common transport provided by the hosting layer. The tunneling through the hosting layer can also enable the enhance capabilities to access the same radio management functions and can be orchestrated by the same core function. The framework for abstraction of the resources can be used to provide dynamic sharing of the resources and then be divided amongst different carriers.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: generating, by a network device comprising a software-defined functionality and a processor, a common control plane associated with a dedicated control plane of a wireless network; in response to the generating the common control plane, generating, by the network device, a dedicated user plane associated with the dedicated control plane; based on receiving, from a service application, a resource request representative of a requested resource to be provided to a carrier device of carrier devices associated with a carrier identity, facilitating, by the network device, transmitting resource request data representative of the resource request to an access slice layer of the wireless network to allocate the requested resource to the carrier device; and in response to the facilitating the transmitting of the resource request data, facilitating, by the network device, allocating the requested resource to the carrier device and selecting a radio technology based on a service level agreement associated with the carrier device.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to the transmitting the resource request data, facilitating, by the network device, a resource allocation to fulfill the resource request from the carrier device.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the requested resource is a bandwidth to be dedicated to the carrier device.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the carrier identity is a first carrier identity, and further comprising: facilitating, by the network device, partitioning the requested resource between the first carrier identity and a second carrier identity different than the first carrier identity.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first carrier identity utilizes a base station device associated with a hosting layer of the wireless network and a second carrier identity to receive the requested resource.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating the common control plane is performed in response to receiving a request for access by the carrier devices associated with the carrier identity of a carrier.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the requested resource is a radio channel to be utilized by the carrier device.
8. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: based on a request to enable access for carrier devices associated with a carrier identity indicative of a carrier, generating a common control plane associated with a dedicated control plane of a wireless network; in response to linking a dedicated user plane to be associated with the dedicated control plane, receiving a resource request representative of a requested resource to be provided to a carrier device of the carrier devices; based on the receiving the resource request, sending resource request data representative of the resource request to an access slice layer of the wireless network to allocate the requested resource to the carrier device; and in response to the sending the resource request data, allocating the requested resource to the carrier device and selecting a radio technology based on a service level agreement associated with the carrier device.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the carrier device is a first carrier device associated with a first carrier identity of a first carrier, and wherein the operations further comprise: in response to a priority associated with a second carrier device associated with a second carrier identity of a second carrier, allocating the requested resource to the first carrier device.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the generating the common control plane is performed in response to receiving the request to enable the access for the carrier devices.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the requested resource is a radio channel to be used by the carrier device to send data to a service application.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the requested resource is a quality of service associated with a network device of the wireless network.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the carrier device utilizes a wireless fidelity device associated with an enhancing layer of the wireless network to receive the requested resource.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the linking the dedicated user plane to be associated with the dedicated control plane is performed in response to the generating the common control plane.
15. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: in response to a common control plane being linked to a dedicated control plane, facilitating linking a dedicated user plane to the dedicated control plane; in response to the common control plane being linked to the dedicated control plane, receiving a resource request representative of a requested resource to be provided to a carrier device of a carrier; based on the receiving the resource request, facilitating sending resource request data representative of the resource request to an access slice layer of a wireless network to allocate the requested resource to the carrier device; and in response to the facilitating the sending of the resource request data, facilitating allocating the requested resource to the carrier device and selecting a radio technology based on a service level agreement associated with the carrier device.
16. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: facilitating linking the common control plane to the dedicated control plane of the wireless network.
17. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving an access request from the carrier device via a network device comprising a software-defined functionality, wherein the access request is received in response to a service application, associated with the carrier, requesting the requested resource.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the requested resource is a quality of service to be allocated to a service application.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to the facilitating the sending of the resource request data representative of the resource request to the access slice layer, facilitating allocating an amount of bandwidth to a service application via the carrier device.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the common control plane is linked to the dedicated control plane in response to facilitating generating the common control plane.
</claims>
</document>
