<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0484,G06Q10/10,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VMWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOW, ADAM
KULKARNI, MAYANK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65436220
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SMART EMAIL TASK REMINDERS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods herein assist users by identifying actionable tasks in an email and providing reminders and other tracking mechanisms for those tasks. For example, a method can include extracting a portion of the email and assigning a number to each word of the extracted portion of the email according to a library. The method can further include determining, based on the assigned numbers, whether the extracted portion of the email includes at least one actionable portion. In response to determining that the extracted portion of the email includes at least one actionable portion, at least one actionable portion can be presented to the user on a GUI associated with the user's device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A method for presenting actionable items from a received email, comprising: extracting a portion of the received email and processing the portion with a trained model; determining that the portion includes at least one actionable item; presenting, in a first section of a graphical user interface ("GUI"), the received email in a list view that includes and displays only emails with one or more actionable items; presenting, in a second section of the GUI adjacent to the first section, a body of the received email in an email view based on a selection of the received email from the list view; and visually distinguishing the at least one actionable item within the email view relative to other portions of the received email.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein action types of actionable items include sending an email response, placing a phone call, confirming receipt of an item, providing a document, performing a task, and responding to a meeting invitation, wherein presenting the received email in the list view includes presenting a first received email and a second received email, and wherein the first received email includes a first actionable item of an action type different from that of a second actionable item of the second received email.
23. The method of claim 21, wherein the at least one actionable item includes multiple actionable items, and wherein presenting the received email in the list view includes displaying a graphical element that indicates the received email includes multiple actionable items.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein presenting the body in the second section of the GUI includes presenting a selectable option along with the body in the email view, and wherein visually distinguishing the at least one actionable item in the email view includes highlighting the at least one actionable item based on a selection of the selectable option.
25. The method of claim 21, further comprising, presenting, with respect to actionable items of received emails presented to a user over a period of time, a graphical representation of completed actionable items relative to total actionable items in the second section of the GUI.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein visually distinguishing includes highlighting the at least one actionable item relative to the other portions by at least one of obscuring the other portions and presenting the at least one actionable item in a format different from a format of the other portions.
27. The method of claim 21, further comprising: presenting a feedback element in the GUI; generating feedback data indicating an accuracy of the determining based on a selection of at least one selectable element associated with the feedback element; and utilizing the feedback data to refine the trained model for identifying actionable items.
28. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by a processor, perform stages for presenting actionable items from a received email, the stages comprising: extracting a portion of the received email and processing the portion with a trained model; determining that the portion includes at least one actionable item; presenting, in a first section of a graphical user interface ("GUI"), the received email in a list view that includes and displays only emails with one or more actionable items; presenting, in a second section of the GUI adjacent to the first section, a body of the received email in an email view based on a selection of the received email from the list view; and visually distinguishing the at least one actionable item within the email view relative to other portions of the received email.
29. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 28, wherein action types of actionable items include sending an email response, placing a phone call, confirming receipt of an item, providing a document, performing a task, and responding to a meeting invitation, wherein presenting the received email in the list view includes presenting a first received email and a second received email, and wherein the first received email includes a first actionable item of an action type different from that of a second actionable item of the second received email.
30. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 28, wherein the at least one actionable item includes multiple actionable items, and wherein presenting the received email in the list view includes displaying a graphical element that indicates the received email includes multiple actionable items.
31. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 28, wherein presenting the body in the second section of the GUI includes presenting a selectable option along with the body in the email view, and wherein visually distinguishing the at least one actionable item in the email view includes highlighting the at least one actionable item based on a selection of the selectable option.
32. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 28, the stages further comprising, presenting, with respect to actionable items of received emails presented to a user over a period of time, a graphical representation of completed actionable items relative to total actionable items in the second section of the GUI.
33. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 28, wherein visually distinguishing includes highlighting the at least one actionable item relative to the other portions by at least one of obscuring the other portions and presenting the at least one actionable item in a format different from a format of the other portions.
34. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 28, the stages further comprising: presenting a feedback element in the GUI; generating feedback data indicating an accuracy of the determining based on a selection of at least one selectable element associated with the feedback element; and utilizing the feedback data to refine the trained model for identifying actionable items.
35. A system, for presenting actionable items from a received email, comprising: stages comprising: a memory storage including a non-transitory, computer-readable medium comprising instructions; and a user device including a processor that executes the instructions to carry out stages comprising: extracting a portion of the received email and processing the portion with a trained model; determining that the portion includes at least one actionable item; presenting, in a first section of a graphical user interface ("GUI"), the received email in a list view that includes and displays only emails with one or more actionable items; presenting, in a second section of the GUI adjacent to the first section, a body of the received email in an email view based on a selection of the received email from the list view; and visually distinguishing the at least one actionable item within the email view relative to other portions of the received email.
36. The system of claim 35, wherein action types of actionable items include sending an email response, placing a phone call, confirming receipt of an item, providing a document, performing a task, and responding to a meeting invitation, wherein presenting the received email in the list view includes presenting a first received email and a second received email, and wherein the first received email includes a first actionable item of an action type different from that of a second actionable item of the second received email.
37. The system of claim 35, wherein the at least one actionable item includes multiple actionable items, and wherein presenting the received email in the list view includes displaying a graphical element that indicates the received email includes multiple actionable items.
38. The system of claim 35, the stages further comprising, presenting, with respect to actionable items of received emails presented to a user over a period of time, a graphical representation of completed actionable items relative to total actionable items in the second section of the GUI.
39. The system of claim 35, wherein visually distinguishing includes highlighting the at least one actionable item relative to the other portions by at least one of obscuring the other portions and presenting the at least one actionable item in a format different from a format of the other portions.
40. The system of claim 35, the stages further comprising: presenting a feedback element in the GUI; generating feedback data indicating an accuracy of the determining based on a selection of at least one selectable element associated with the feedback element; and utilizing the feedback data to refine the trained model for identifying actionable items.
</claims>
</document>
