<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B01D17/04,B01D35/00,B01D39/16,B60D1/48,B60P3/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUELIE SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
STUMPF, THOMAS R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65994699
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Fuel Trailer
</title>

<abstract>
A fuel trailer configured to store and process fuel. The fuel trailer includes a frame with wheels; a fuel tank mounted to the frame, and a fuel system downstream from the fuel tank to move the fuel from the fuel tank. The fuel system can include filters that remove contaminants from the fuel, pumps to move the fuel, and redundant fuel lines. A dispensing end can be positioned to dispense the fuel to an outside device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A portable fueling trailer comprising: a frame; an axle and wheels attached to the frame; a fuel tank mounted to the frame, the fuel tank comprising an enclosed interior space to contain fuel; a fuel system downstream from the fuel tank to move the fuel from the fuel tank, the fuel system comprising: a plurality of filters each configured to remove contaminants from the fuel; redundant first and second fuel lines that each comprise a pump to move the fuel; and a connector downstream from the first and second fuel lines with a pair of inlets to receive the fuel from the first and second fuel lines and a single outlet downstream from the pair of inlets; and a dispensing end positioned downstream from the single outlet.
2. The portable fueling trailer of claim 1, wherein a first one of the filters is located on the first fuel line and a second one of the filters is located on the second fuel line.
3. The portable fueling trailer of claim 1, wherein one of the filters is a particulate filter, a second one of the filters is an organic filter, and a third one of the filters is a coalescing filter to remove water from the fuel.
4. The portable fueling trailer of claim 1, further comprising a return fuel line that extends between the fuel system downstream from the single outlet and the fuel tank, the return fuel line configured to return the fuel to the fuel tank after the fuel has moved through the fuel system.
5. The portable fueling trailer of claim 4, further comprising a valve positioned at an intersection of the return fuel line and the fuel system, the valve configured to direct the fuel towards one of the dispensing end and the return fuel line.
6. The portable fueling trailer of claim 1, further comprising an input line that connects to the fuel system downstream from the fuel tank and upstream from the plurality of filters, the input line configured to introduce outside fuel into the fuel system.
7. The portable fueling trailer of claim 6, further comprising an input line pump positioned on the input line to move the outside fuel along the input line and into the fuel system.
8. The portable fueling trailer of claim 6, further comprising a valve positioned along the fuel system between the fuel tank and the input line, the valve preventing the outside fuel from moving upstream along the fuel system and into the fuel tank.
9. The portable fueling trailer of claim 1, further comprising: sensors positioned along the fuel line and the fuel tank; and a control system comprising a processing circuit and a communications interface circuit, the control system configured to receive signals from the sensors and adjust one or more of the pumps to adjust the flow rate of the fuel moving through the fuel system.
10. The portable fueling trailer of claim 1, further comprising a hitch positioned on a front of the frame and configured to be attached to a vehicle.
11. The portable fueling trailer of claim 9, wherein the control system is configured to receive signals from a remote source and in response to the signals move the fuel from the fuel tank and through the fuel system and return the fuel to the fuel tank.
12. The portable fueling trailer of claim 9, wherein the control system is configured to periodically move the fuel through the fuel system and return the fuel to the fuel tank to maintain the fuel in a usable state.
13. A portable fueling trailer comprising: a frame with wheels; a fuel tank mounted to the frame, the fuel tank comprising an enclosed interior space to contain fuel; and a fuel system to move the fuel from the fuel tank, the fuel system comprising: first and second filters that remove contaminants from the fuel; redundant first and second fuel lines positioned downstream from the first and second filters, each of the first and second fuel lines having a pump and a third filter configured to remove additional contaminants from the fuel; a connector with a pair of inlets to receive the fuel from the first and second fuel lines and a single outlet downstream from the pair of inlets; and a dispensing end positioned downstream from the connector to dispense the fuel.
14. The portable fueling trailer of claim 13, further comprising a return line that extends between the fuel system downstream from the single outlet and the fuel tank, the return line configured to return the fuel to the fuel tank that has moved through the fuel system.
15. The portable fueling trailer of claim 13, further comprising an input line that connects to the fuel system downstream from the fuel tank and upstream from the filters, the input line configured to introduce outside fuel into the fuel system.
16. The portable fueling trailer of claim 13, further comprising a control system comprising a processing circuit and a communications interface circuit, the control system configured to receive signals from sensors in the fuel system and adjust one or more of the pumps to adjust the flow rate of the fuel moving through the fuel system.
17. A method of using a portable fueling trailer, the method comprising: wheeling a fueling trailer to a desired geographic location; moving fuel from a fuel tank in the fueling trailer through a plurality of filters and removing contaminants from the fuel; moving with a first pump a first portion of the fuel through a first fuel line and filtering the first portion of the fuel; while moving the first portion of the fuel through the first fuel line, simultaneously pumping with a second pump a remaining second portion of the fuel through a second fuel line and filtering the second portion of the fuel; and moving the first and second portions of the fuel from the first and second fuel lines and into a single fuel line; and dispensing the fuel from the single fuel line.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising prior to dispensing the fuel from the single fuel line, moving the fuel from the single fuel line and through a return line and back into the fuel tank.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising introducing outside fuel into an input line and into the fueling trailer downstream from the fuel tank and upstream from the plurality of filters and moving the outside fuel through the plurality of filters.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising preventing the outside fuel from moving into the fuel tank prior to moving the outside fuel through the plurality of filters.
</claims>
</document>
