<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64C39/02,F41H11/02,G05D1/00,G08G5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH DAKOTA
</assignee>

<inventors>
VACEK, JOSEPH JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69228877
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Unmanned aerial system detection and mitigation
</title>

<abstract>
The present subject matter provides various technical solutions to technical problems facing UAV detection and mitigation. Information received from UAV detection sensors may be analyzed or matched against known UAV characteristics. The analysis or matching may be used to identify the UAV, analyze the UAV characteristics or navigational behavior, and classify the UAV behavior and the UAV itself. The UAV may be classified as either compliant, ignorant (e.g., unintentional) and noncompliant, or purposeful (e.g., intentional) and noncompliant. The UAV classification may be improved by using UAV characteristic analysis performed by an artificial neural network (ANN) algorithm using specific UAV classifiers. A UAV mitigation command or mitigation response may be generated based on the UAV characteristic analysis combined with a UAV safety risk assessment. The mitigation command may cause nondestructive interference, destruction, capture, or another UAV mitigation response.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An unmanned aerial vehicle detection and mitigation system comprising: an unmanned aerial vehicle detection sensor to detect an unmanned aerial vehicle within a detection zone and generate a detection data set, the detection data set including an aerial vehicle identification and an aerial vehicle location; an unmanned aerial vehicle mitigation device, one or more processors; one or more storage devices comprising instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors, configure the one or more processors to: receive the detection data set from the unmanned aerial vehicle detection sensor; determine an unmanned aerial vehicle flight risk level and a compliance classification based on the detection data set; determine an unmanned aerial vehicle corrective action based on the flight risk level and the compliance classification; and cause the unmanned aerial vehicle mitigation device to execute the corrective action.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the determination of the compliance classification includes classifying the detection data set as one of a compliant flight behavior, an unintentional noncompliant flight behavior, or an intentional noncompliant flight behavior.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the determination of the compliance classification based on the detection data set includes an aerial vehicle classification engine stored in the one or more storage devices, the aerial vehicle classification engine previously trained with a labeled input data set for supervised learning, the labeled input data set including a plurality of previously classified unmanned aerial vehicle detection sensor data.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the determination of the compliance classification based on the detection data set includes training the aerial vehicle classification engine with an unlabeled input data set for unsupervised learning, the unlabeled input data set including the detection data set from the unmanned aerial vehicle detection sensor.
5. The system of claim 2, wherein the flight risk level includes at least one of a high flight risk level, a medium flight risk level, and a low flight risk level.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein: the corrective action includes a nondestructive interference; and the mitigation device generates a radio frequency interference signal to interrupt a navigation communication between the aerial vehicle and an aerial vehicle control device.
7. The system of claim 2, wherein the risk level is determined to include at least one of: the unintentional noncompliant flight behavior in the high flight risk level; and the intentional noncompliant flight behavior in the medium flight risk level.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein: the corrective action includes a nondestructive disablement; and the mitigation device generates a radio frequency disablement signal to disable the aerial vehicle.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein: the corrective action includes a temporary capture; and the mitigation device deploys an aerial vehicle temporary capture countermeasure.
10. The system of claim 2, wherein the risk level is determined to include the intentional noncompliant flight behavior in the high flight risk level.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein: the corrective action includes a destructive disablement; and the mitigation device generates a radio frequency disablement signal to disable the aerial vehicle.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein: the corrective action includes a permanent capture; and the mitigation device deploys an aerial vehicle permanent capture countermeasure.
13. An unmanned aerial vehicle detection and mitigation method comprising: detecting an unmanned aerial vehicle within a detection zone; generating a detection data set, the detection data set including an aerial vehicle identification and an aerial vehicle location; receiving the detection data set from an unmanned aerial vehicle detection sensor; determining an unmanned aerial vehicle flight risk level and a compliance classification based on the detection data set; determining an unmanned aerial vehicle corrective action based on the flight risk level and the compliance classification; and causing an unmanned aerial vehicle mitigation device to execute the corrective action.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the determination of the compliance classification includes classifying the detection data set as one of a compliant flight behavior, an unintentional noncompliant flight behavior, or an intentional noncompliant flight behavior.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the determination of the compliance classification based on the detection data set includes an aerial vehicle classification engine stored in the one or more storage devices, the aerial vehicle classification engine previously trained with a labeled input data set for supervised learning, the labeled input data set including a plurality of previously classified unmanned aerial vehicle detection sensor data.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the determination of the compliance classification based on the detection data set includes training the aerial vehicle classification engine with an unlabeled input data set for unsupervised learning, the unlabeled input data set including the detection data set from the unmanned aerial vehicle detection sensor.
17. At least one machine-readable storage medium, comprising a plurality of instructions that, responsive to being executed with processor circuitry of a computer-controlled device, cause the computer-controlled device to: detect an unmanned aerial vehicle within a detection zone; generate a detection data set, the detection data set including an aerial vehicle identification and an aerial vehicle location; receive the detection data set from an unmanned aerial vehicle detection sensor; determine an unmanned aerial vehicle flight risk level and a compliance classification based on the detection data set; determine an unmanned aerial vehicle corrective action based on the flight risk level and the compliance classification; and cause an unmanned aerial vehicle mitigation device to execute the corrective action.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the determination of the compliance classification includes classifying the detection data set as one of a compliant flight behavior, an unintentional noncompliant flight behavior, or an intentional noncompliant flight behavior.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the determination of the compliance classification based on the detection data set includes an aerial vehicle classification engine stored in the one or more storage devices, the aerial vehicle classification engine previously trained with a labeled input data set for supervised learning, the labeled input data set including a plurality of previously classified unmanned aerial vehicle detection sensor data.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the determination of the compliance classification based on the detection data set includes training the aerial vehicle classification engine with an unlabeled input data set for unsupervised learning, the unlabeled input data set including the detection data set from the unmanned aerial vehicle detection sensor.
</claims>
</document>
