<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LYFT
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOUSTON, JOHN
BENISCH, MICHAEL JARED
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74044619
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTOMATED TRAJECTORY PREDICTION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media can determine a raster representative of a surrounding environment of a vehicle, wherein the raster depicts one or more objects in the surrounding environment of the vehicle. A plurality of trajectory proposals are determined for a first object of the one or more objects. For each trajectory proposal of the plurality of trajectory proposals, a score indicative of a likelihood that the first object will take a trajectory consistent with the trajectory proposal, and an offset for modifying the trajectory proposal are generated. A predicted trajectory is determined for the first object based on the scores and the offsets for the plurality of trajectory proposals
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: determining, by a computing system, a raster representative of a surrounding environment of a vehicle, wherein the raster depicts one or more objects in the surrounding environment of the vehicle; determining, by the computing system, a plurality of trajectory proposals for a first object of the one or more objects; generating, by the computing system, for each trajectory proposal of the plurality of trajectory proposals, a score indicative of a likelihood that the first object will take a trajectory consistent with the trajectory proposal, and an offset for modifying the trajectory proposal; and determining, by the computing system, a predicted trajectory for the first object based on the scores and the offsets for the plurality of trajectory proposals.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: storing ground truth trajectory information for the first object based on an actual trajectory traveled by the first object, wherein the ground truth trajectory information is used to train a machine learning model.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determining the predicted trajectory for the first object based on the scores and the offsets comprises: selecting a first trajectory proposal of the plurality of trajectory proposals based on the scores, and modifying the first trajectory proposal with a first offset associated with the first trajectory proposal.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each trajectory proposal of the plurality of trajectory proposals is represented by a vector comprising a plurality of position values, each position value is associated with a particular time, and the plurality of position values and the associated times define a potential trajectory.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein each offset comprises a plurality of offset values for modifying the plurality of position values in the trajectory proposal associated with the offset.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein each trajectory proposal of the plurality of trajectory proposals can be converted into a modified trajectory proposal by combining the trajectory proposal with its associated offset, and each modified trajectory proposal would result in a higher score output from the machine learning model than its associated trajectory proposal.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the raster is a two-dimensional image.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the raster further comprises semantic map information.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the raster further comprises previous trajectory information for each object of the one or more objects.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein at least some of the plurality of trajectory proposals are automatically generated based on previous trajectory information for the first object.
11. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to perform: determining a raster representative of a surrounding environment of a vehicle, wherein the raster depicts one or more objects in the surrounding environment of the vehicle; determining a plurality of trajectory proposals for a first object of the one or more objects; generating, for each trajectory proposal of the plurality of trajectory proposals, a score indicative of a likelihood that the first object will take a trajectory consistent with the trajectory proposal, and an offset for modifying the trajectory proposal; and determining a predicted trajectory for the first object based on the scores and the offsets for the plurality of trajectory proposals.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to perform: storing ground truth trajectory information for the first object based on an actual trajectory traveled by the first object, wherein the ground truth trajectory information is used to train a machine learning model.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the determining the predicted trajectory for the first object based on the scores and the offsets comprises: selecting a first trajectory proposal of the plurality of trajectory proposals based on the scores, and modifying the first trajectory proposal with a first offset associated with the first trajectory proposal.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein each trajectory proposal of the plurality of trajectory proposals is represented by a vector comprising a plurality of position values, each position value is associated with a particular time, and the plurality of position values and the associated times define a potential trajectory.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein each offset comprises a plurality of offset values for modifying the plurality of position values in the trajectory proposal associated with the offset.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform a method comprising: determining a raster representative of a surrounding environment of a vehicle, wherein the raster depicts one or more objects in the surrounding environment of the vehicle; determining a plurality of trajectory proposals for a first object of the one or more objects; generating, for each trajectory proposal of the plurality of trajectory proposals, a score indicative of a likelihood that the first object will take a trajectory consistent with the trajectory proposal, and an offset for modifying the trajectory proposal; and determining a predicted trajectory for the first object based on the scores and the offsets for the plurality of trajectory proposals.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor of the computing system, further cause the computing system to perform: storing ground truth trajectory information for the first object based on an actual trajectory traveled by the first object, wherein the ground truth trajectory information is used to train a machine learning model.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the determining the predicted trajectory for the first object based on the scores and the offsets comprises: selecting a first trajectory proposal of the plurality of trajectory proposals based on the scores, and modifying the first trajectory proposal with a first offset associated with the first trajectory proposal.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein each trajectory proposal of the plurality of trajectory proposals is represented by a vector comprising a plurality of position values, each position value is associated with a particular time, and the plurality of position values and the associated times define a potential trajectory.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein each offset comprises a plurality of offset values for modifying the plurality of position values in the trajectory proposal associated with the offset.
</claims>
</document>
