<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06F21/62,G06K9/46,G06K9/66,G06N20/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,H04L9/00,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OPEN INFERENCE HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
STREIT, SCOTT EDWARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69229375
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PRIVACY-ENABLED BIOMETRIC PROCESSING
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a set of feature vectors can be derived from any biometric data, and then using a deep neural network ("DNN") on those one-way homomorphic encryptions (i.e., each biometrics' feature vector) an authentication system can determine matches or execute searches on encrypted data. Each biometrics' feature vector can then be stored and/or used in conjunction with respective classifications, for use in subsequent comparisons without fear of compromising the original biometric data. In various embodiments, the original biometric data is discarded responsive to generating the encrypted values. In another embodiment, the homomorphic encryption enables computations and comparisons on cypher text without decryption of the encrypted feature vectors. Security of such privacy enable biometrics can be increased by implementing an assurance factor (e.g., liveness) to establish a submitted biometric has not been spoofed or faked.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A privacy-enabled biometric system comprising: at least one processor operatively connected to a memory, the at least one processor configured to: determine an authentication mode; trigger one or both of a first machine learning ("ML") process or a second ML process responsive to determining the authentication mode; execute the first ML process, wherein the first ML process when executed by the at least one processor is configured to: accept distance measurable encrypted feature vector and label inputs during training of a first classification neural network and classify distance measurable encrypted feature vector inputs as part of authentication using the first classification network once trained; execute the second ML process, wherein the second ML process when executed by the at least one processor is configured to: accept plain text biometric inputs during training of a generation neural network to generate distance measurable encrypted feature vectors; and compare distances between distance measurable encrypted feature vectors during authentication.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein one of the first ML process or the second ML process is configured to: determine one or more distances between encrypted feature vectors produced by the generation neural network; exclude encrypted feature vectors having one or more distances exceeding a threshold distance for subsequent training processes; and include encrypted feature vectors having distances within the threshold distance for subsequent training processes.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine the authentication mode includes an enrollment mode for establishing a new entity for subsequent authentication.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the at least one processor is configured to trigger at least the second classification ML process responsive to determining a current authentication mode includes the enrollment mode.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the at least one processor is configured to trigger at least training operations of both the first and second classification ML processes responsive to determining that the current authentication mode includes the enrollment mode.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the at least one processor is configured to execute the at least part of the second classification process to authenticate the new user until at least a period of time required for training the first classification network expires.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the at least one processor is configured to execute the at least part of the first classification process to authenticate the new user responsive to completing training of the first classification network.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first classification network comprises a deep neural network ("DNN"), wherein the DNN is configured to: generate an array of values in response to the input of the at least one unclassified encrypted feature vector during authentication; and determine a label or unknown result based on analyzing the generate array of values.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the embedding network comprises a learning network configured to accept plain text biometric as input and generate distance measurable encrypted feature vectors as output.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the first classification network is configured to return a label for identification or an unknown result, responsive to input of encrypted feature vector input for authentication.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is configured to: determine a probability of match using the first classification neural network is below a threshold value; and validate an unknown result output by the first classification network based on distance analysis of a highest probability match compared to the input feature vectors.
12. A computer implemented method for privacy enabled authentication, the method comprising: determine, by at least one processor, an authentication mode; triggering, by the at least one processor, one or both of a first machine learning ("ML") process or a second ML process responsive to determining the authentication mode; executing, by the at least one processor, the first ML process, wherein executing the first ML process includes: accepting distance measurable encrypted feature vector and label inputs during training of a first classification neural network and classifying distance measurable encrypted feature vector inputs as part of authentication using the first classification network once trained; executing, by the at least one processor, the second ML process, wherein executing the second ML process includes: accepting plain text biometric inputs during training of a generation neural network to generate distance measurable encrypted feature vectors; and comparing distances between distance measurable encrypted feature vectors during authentication.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining one or more distances between encrypted feature vectors produced by the generation neural network; excluding encrypted feature vectors having one or more distances exceeding a threshold distance for subsequent training processes; and including encrypted feature vectors having distances within the threshold distance for subsequent training processes.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising determining the authentication mode includes an enrollment mode for establishing a new entity for subsequent authentication.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising triggering at least the second classification ML process responsive to determining a current authentication mode includes the enrollment mode.
16. The method of claim 14, further comprising triggering at least training operations of both the first and second classification ML processes responsive to determining that the current authentication mode includes the enrollment mode.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising executing the at least part of the second classification process to authenticate the new user until at least a period of time required for training the first classification network expires.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising executing the at least part of the first classification process to authenticate the new user responsive to completing training of the first classification network.
19. The method of claim 12, further comprising: generating, by a deep learning neural network ("DNN") an array of values in response to the input of the at least one unclassified encrypted feature vector during authentication; and determining a label or unknown result based on analyzing the generate array of values.
20. The method of claim 12, further comprising accepting plain text biometric as input and generating distance measurable encrypted feature vectors as output.
21. The method of claim 12, further comprising returning a label for identification or an unknown result, responsive to input of encrypted feature vector input for authentication.
22. The method of claim 12, further comprising: analyzing a user input set of instances of a first biometric data type; and validating an authentication request responsive to determining a match between the user input set of instances and a set of biometric instances randomly generated for the authentication request.
</claims>
</document>
