<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G06K9/00,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHIM, HWAN
LEE, Hongji
PARK, Jongin
JEON, Taehan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68101009
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND DEVICE FOR MEASURING BIOMETRIC INFORMATION IN ELECTRONIC DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed in various embodiments of the present invention are a method and a device for measuring a user's biometric information in an electronic device and providing information related to the biometric information. An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention comprises a sensor module, a camera module, a display device, and a processor, wherein the processor can be configured to: execute an application; acquire a user's first biometric information on the basis of the sensor module while the operation relating to the application is performed; estimate a user's health information at least one the basis of the first biometric information, and link the health information with the operation relating to the application so as to display same through the display device. Various embodiments are possible.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device comprising: a sensor module; a camera module; a display; and a processor, wherein the processor is configured to execute an application, acquire first biometric information of a user through the sensor module while an operation related to the application is performed, estimate health information of the user, based on at least the first biometric information, and associate the health information with the operation related to the application and display the health information through the display device.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to execute a health mode for performing an operation based on the first biometric information in a state in which the operation related to the application is maintained in response to detection of the first biometric information from the sensor module while the operation related to the application is performed.
3. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine whether there is previously measured second biometric information while the operation related to the application is performed in response to detection of the first biometric information from the sensor module and acquire merged biometric information obtained by merging the previously measured biometric information and the first biometric information.
4. The electronic device of claim 3, wherein the first biometric information and the second biometric information are discontinuous information measured in different contact sessions by the sensor module while the operation related to the application is performed.
5. The electronic device of claim 3, wherein the processor is configured to reduce an estimation time of the health information, based on the merged biometric information.
6. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to calculate a measurement time required for the first biometric information, determine at least one piece of health information that can be estimated based on the measurement time, and display a first object related to at least one piece of the health information in a configured area of the display device.
7. The electronic device of claim 6, wherein the processor is configured to augment and display the first object, displayed through the display device, based on the measurement time and display a second object related to the health information through the display device, based on the measurement time.
8. The electronic device of claim 7, wherein a first measurement time for acquiring the first object related to the health information is shorter than a second measurement time for acquiring the second object related to the health information.
9. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to acquire additional third biometric information, based on a module related to the operation of the application while acquiring the first biometric information through the sensor module so as to concurrently process the first biometric information and the third biometric information.
10. A method of operating an electronic device, the method comprising: executing an application; acquiring first biometric information of a user through a sensor module while an operation related to the application is performed; estimating health information of the user, based on at least the first biometric information; and associating the health information with the operation related to the application and displaying the health information through the display device.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the acquiring of the first biometric information of the user comprises executing a health mode for performing an operation based on the first biometric information in a state in which the operation related to the application is maintained in response to detection of the first biometric information from the sensor module while the operation related to the application is performed.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the acquiring of the first biometric information of the user comprises: determining whether there is previously measured second biometric information while the operation related to the application is performed in response to detection of the first biometric information from the sensor module; and acquiring merged biometric information, obtained by merging the previously measured biometric information and the first biometric information, wherein the first biometric information and the second biometric information are discontinuous information measured in different contact sessions by the sensor module while the operation related to the application is performed.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the estimating of the health information of the user comprises reducing an estimation time of the health information, based on the merged biometric information.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the displaying of the health information comprises: determining at least one piece of health information, based on a measurement time required for the first biometric information and displaying a first object related to at least one piece of the health information in a configured area of the display device; augmenting and displaying the first object, displayed through the display device, based on the measurement time; and displaying a second object related to the health information through the display device, based on the measurement time.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the acquiring of the first biometric information of the user comprises acquiring additional third biometric information, based on a module related to the operation related to the application while acquiring the first biometric information through the sensor module so as to concurrently process the first biometric information and the third biometric information.
</claims>
</document>
