<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/055,G01R33/54,G01R33/56,G01R33/563
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NOVA SCOTIA HEALTH AUTHORITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
RIOUX, James
MURTHA, Nathan
BEYEA, Steven
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65039440
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR RECONSTRUCTION OF DYNAMIC MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING DATA
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for performing automated reconstruction of a dynamic MRI dataset that is acquired without a fixed temporal resolution. On one or more image quality metrics (IQMs) are obtained by processing a subset of the acquired dataset. In one example implementation, at each stage of an iterative process, one or more IQMs of the image subset is computed, and the parameters controlling the reconstruction and/or the strategy for data combination are adjusted to provide an improved or optimal image reconstruction. Once the IQM of the image subset satisfies acceptance criteria based on an estimate of the overall temporal fidelity of the reconstruction, the full reconstruction can be performed, and the estimate of the overall temporal fidelity can be reported based on the IQM at the final iteration.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of performing dynamic magnetic resonance imaging, the method comprising: a) controlling a magnetic resonance imaging scanner to generate a sequence of RF pulses and detect RF signals that are responsively emitted by a subject positioned with a bore of the magnetic resonance imaging scanner, thereby obtaining an input dataset, wherein the sequence of RF pulses is selected to facilitate image reconstruction according to a plurality of temporal resolutions; b) partitioning the input dataset to generate an image series of non-reconstructed image data, the image series having a selected temporal resolution; c) selecting an image subset from the image series; d) performing image reconstruction on the image subset, thereby obtaining a reconstructed image subset; e) processing the image subset to determine one or more image quality metrics; f) comparing the image quality metrics to pre-selected criteria associated with an estimated fidelity of a full reconstruction of the input dataset; g) in the event that the one or more image quality metrics do not satisfy the pre-selected criteria, adjusting the temporal resolution and repeating operations b) to f); and h) in the event that the one or more image quality metrics satisfy the pre-selected criteria, employing the current temporal resolution to perform full reconstruction on the input dataset.
2. The method according to claim 1 further comprising communicating a measure associated with an estimated temporal fidelity of the full reconstruction of the input dataset.
3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the input dataset is an undersampled image dataset, and such that reconstruction is performed according to a compressed sensing method.
4. The method according to claim 1 wherein at least one image quality metric is based on a Structural Similarity index.
5. The method according to claim 1 wherein one or more of the image quality metrics is generated based on a comparison with a reference image.
6. The method according to claim 5 wherein the reference image is generated by collapsing temporal frames of the input dataset into a single image.
7. The method according to claim 1 wherein when the one or more image quality metrics satisfy the pre-selected criteria, the following steps are performed one or more times in order to improve one or more of temporal fidelity and image quality prior to employing the current temporal resolution to perform full reconstruction on the input dataset: i) varying one or more reconstruction parameters; j) performing image reconstruction on the image subset, thereby obtaining the reconstructed image subset; k) processing the image subset to determine the one or more image quality metrics; and l) comparing the image quality metrics to the pre-selected criteria.
8. The method according to claim 1 wherein when the one or more image quality metrics do not satisfy the pre-selected criteria, the following operations are performed one or more times in order to improve one or more of temporal fidelity and image quality prior to adjusting the temporal resolution and repeating operations b) to f): i) varying one or more reconstruction parameters; j) performing image reconstruction on the image subset, thereby obtaining the reconstructed image subset; k) processing the image subset to determine the one or more image quality metrics; and l) comparing the image quality metrics to the pre-selected criteria.
9. A magnetic resonance imaging system comprising: a magnetic resonance imaging scanner; and control and processing hardware operatively coupled to said magnetic resonance imaging scanner, wherein said control and processing hardware comprises memory coupled with one or more processors to store instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: a) controlling said magnetic resonance imaging scanner to generate a sequence of RF pulses and detect RF signals that are responsively emitted by a subject positioned with a bore of said magnetic resonance imaging scanner, thereby obtaining an input dataset, wherein the sequence of RF pulses is selected to facilitate image reconstruction according to a plurality of temporal resolutions; b) partitioning the input dataset to generate an image series of non-reconstructed image data, the image series having a selected temporal resolution; c) selecting an image subset from the image series; d) performing image reconstruction on the image subset, thereby obtaining a reconstructed image subset; e) processing the image subset to determine one or more image quality metrics; f) comparing the image quality metrics to pre-selected criteria associated with an estimated fidelity of a full reconstruction of the input dataset; g) in the event that the one or more image quality metrics do not satisfy the pre-selected criteria, adjusting the temporal resolution and repeating operations b) to f); and h) in the event that the one or more image quality metrics satisfy the pre-selected criteria, employing the current temporal resolution to perform full reconstruction on the input dataset.
10. The system according to claim 9 wherein said control and processing hardware is configured to communicate a measure associated with an estimated temporal fidelity of the full reconstruction of the input dataset.
11. The system according to claim 9 wherein said control and processing hardware is configured such that the input dataset is an undersampled image dataset, and such that reconstruction is performed according to a compressed sensing method.
12. The system according to claim 9 wherein said control and processing hardware is configured such that at least one image quality metric is based on a Structural Similarity index.
13. The system according to claim 9 wherein said control and processing hardware is configured such that one or more of said image quality metrics is generated based on a comparison with a reference image.
14. The system according to claim 13 wherein said control and processing hardware is configured such that said reference image is generated by collapsing temporal frames of the input dataset into a single image.
15. The system according to claim 10 wherein said control and processing hardware is configured such that when the one or more image quality metrics satisfy the pre-selected criteria, the following operations are performed one or more times in order to improve one or more of temporal fidelity and image quality prior to employing the current temporal resolution to perform full reconstruction on the input dataset: i) varying one or more reconstruction parameters; j) performing image reconstruction on the image subset, thereby obtaining the reconstructed image subset; k) processing the image subset to determine the one or more image quality metrics; and l) comparing the image quality metrics to the pre-selected criteria.
16. The system according to claim 10 wherein said control and processing hardware is configured such that when the one or more image quality metrics do not satisfy the pre-selected criteria, the following operations are performed one or more times in order to improve one or more of temporal fidelity and image quality prior to adjusting the temporal resolution and repeating operations b) to f): i) varying one or more reconstruction parameters; j) performing image reconstruction on the image subset, thereby obtaining the reconstructed image subset; k) processing the image subset to determine the one or more image quality metrics; and l) comparing the image quality metrics to the pre-selected criteria.
17. A method of performing dynamic magnetic resonance imaging, the method comprising: a) controlling a magnetic resonance imaging scanner to generate a sequence of RF pulses and detect RF signals that are responsively emitted by a subject positioned with a bore of the magnetic resonance imaging scanner, thereby obtaining an input dataset, wherein the sequence of RF pulses is selected to facilitate image reconstruction according to a plurality of temporal resolutions; b) partitioning the input dataset to generate an image series of non-reconstructed image data, the image series having a selected temporal resolution; c) performing image reconstruction on the image series, thereby obtaining a set of reconstructed image frames; d) selecting an image subset of reconstructed image frames from the set of reconstructed image frames; e) processing the image subset to determine one or more image quality metrics; f) comparing the image quality metrics to pre-selected criteria associated with an estimated fidelity of a full reconstruction of the input dataset; g) in the event that the one or more image quality metrics do not satisfy the pre-selected criteria, adjusting the temporal resolution and repeating operations b) to f); and h) in the event that the one or more image quality metrics satisfy the pre-selected criteria, employing the current temporal resolution to perform full reconstruction on the input dataset.
18. A magnetic resonance imaging system comprising: a magnetic resonance imaging scanner; and control and processing hardware operatively coupled to said magnetic resonance imaging scanner, wherein said control and processing hardware comprises memory coupled with one or more processors to store instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: a) controlling said magnetic resonance imaging scanner to generate a sequence of RF pulses and detect RF signals that are responsively emitted by a subject positioned with a bore of said magnetic resonance imaging scanner, thereby obtaining an input dataset, wherein the sequence of RF pulses is selected to facilitate image reconstruction according to a plurality of temporal resolutions; b) partitioning the input dataset to generate an image series of non-reconstructed image data, the image series having a selected temporal resolution; c) performing image reconstruction on the image series, thereby obtaining a set of reconstructed image frames; d) selecting an image subset of reconstructed image frames from the set of reconstructed image frames; e) processing the image subset to determine one or more image quality metrics; f) comparing the image quality metrics to pre-selected criteria associated with an estimated fidelity of a full reconstruction of the input dataset; g) in the event that the one or more image quality metrics do not satisfy the pre-selected criteria, adjusting the temporal resolution and repeating operations b) to f); and h) in the event that the one or more image quality metrics satisfy the pre-selected criteria, employing the current temporal resolution to perform full reconstruction on the input dataset.
</claims>
</document>
