<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B13/02,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06F3/16,G06T7/70,H04R1/02,H04R1/04,H04R1/40,H04R3/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
YOON, CHIYUL
KIM, SHINGYU
KWAK, YONGSOO
CHUNG, EUNVIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70325353
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC DEVICE AND METHOD OF OPERATING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure relates to an electronic device (e.g., a mobile robot). An electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a speaker, a microphone, a substrate on which the speaker and the microphone are mounted, a spherical housing defining therein an inner space in which the speaker, the microphone, and the substrate are disposed, a support member configured to be in contact with and support an inner surface of the hosing on one side thereof, and a driver disposed in the inner space of the housing and including at least one power generation actuator and at least one wheel configured to rotate the housing by receiving power from the actuator, wherein the speaker is disposed adjacent to an another side of the support member opposite the one side of the support member, and outputs sound using oscillation of the surface of the housing. In addition, an electronic device according to various embodiments may be applied.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device comprising: a speaker; a microphone; a substrate on which the speaker and the microphone are mounted; a spherical housing defining therein an inner space in which the speaker, the microphone, and the substrate are disposed; a support member configured to be in contact with and support an inner surface of the spherical housing on one side thereof; and a driver disposed in the inner space of the spherical housing and including at least one power generation actuator and at least one wheel configured to rotate the spherical housing by receiving power from the least one power generation actuator, wherein the speaker is disposed adjacent to another side of the support member opposite the one side of the support member, which is in contact with the inner surface of the spherical housing, and configured to output sound using oscillation of the inner surface of the spherical housing.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the speaker is a vibration speaker, which is disposed adjacent to an upper end of the spherical housing in the inner space of the spherical housing, the vibration speaker being configured to transmit the oscillation to the inner surface of the spherical housing via the support member.
3. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the speaker is configured to be tiltable so as to be directed toward an external object disposed outside the electronic device.
4. The electronic device of claim 1, further comprising: an elastic body disposed between the speaker and the substrate.
5. The electronic device of claim 1, further comprising: an object detector; and at least one of a sensor configured to acquire information on an external object or a camera configured to capture an image of an outside of the electronic device.
6. The electronic device of claim 5, wherein at least a portion of the spherical housing comprises a transparent portion, and the transparent portion is formed to correspond to a position at which the object detector is disposed.
7. The electronic device of claim 6, wherein the spherical housing comprises two substantially opaque portions and the transparent portion having a strip shape and formed between the two substantially opaque portions, the transparent portion being formed to correspond to a portion in which the object detector is disposed.
8. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the spherical housing comprises: an outer housing configured to come into contact with a ground, and an inner housing positioned inside the outer housing and spaced apart from the outer housing by a predetermined distance.
9. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the spherical housing has openings for voice reception, which are formed at opposite sides thereof, respectively, and wherein the microphone is disposed on the substrate at a position corresponding to a position of each of the openings.
10. The electronic device of claim 9, wherein the openings at the opposite sides are formed to be parallel to a forward/reverse rotary shaft of the driver.
11. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein at least one microphone is provided on the substrate at each of positions corresponding to the openings at the opposite sides of the spherical housing, and a total of three or more microphones are provided on the substrate.
12. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the driver comprises a forward/reverse driver configured to rotate the spherical housing about a rotary shaft parallel to a ground on which the electronic device travels.
13. The electronic device of claim 12, wherein the driver further comprises a direction-converting driver configured to rotate the spherical housing about a rotary shaft perpendicular to the ground, or configured to tilt the spherical housing leftward or rightward.
14. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the support member comprises: a first support member configured to support the inner surface of the spherical housing at one side thereof and connected to the speaker at another side thereof, and a second support member configured to support the spherical housing in a direction substantially opposite a direction in which the first support member supports the spherical housing.
15. The electronic device of claim 1, further comprising: a processor configured to control, when receiving first input information, the driver to move the spherical housing to a position, which is newly designated in response to the received first input information; and configured to control, when receiving second input information, the speaker to be oriented in a first direction or a second direction different from the first direction in response to the received second input information.
16. An electronic device comprising: a speaker; an object detector; a microphone; a substrate on which the speaker, the object detector, and the microphone are mounted; a housing including a spherical outer housing defining therein an inner space in which the speaker, the object detector, the microphone, and the substrate are disposed, the spherical outer housing being configured to come into contact with a ground, and an inner housing disposed inside the spherical outer housing and spaced apart from the spherical outer housing by a predetermined distance; a first support member configured to come into contact with and support an inner surface of the housing at one side thereof and connected to the speaker at another side thereof; multiple second members configured to maintain the distance between the inner housing and the spherical outer housing constant; a forward/reverse driver including at least one power generation actuator and at least one wheel configured to drive the spherical outer housing by receiving power from the at least one power generation actuator; and a direction-converting driver configured to rotate the housing about a rotary shaft perpendicular to the ground, or configured to tilt the housing leftward and rightward, wherein the speaker outputs sound by causing the surface of the spherical outer housing to oscillate.
17. The electronic device of claim 16, wherein the speaker is configured to be tilted so as to be directed toward an external object disposed outside the electronic device.
18. The electronic device of claim 16, further comprising: an elastic body disposed between the speaker and the substrate.
19. The electronic device of claim 16, wherein the housing comprises two substantially opaque portions and a transparent portion having a strip shape and formed between the two substantially opaque portions, the transparent portion being formed to correspond to a portion in which the object detector is disposed.
20. The electronic device of claim 16, wherein at least one microphone is provided on the substrate at each of positions corresponding to openings at the opposite sides of the housing, and a total of three or more microphones are provided on the substrate.
</claims>
</document>
