<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G11C11/412,G11C11/417,H01L27/11,H01L49/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHEN, GREGORY
KNAG, PHIL
KRISHNAMURTHY, RAM
KUMAR, RAGHAVAN
MANIPATRUNI, SASIKANTH
MATHURIYA, AMRITA
SHARMA, ABHISHEK
SUMBUL, HUSEYIN EKIN
YOUNG, IAN, A.
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, GREGORY
KNAG, PHIL
KRISHNAMURTHY, RAM
KUMAR, RAGHAVAN
MANIPATRUNI, SASIKANTH
MATHURIYA, AMRITA
SHARMA, ABHISHEK
SUMBUL, HUSEYIN EKIN
YOUNG, IAN, A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69946052
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEMORY CELLS AND ARRAYS FOR COMPUTE IN MEMORY COMPUTATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments herein describe techniques for a semiconductor device including a memory cell. The memory cell includes a storage cell and a capacitor having a first electrode and a second electrode. The first electrode and the second electrode may be placed in a metal layer below a metal electrode coupled to one or more transistors of the storage cell. The storage cell is to store a digital value, where a voltage value of an output line of the storage cell is to be determined based on the digital value stored in the storage cell. The second electrode of the capacitor is coupled to the output line of the storage cell. The capacitor is to store a charge based on the voltage value of the output line of the storage cell. Other embodiments may be described and/or claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A semiconductor device, comprising: a memory cell including: a storage cell to store a digital value, wherein a voltage value of an output line of the storage cell is to be determined based on the digital value stored in the storage cell; and a capacitor having a first electrode and a second electrode, the second electrode coupled to the output line of the storage cell, wherein the capacitor is to store a charge based on the voltage value of the output line of the storage cell, and the first electrode and the second electrode are placed in a metal layer below a metal electrode coupled to one or more transistors of the storage cell.
2. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the first electrode or the second electrode of the capacitor includes germanium (Ge), cobalt (Co), titanium (Ti), tungsten (W), molybdenum (Mo), gold (Au), platinum (Pt), aluminum (Al), nickel (Ni), copper (Cu), chromium (Cr), hafnium (Hf), indium (In), ruthenium (Ru), iridium (Ir), tantalum (Ta), or an alloy of Ti, W, Mo, Au, Pt, Al, Ni, Cu, Cr, Hf, HfAlN, iridium-tantalum alloy (Ir—Ta), indium-tin oxide (ITO), TaN, TiN, TiAlN, TiW, or InAlO.
3. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the capacitor includes a dielectric material with a dielectric constant higher than 10, the dielectric material is between the first electrode and the second electrode of the capacitor.
4. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the first electrode and the second electrode of the capacitor are placed below a third metal layer.
5. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are placed in a dielectric layer between two metal layers and below a metal layer for a ground voltage, and the first electrode of the capacitor is coupled to the ground voltage.
6. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the storage cell further includes a first input line and a second input line, the first input line controls to write the digital value of the second input line into the storage cell.
7. The semiconductor device of claim 6, wherein the storage cell includes a static random-access memory (SRAM) cell with 8 transistors, a SRAM cell with 6 transistors, a SRAM cell with 4 transistors, or a SRAM cell with 2 transistors.
8. The semiconductor device of claim 6, wherein the memory cell is a part of an integrated circuit for a machine learning classifier or dot-product of two vectors.
9. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the output line of the storage cell is to have a first voltage value when the storage cell stores a digital 0, or a second voltage value when the storage cell stores a digital 1.
10. The semiconductor device of claim 1, further comprising: a selector, wherein an input line of the selector is coupled to the second electrode of the capacitor, and an output line of the selector is to have a voltage value when the selector is active, the voltage value of the output line of the selector is to be determined based on the charge stored in the capacitor.
11. The semiconductor device of claim 10, wherein the selector is a first selector, and the memory cell further includes a second selector with an input line, a control line, and an output line, the input line of the second selector is coupled to the output line of the storage cell, the output line of the second selector is coupled to the second electrode of the capacitor, and wherein when the second selector is active based on the control line of the second selector, the charge value of the capacitor is to be determined based on the voltage value of the output line of the storage cell.
12. The semiconductor device of claim 11, wherein the voltage value of the output line of the storage cell is determined by a first bit, and the control line of the second selector represents a second bit, and the output line of the second selector is determined based on a product of the first bit and the second bit.
13. The semiconductor device of claim 11, wherein the first selector or the second selector is a pass transistor.
14. The semiconductor device of claim 13, wherein the first selector or the second selector is a NMOS pass transistor or a PMOS pass transistor.
15. A semiconductor device, comprising: a first memory cell including: a first storage cell to store a first digital value; a first capacitor coupled to the first storage cell to have a first charge and a first voltage value, wherein the first charge and the first voltage value are determined based at least on the first digital value; and a first selector, wherein an input line of the first selector is coupled to an electrode of the first capacitor, an output line of the first selector is coupled to a common output, and a first control line is to control the first selector to be active; and a second memory cell including: a second storage cell to store a second digital value; a second capacitor coupled to the second storage cell to have a second charge and a second voltage value, wherein the second charge and the second voltage value are determined based at least on the second digital value; and a second selector, wherein an input line of the second selector is coupled to an electrode of the second capacitor, an output line of the second selector is coupled to the common output, and a second control line is to control the second selector to be active; and wherein the first selector and the second selector share a same control signal for the first control line and the second control line, the first capacitor and the second capacitor have a substantially same capacitance, and a voltage value of the common output is an average voltage value of the first voltage value of the first capacitor and the second voltage value of the second capacitor.
16. The semiconductor device of claim 15, further comprising: an analog-to-digital (A/D) converter coupled to the common output to produce a digital output based on the average voltage value, wherein the digital output is an average of the first digital value and the second digital value.
17. The semiconductor device of claim 16, further comprising: a scaler coupled to the A/D converter to produce a sum of the first digital value and the second digital value based on the average of the first digital value and the second digital value.
18. The semiconductor device of claim 15, wherein the first memory cell further includes an additional selector of the first memory cell coupled to the first storage cell and the first capacitor, the additional selector of the first memory cell has a control input controlled by a third digit value, and the first charge and the first voltage value of the first capacitor are determined based at least on a first product of the first digital value and the third digit value; the second memory cell further includes an additional selector of the second memory cell coupled to the second storage cell and the second capacitor, the additional selector of the second memory cell has a control input controlled by a fourth digit value, and the second charge and the second voltage value of the second capacitor are determined based at least on a second product of the second digital value and the fourth digit value; and the voltage value of the common output is an average voltage value of the first voltage value of the first capacitor determined based at least on the first product and the second voltage value of the second capacitor determined based at least on the second product.
19. The semiconductor device of claim 15, further comprising: one or more additional memory cells, wherein a memory cell of the one or more additional memory cells includes: a storage cell to store a digital value of the memory cell; a capacitor coupled to the storage cell to have a charge and a voltage value, wherein the charge and the voltage value of the capacitor are determined based at least on the digital value of the memory cell; and a selector, wherein an input line of the selector is coupled to an electrode of the capacitor, an output line of the selector is coupled to the common output, and a control line is to control the selector to be active; and wherein the capacitor, the first capacitor, and the second capacitor have the substantially same capacitance; the selector, the first selector, and the second selector share the same control signal for the control line, the first control line, and the second control line; the voltage value of the common output is an average voltage value of the first voltage value of the first capacitor, the second voltage value of the second capacitor, and the voltage value of the capacitor of the memory cell for the one or more memory cells.
20. The semiconductor device of claim 19, wherein the first memory cell further includes an additional selector of the first memory cell coupled to the first storage cell and the first capacitor, the additional selector of the first memory cell has a control input controlled by a third digit value, and the first charge and the first voltage value of the first capacitor are determined based at least on a first product of the first digital value and the third digit value; the second memory cell further includes an additional selector of the second memory cell coupled to the second storage cell and the second capacitor, the additional selector of the second memory cell has a control input controlled by a fourth digit value, and the second charge and the second voltage value of the second capacitor are determined based at least on a second product of the second digital value and the fourth digit value; and the memory cell of the one or more additional memory cells further includes an additional selector of the memory cell coupled to the storage cell and the capacitor of the memory cell, the additional selector of the memory cell has a control input controlled by an additional digit value of the memory cell, and the charge and the voltage value of the capacitor are determined based at least on an additional product of the digital value of the memory cell and the additional digit value of the memory cell; and the voltage value of the common output is an average voltage value of the first voltage value of the first capacitor determined based on the first product, the second voltage value of the second capacitor determined based on the second product, and the voltage value of the capacitor of the memory cell determined based on the additional product of the one or more memory cells.
21. The semiconductor device of claim 20, further comprising: an analog-to-digital (A/D) converter coupled to the common output to produce a digital output, wherein the digital output is an average of the first product, the second product, and the additional product of the one or more memory cells; and a scaler coupled to the A/D converter to produce a sum of the first product, the second product, and the additional product of the one or more memory cells.
22. The semiconductor device of claim 20, wherein the semiconductor device is a part of a computing device selected from the group consisting of a wearable device or a mobile computing device, the wearable device or the mobile computing device including one or more of an antenna, a touchscreen controller, a display, a battery, a processor, an audio codec, a video codec, a power amplifier, a global positioning system (GPS) device, a compass, a Geiger counter, an accelerometer, a gyroscope, a speaker, and a camera coupled with the memory device.
23. A method for forming a semiconductor device, comprising: forming one or more transistors on a substrate for a memory cell to store a digital value into a storage cell of the memory cell; forming a capacitor having a first electrode, a second electrode, and a dielectric material between the first electrode and the second electrode, the second electrode coupled to an output line of the storage cell, wherein the capacitor is to store a charge based on the digital value stored in the storage cell; and forming a metal electrode coupled to the one or more transistors of the memory cell, wherein the metal electrode is in a metal layer above the first electrode and the second electrode of the capacitor.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the first electrode and the second electrode of the capacitor are placed below a third metal layer, or placed in a dielectric layer between two metal electrodes of the storage cell, or below a metal layer for a ground.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein a dielectric constant of the dielectric material is higher than 10.
</claims>
</document>
