<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/00,H04L12/58,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARKINSON, JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72832087
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Unsubscribe Automation
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, computer-readable media, software, and apparatuses may assist a consumer in unsubscribing to unwanted mailing list traffic and email based relationships. A consumer's discovered accounts and subscriptions may be listed and displayed to the consumer. For each identified account or subscription, the unsubscribe method may be determined and automated for the consumer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a processor; a memory unit storing computer-executable instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the apparatus to: determine, for a plurality of items of email correspondence, a likelihood that each item of email correspondence represents an account or subscription of a consumer, based on the determined likelihood that each item of email correspondence represents an account or subscription of the consumer, generate a list of accounts and subscriptions associated with the consumer; determine for each account and subscription an unsubscribe action; generate a revised list of accounts and subscriptions including the determined unsubscribe action for each account and subscription; determine that at least one account or subscription is stale by determining that a period of time since a most recent item of email correspondence with the at least one account or subscription exceeds a pre-determined threshold; and based on the at least one account or subscription being stale, recommend closing the at least one account or subscription.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the unsubscribe action comprises a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) and at least one unsubscribe dialog parameter.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the at least one unsubscribe dialog parameter comprises an email address of the consumer.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the computer-executable instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the apparatus to: receive an indication to unsubscribe to one or more accounts; retrieve an unsubscribe process for each of the one or more accounts from the revised list of accounts and subscriptions; and initiate the retrieved unsubscribe process for each of the one or more accounts.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the computer-executable instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the apparatus to; transmit a report to the consumer upon successful completion of the unsubscribe process for the one or more accounts; and generate a log record of an outcome of the unsubscribe process for each of the one or more accounts.
6. (canceled)
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the computer-executable instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the apparatus to: identify a source of a second account or subscription; and based on the identified source, recommend closing the second account or subscription.
8. A method comprising: determining, for a plurality of items of email correspondence, a likelihood that each item of email correspondence represents an account or subscription of a consumer; based on the determined likelihood that each item of email correspondence represents an account or subscription of the consumer, generating a list of accounts and subscriptions associated with the consumer; determining for each account and subscription an unsubscribe action; generating a revised list of accounts and subscriptions including the determined unsubscribe action for each account and subscription; determining that at least one account or subscription is stale by determining that a period of time since a most recent item of email correspondence with the at least one account or subscription exceeds a pre-determined threshold; and based on the at least one account or subscription being stale, recommending closing the at least one account or subscription.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the unsubscribe action comprises a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) and at least one unsubscribe dialog parameter.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the at least one unsubscribe dialog parameter comprises an email address of the consumer.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising: receiving an indication to unsubscribe to one or more accounts; retrieving an unsubscribe process for each of the one or more accounts from the revised list of accounts and subscriptions, and initiating the retrieved unsubscribe process for each of the one or more accounts.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: transmitting a report to the consumer upon successful completion of the unsubscribe process for the one or more accounts; and generating a log record of an outcome of the unsubscribe process for each of the one or more accounts.
13. (canceled)
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising: identifying a source of a second account or subscription; and based on the identified source, recommend closing the second account or subscription.
15. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by a computing device, cause the computing device to: determine, for a plurality of items of email correspondence, a likelihood that each item of email correspondence represents an account or subscription of a consumer; based on the determined likelihood that each item of email correspondence represents an account or subscription of the consumer, generate a list of accounts and subscriptions associated with the consumer; determine for each account and subscription an unsubscribe action; and generate a revised list of accounts and subscriptions including the determined unsubscribe action for each account and subscription, determine that at least one account or subscription is stale by determining that a period of time since a most recent item of email correspondence with the at least one account or subscription exceeds a pre-determined threshold; and based on the at least one account or subscription being stale, recommend closing the at least one account or subscription.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein the unsubscribe action comprises a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) and at least one unsubscribe dialog parameter.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 16, wherein the at least one unsubscribe dialog parameter comprises an email address of the consumer.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, storing further instructions that, when executed by the computing device, cause the computing device to: receive an indication to unsubscribe to one or more accounts; retrieve an unsubscribe process for each of the one or more accounts from the revised list of accounts and subscriptions; and initiate the retrieved unsubscribe process for each of the one or more accounts.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 18, storing further instructions that, when executed by the computing device, cause the computing device to transmit a report to the consumer upon successful completion of the unsubscribe process for the one or more accounts, and generate a log record of an outcome of the unsubscribe process associated for each of the one or more accounts.
20. (canceled)
21. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the computer-executable instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the apparatus to determine for each account and subscription the unsubscribe action, by causing the apparatus to: determine the URL, based on an analysis of a privacy policy associated with a website corresponding to an account or subscription.
22. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining the URL by analyzing a privacy policy associated with a website corresponding to an account or subscription.
23. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 16, wherein the instructions, when executed by the computing device, cause the computing device to determine for each account and subscription the unsubscribe action, by causing the computing device to determine the URL, based on an analysis of a privacy policy associated with a website corresponding to an account or subscription.
</claims>
</document>
