<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/60,G06F21/74,G06K19/07,G06K7/10,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,H04B7/0413,H04L29/06,H04L9/08,H04W12/00,H04W12/06,H04W4/029,H04W4/14,H04W4/80,H04W8/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CULVERT-IOT CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
PANCHALAN, PRASAD
BOLING, EDWARD, JOHN
VIDAL, ALBERTO
FARRELL, EDWARD MAURICE
KAWAGUCHI, DEAN MAMORU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68697247
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Intelligent tracking system and methods and systems therefor
</title>

<abstract>
An intelligent tracking system generally includes one or more tracking devices, some of which may be passive tracking devices. Each passive tracking device includes one or more transceivers and is energized by an energizing signal. Some of these passive tracking devices may operate in a first communication mode or a second communication mode based on the energizing signal. Some tracking devices may include encryption modules or authentication modules. Some of these devices may incorporate a bulk acoustic wave oscillator.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A passive tracking device comprising: a first antenna that transmits response signals in a first frequency band; a second antenna that receives energizing signals in a second frequency band; an energy harvesting module that receives an energizing signal from a remote device via the second antenna and converts the energizing signal from RF electrical energy to DC electrical energy that energizes the passive tracking device; a transmission module that modulates a response signal for transmission in the first frequency band and outputs the modulated response signal to the first antenna for transmission in accordance with a communication protocol, wherein the response signal includes a message indicating a device identifier of the passive tracking device; and a sensor module including one or more sensors, wherein, in response to being energized by the energy harvesting module, the sensor module outputs sensor data generated by the one or more sensors to the transmission module and the transmission module includes at least a portion of the sensor data in the modulated response signal for transmission via the first antenna.
2. The passive tracking device of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors includes one or more of a temperature sensor, a light sensor, a sound sensor, a humidity sensor, a motion sensor, a shock sensor, and an acceleration sensor.
3. The passive tracking device of claim 1, wherein the transmission module includes at least a portion of the sensor data in the modulated response signal when a value of the sensor data satisfies a predefined condition.
4. The passive tracking device of claim 3, wherein the transmission module includes a temperature value obtained from a temperature sensor in the modulated response signal when the temperature value exceeds an upper threshold.
5. The passive tracking device of claim 3, wherein the transmission module includes a temperature value obtained from a temperature sensor in the modulated response signal when the temperature value is less than a lower threshold.
6. The passive tracking device of claim 3, wherein the transmission module includes sensor data generated by the one or more sensors in the modulated response signal when a value of the sensor data has met and/or exceeded a threshold.
7. The passive tracking device of claim 3, wherein the transmission module refrains from including the sensor data in the response signal when the predefined condition is not satisfied by the sensor data.
8. The passive tracking device of claim 1, wherein the transmission module is a first transmission module, the response signals are first response signals, the energizing signals are first energizing signals, the communication protocol is a first communication protocol, the message is a first message, and the device identifier is a first device identifier.
9. The passive tracking device of claim 8, wherein: the first transmission module modulates the first response signal and outputs the modulated response signal to the first transmission module when the passive tracking device operates in a first mode; and the sensor module outputs sensor data to the first transmission module when the passive tracking device operates in the first mode.
10. The passive tracking device of claim 9, further comprising: a third antenna that both transmits second response signals and receives second energizing signals in a third frequency band; a second transmission module that prepares a second response signal for transmission in the third frequency band and facilitates transmission of the prepared second response signals by toggling impedance of the third antenna when the passive tracking device operates in a second mode in accordance with a second communication protocol, and wherein the second response signal includes a second message indicating a second device identifier of the passive tracking device; and a mode selection module that determines whether the passive tracking device is to operate in the first mode or the second mode based on a received energizing signal from a remote device via the second antenna and/or the third antenna;
11. The passive tracking device of claim 10, wherein: the first communication protocol is one of a Bluetooth, Bluetooth Low Energy, or Wi-Fi communication protocol; the first frequency band is suitable for carrying signals in accordance with the one of Bluetooth, Bluetooth Low Energy, or Wi-Fi communication protocol; the second frequency band is equal to the first frequency band; the second communication protocol is an RFID communication protocol; and the third frequency band is suitable for carrying signals in accordance with the RFID communication protocol.
12. The passive tracking device of claim 11, wherein the first frequency band and the second frequency band are substantially equal to 2.4 GHz and the third frequency band is substantially equal to 900 MHz.
13. The passive tracking device of claim 11, wherein the second communication protocol is an EPC UHF RFID communication protocol.
14. The passive tracking device of claim 10, wherein the passive tracking device modulates and transmits the first response signals according to one of a Bluetooth communication protocol, a Bluetooth Low Energy communication protocol, and a Wi-Fi communication protocol while operating in the first mode, and prepares and transmits the second response signals according to an RFID communication protocol while operating in the second mode.
15. The passive tracking device of claim 14, wherein the mode selection module determines to modulate and transmit the first response signals according to the Bluetooth Low Energy protocol as a default, unless the energizing signal is received on the third frequency band and contains a recognized RFID command.
16. The passive tracking device of claim 10, wherein the mode selection module determines that the passive tracking device is to operate in the first mode in response to receiving energizing signals in the second frequency band via the second antenna.
17. The passive tracking device of claim 10, wherein the mode selection module determines that the passive tracking device is to operate in the first mode in response to determining that the energizing signal received does not contain an RFID header or command.
18. The passive tracking device of claim 17, wherein the first mode selection module determines that the passive tracking device is to operate in the first mode in response to determining that the energizing signal received does not contain an EPC UHF RFID header or command.
19. The passive tracking device of claim 10, wherein the first transmission module determines when the passive tracking device is to transmit the modulated first response signal based on an amount of energy stored by the passive tracking device.
20. The passive tracking device of claim 19, wherein the first transmission module determines that the passive tracking device is to transmit the modulated first response signal substantially immediately when the amount of energy stored by the passive tracking device exceeds a first power threshold.
21. The passive tracking device of claim 19, wherein the first transmission module determines that the passive tracking device is to transmit the modulated first response signal after a delay when the amount of energy stored by the passive tracking device exceeds a second power threshold and is less than the first power threshold, the second power threshold being less than the first power threshold.
22. The passive tracking device of claim 21, wherein the first power threshold is 0 dBm and the second power threshold is −20 dBm.
23. The passive tracking device of claim 10, wherein the mode selection module determines that the passive tracking device is to operate in the second mode in response to receiving energizing signals in the third frequency band via the third antenna.
24. The passive tracking device of claim 10, wherein the mode selection module determines that the passive tracking device is to operate in the second mode based on contents of the energizing signal.
25. The passive tracking device of claim 24, wherein the mode selection module determines that the passive tracking device is to operate in the second mode in response to determining that the energizing signal includes an RFID-formatted header.
26. The passive tracking device of claim 24, wherein the mode selection module determines that the passive tracking device is to operate in the second mode in response to the energizing signals received containing a complete RFID-formatted message.
27. The passive tracking device of claim 10, wherein the first mode is a default mode of transmission and the second mode is selected by the mode selection module in response to: receiving the energizing signal in the third frequency band via the third antenna; and the energizing signal containing an RFID-formatted header and a complete RFID-formatted message containing an EPC command.
28. The passive tracking device of claim 10, wherein the energy harvesting module outputs the DC electrical energy to one or more of first and second transmission modules and the mode selection module.
29. The passive tracking device of claim 10, wherein the first device identifier and the second device identifier are the same.
30. The passive tracking device of claim 1, wherein the sensor module includes a bulk acoustic wave temperature sensor.
31. The passive tracking device of claim 1, wherein the transmission module includes a reference oscillator that is a bulk acoustic wave oscillator.
</claims>
</document>
