<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/06,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HONDA MOTOR COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
NOGUCHI, JUNPEI
SUGIHARA, CHIE
TAGUCHI, RYOMA
TAKADA, YUTA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72607249
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VEHICLE CONTROL DEVICE, VEHICLE MANAGEMENT DEVICE, VEHICLE CONTROL METHOD, VEHICLE MANAGEMENT METHOD, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicle control device mountable in a vehicle includes a predicted time calculator configured to calculate a predicted time required for automated parking of the vehicle at a parking position and a transmitter configured to transmit information regarding the predicted time calculated by the predicted time calculator to a vehicle management device for managing parking of the vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicle control device mountable in a vehicle, the vehicle control device comprising: a predicted time calculator configured to calculate a predicted time required for automated parking of the vehicle at a parking position; and a transmitter configured to transmit information regarding the predicted time calculated by the predicted time calculator to a vehicle management device for managing parking of the vehicle.
2. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, wherein the predicted time calculator is configured to calculate the predicted time which is a predicted value of a time necessary to stop at a parking position after the vehicle reaches the parking position and starts a parking operation.
3. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, further comprising: a recognizer configured to recognize surrounding information of the vehicle, wherein the predicted time calculator is configured to calculate the predicted time according to the surrounding information recognized by the recognizer.
4. The vehicle control device according to claim 3, wherein the predicted time calculator is configured to calculate the predicted time, the predicted time in a case in which the surrounding information indicates presence of a factor that has an influence on the automated parking being longer than the predicted time in a case in which the surrounding information does not indicate presence of the factor.
5. The vehicle control device according to claim 3, wherein the predicted time calculator is configured to calculate the predicted time, the predicted time in a case in which there is another vehicle near the parking position of the vehicle being longer than the predicted time in a case in which there is no another vehicle near the parking position.
6. The vehicle control device according to claim 3, wherein the predicted time calculator is configured to calculate the predicted time according to a period of time in which the vehicle performs the automated parking.
7. The vehicle control device according to claim 3, wherein the predicted time calculator is configured to calculate the predicted time according to brightness or weather of the parking position of the vehicle.
8. A vehicle management device for managing parking of a vehicle, the vehicle management device comprising: a communicator configured to transmit information regarding a parking position to the vehicle and to receive information regarding a predicted time required for automated parking of the vehicle at the parking position from the vehicle; a determiner configured to determine whether it is necessary to change the parking position according to the predicted time received by the communicator and a target time required for the automated parking; and a parking controller configured to change the parking position and to cause the communicator to transmit information regarding the changed parking position in a case in which the determiner determines that it is necessary to change the parking position.
9. The vehicle management device according to claim 8, wherein the determiner is configured to determine that it is necessary to change the parking position in a case in which a separation between the predicted time and the target time is equal to or greater than a predetermined time.
10. The vehicle management device according to claim 8, wherein the communicator is configured to transmit the target time to the vehicle.
11. The vehicle management device according to claim 8, further comprising: a target time calculator configured to calculate the target time according to a past parking result of the vehicle.
12. The vehicle management device according to claim 11, wherein the target time calculator is configured to calculate an average value of past times required for parking of the vehicle as the target time.
13. The vehicle management device according to claim 11, wherein the target time calculator is configured to calculate the target time according to a type of another vehicle stopping at another parking position adjacent to the parking position.
14. The vehicle management device according to claim 8, wherein the communicator is configured to receive surrounding information of the vehicle from the vehicle, and wherein the determiner is configured to determine that it is necessary to change the parking position in a case in which the surrounding information indicates that there is another vehicle behind the vehicle.
15. The vehicle management device according to claim 14, wherein the parking controller is configured to change the parking position to another parking position located in a travel direction of the vehicle.
16. The vehicle management device according to claim 8, wherein the parking controller is configured to perform control not to set the parking position associated with the predicted time as a parking position of another subsequent vehicle in a case in which the predicted time received by the communicator is greater than a predetermined threshold.
17. A vehicle control method using a computer of a vehicle control device mountable in a vehicle, the vehicle control method comprising: calculating a predicted time required for automated parking of the vehicle at a parking position; and transmitting information regarding the calculated predicted time to a vehicle management device for managing parking of the vehicle.
18. A vehicle management method using a computer of a vehicle management device for managing parking of a vehicle, the vehicle management method comprising: transmitting information regarding a parking position to the vehicle and receiving information regarding a predicted time required for automated parking of the vehicle at the parking position from the vehicle; determining whether it is necessary to change the parking position according to the received predicted time and a target time required for the automated parking; and changing the parking position and transmitting information regarding the changed parking position in a case in which it is determined that it is necessary to change the parking position.
19. A computer-readable non-transitory storage medium that stores a program causing a computer of a vehicle control device mountable in a vehicle: to calculate a predicted time required for automated parking of the vehicle at a parking position; and to transmit information regarding the calculated predicted time to a vehicle management device for managing parking of the vehicle.
20. A computer-readable non-transitory storage medium that stores a program causing a computer of a vehicle management device for managing parking of a vehicle: to transmit information regarding a parking position to the vehicle and to receive information regarding a predicted time required for automated parking of the vehicle at the parking position from the vehicle; to determine whether it is necessary to change the parking position according to the received predicted time and a target time required for the automated parking; and to change the parking position and to transmit information regarding the changed parking position in a case in which it is determined that it is necessary to change the parking position.
</claims>
</document>
