<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/02,A61B5/107,G01B3/1003,G01B3/1084,G16H20/30,G16H50/20,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALI, ABBAS S.
NAQVI, SYED R.
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALI, ABBAS S.
NAQVI, SYED R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63245455
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS, METHODS, AND APPARATUSES FOR PERIPHERAL ARTERIAL DISEASE DETECTION AND MITIGATION THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments described herein are directed to non-invasive detection of peripheral arterial disease. For example, a measuring apparatus is used to measure a patient's calf circumference. The measuring apparatus has text feature(s) or indicator(s) printed thereupon that indicate the likelihood that the patient has peripheral arterial disease based on the measured calf circumference. The assessment may be further refined by using a software application that assesses the likelihood of the patient having peripheral arterial disease using at least the calf circumference measurement, along with other information/data. Based on the assessment, a healthcare practitioner may prescribe a walking program for the patient to follow. A software application may track compliance of the walking program and provide escalating reminders to the patient if the patient continues to fail to comply with the prescribed walking program.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by a computer associated with a healthcare practitioner to determine compliance of a walking program prescribed by the healthcare practitioner, comprising: receiving, via a network, first sensor data from a mobile device that indicates a first number of steps a patient has taken within a predetermined time period; determining that the first number of steps the patient has taken within the predetermined time period is not in compliance with the walking program prescribed by the healthcare practitioner; and transmitting, via the network, a first message having a first severity to a device associated with the patient indicating that the patient did not comply with the prescribed walking program.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the device is the mobile device.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the device is a computing device associated with the patient that is different than the mobile device.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the prescribed walking program is further based on a distance that the patient is able to walk within the predetermined time period.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, via the network, second sensor data from the mobile device that indicates a second number of steps the patient has taken within the predetermined time period; determining that the second number of steps the patient has taken within the predetermined time period is not in compliance with the walking program prescribed by the healthcare practitioner; transmitting, via the network, a second message having a second severity that is greater than the first severity to the device associated with the patient indicating that the patient did not comply with the prescribed walking program.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first message is configured to be displayed via an application executing on the device associated with the patient.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the second message is a text message.
8. A system, comprising: at least one processor circuit; and at least one memory that stores program code configured to be executed by the at least one processor circuit, the program code comprising: a receiver configured to receive, via a network, first sensor data from a mobile device that indicates a first number of steps a patient has taken within a predetermined time period; a compliance determiner configured to determine that the first number of steps the patient has taken within the predetermined time period is not in compliance with a walking program prescribed by a healthcare practitioner; a transmitter configured to transmit, via the network, a first message having a first severity to a device associated with the patient indicating that the patient did not comply with the prescribed walking program.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the device is the mobile device.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the device is a computing device associated with the patient that is different than the mobile device.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the prescribed walking program is based on a distance that the patient is able to walk within the predetermined time period.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the receiver is further configured to receive, via the network, second sensor data from the mobile device that indicates a second number of steps the patient has taken within the predetermined time period, wherein the compliance determiner is further configured to determine that the second number of steps the patient has taken within the predetermined time period is not in compliance with the walking program prescribed by the healthcare practitioner, and wherein the transmitter is further configured to transmit, via the network, a second message having a second severity that is greater than the first severity to the device associated with the patient indicating that the patient did not comply with the prescribed walking program.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the first message is displayed via an application executing on the device associated with the patient.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the second message is a text message.
15. A computer-readable storage medium having program instructions recorded thereon that, when executed by at least one processor, perform a method to determine compliance of a walking program prescribed by a healthcare practitioner, the method comprising: receiving, via a network, first sensor data from a mobile device that indicates a first number of steps a patient has taken within a predetermined time period; determining that the first number of steps the patient has taken within the predetermined time period is not in compliance with the walking program prescribed by the healthcare practitioner; and transmitting, via the network, a first message having a first severity to a device associated with the patient indicating that the patient did not comply with the prescribed walking program.
16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the device is the mobile device.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the device is a computing device associated with the patient that is different than the mobile device.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the prescribed walking program is further based on a distance that the patient is able to walk within the predetermined time period.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, the method further comprising: receiving, via the network, second sensor data from the mobile device that indicates a second number of steps the patient has taken within the predetermined time period; determining that the second number of steps the patient has taken within the predetermined time period is not in compliance with the walking program prescribed by the healthcare practitioner; transmitting, via the network, a second message having a second severity that is greater than the first severity to the device associated with the patient indicating that the patient did not comply with the prescribed walking program.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the first message is configured to be displayed via an application executing on the device associated with the patient.
</claims>
</document>
