<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/107,A61B5/12,H04R25/00,H04R29/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Pietrobon, Jonathan Mark
</assignee>

<inventors>
Pietrobon, Jonathan Mark
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72516232
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROBE INSERTION METHODS AND APPARATUS
</title>

<abstract>
A probe insertion apparatus for real ear measurement includes a probe tube, a reference microphone, a reference speaker, an operator feedback device, a memory, and a processor. The processor is configured to direct the reference speaker to continuously emit reference sound, continuously receive reference signals from the reference microphone and tympanic reflection signals from the measurement microphone, and continuously make determinations of a tympanic distance between the sound receiving end of the probe tube and a tympanic membrane based on the reference and tympanic reflection signals and absent reference to a calibration measurement, as the operator moves the sound receiving end towards the tympanic membrane. The processor is also configured to automatically direct the operator feedback device to provide indicia of the tympanic distance between the sound receiving end of the probe tube and a tympanic membrane, as the operator moves the sound receiving end towards the tympanic membrane.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A probe insertion apparatus for real ear measurement, the apparatus comprising: a probe tube having a sound receiving end positionable in an ear canal, and a sound output end sonically coupled to a measurement microphone; a reference microphone positionable outside the ear canal; a reference speaker positionable to emit reference sound towards the ear canal; an operator feedback device; a memory storing computer readable instructions; and a processor configured to execute the computer readable instructions, wherein the computer readable instructions when executed configure the processor to: direct the reference speaker to continuously emit the reference sound, continuously receive reference signals from the reference microphone, and tympanic reflection signals from the measurement microphone, continuously make determinations of a tympanic distance between the sound receiving end of the probe tube and a tympanic membrane based on the reference signals and the tympanic reflection signals and absent reference to a calibration measurement, as the operator moves the sound receiving end towards the tympanic membrane, and automatically direct the operator feedback device to provide indicia of the tympanic distance between the sound receiving end of the probe tube and a tympanic membrane, as the operator moves the sound receiving end towards the tympanic membrane.
2. The probe insertion apparatus of claim 1, wherein: each determination of the tympanic distance is based solely on the reference and tympanic reflections signals.
3. The probe insertion apparatus of claim 1, wherein: each determination of the tympanic distance is based on current reference and tympanic reflection signals as well as reference and tympanic reflection signals used to determine a previous tympanic distance.
4. The probe insertion apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the memory stores a neural network model, and said continuously making determinations of the tympanic distance comprises continuously supplying the neural network model with inputs based on the received reference and tympanic reflection signals, and continuously receiving from the neural network model outputs corresponding to determined tympanic distances.
5. The probe insertion apparatus of claim 4, wherein: the neural network model is a recurrent neural network model.
6. The probe insertion apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the indicia comprise visual indicia.
7. The probe insertion apparatus of claim 6, wherein: the operator feedback device comprises a display that provides the visual indicia.
8. The probe insertion apparatus of claim 7, wherein: the visual indicia identify the determined tympanic distance.
9. The probe insertion apparatus of claim 7, wherein: the display presents a graphical representation of an ear canal and an indicator positioned with respect to the graphical representation to indicate the tympanic distance.
10. The probe insertion apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the indicia comprise one or more of auditory and haptic indicia.
11. The probe insertion apparatus of claim 10, wherein: the operator feedback device comprises a notification speaker that emits auditory indicia, and the notification speaker and reference speaker emit sound in different directions.
12. The probe insertion apparatus of claim 10, wherein: the operator feedback device comprises the reference speaker, that when activated outputs the auditory indicia composed of feedback sound frequencies lower than the reference sound.
13. The probe insertion apparatus of claim 1, wherein the computer readable instructions when executed further configure the processor to: detect a blockage of the probe tube in the ear canal based on a volume characteristic of the tympanic reflection signals.
14. The probe insertion apparatus of claim 1, wherein the computer readable instructions when executed further configure the processor to: detect a blockage of the probe tube in the ear canal based on a volume characteristic of the tympanic reflection signals being indicative of (a) a reflection volume below a threshold volume and (b) the reflection volume being less than a reference volume by a threshold volume difference.
15. The probe insertion apparatus of claim 14, wherein: the volume characteristic, the reflection volume, and the reference volume only relate to sound frequencies of 500 Hz or less.
16. The probe insertion apparatus of claim 13, wherein the computer readable instructions when executed further configure the processor to: automatically direct the operator feedback device to provide an indicium of the blockage in response to detecting the blockage.
17. A probe insertion apparatus for real ear measurement, the apparatus comprising: a measurement microphone input; a reference microphone input; a reference speaker output; an operator feedback device output; a memory storing computer readable instructions; and a processor configured to execute the computer readable instructions, wherein the computer readable instructions when executed configure the processor to: send directions to the reference speaker output to continuously emit a reference sound, continuously receive reference signals from the reference microphone input, and tympanic reflection signals from the measurement microphone input, continuously make determinations of a tympanic probe distance based on the reference signals and the tympanic reflection signals and absent reference to a calibration measurement, and automatically send directions to the operator feedback device output to provide indicia of the tympanic probe distance between the sound receiving end of the probe tube and a tympanic membrane.
18. A probe insertion apparatus for real ear measurement, the apparatus comprising: a probe tube having a sound receiving end positionable in an ear canal, and a sound output end sonically coupled to a measurement microphone; a reference microphone positionable outside the ear canal; a reference speaker positionable to emit reference sound towards the ear canal; an operator feedback device; a memory storing computer readable instructions and a neural network model; and a processor configured to execute the computer readable instructions, wherein the computer readable instructions when executed configure the processor to: direct the reference speaker to continuously emit the reference sound, and automatically perform several iterations of: receiving reference signals from the reference microphone, and tympanic reflection signals from the measurement microphone, determining, one or many times, a tympanic distance between the sound receiving end of the probe tube and a tympanic membrane by supplying the neural network model with inputs based on the received reference and tympanic reflection signals, and receiving from the neural network model output corresponding to a determined tympanic distance, and directing the operator feedback device to provide an indicium of the tympanic distance between the sound receiving end of the probe tube and the tympanic membrane.
19. The probe insertion apparatus of claim 18, wherein: the neural network model is a recurrent neural network model.
</claims>
</document>
