<document>

<filing_date>
2017-02-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61M1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SMITH & NEPHEW
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARTWELL, EDWARD YERBURY
QUINTANAR, FELIX C.
DE VILLIERS, JASON PETER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58094540
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DETECTING OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS OF REDUCED PRESSURE THERAPY
</title>

<abstract>
In some embodiments, a negative pressure wound therapy system can detect and classify one or more operational conditions, including detection of a wound bleeding. The system can react to detection of blood by providing an indication, reducing the intensity or stopping therapy, releasing negative pressure, etc. In certain embodiments, the system can detect one or more additional operational conditions, such as change in vacuum pressure, gas leak rate change, exudate flow rate change, water flow rate change, presence of exudate, presence of water, etc. The system can detect and distinguish between different operational conditions and provide indication or take remedial action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-15. (canceled)
16. An apparatus for applying negative pressure to a wound, comprising: a negative pressure source configured to provide negative pressure, via a fluid flow path, to a dressing placed over a wound; one or more pressure sensors configured to monitor a pressure in the fluid flow path; and a controller configured to: determine a type of fluid causing a change in properties in the fluid flow; detect presence of blood in the fluid flow path based on the pressure monitored by the one or more pressure sensors and an activity level of the negative pressure source, and provide an indication that blood is present in the fluid flow path.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the negative pressure source comprises a pump operated by an actuator, and wherein the activity level comprises at least one of a pump speed, a pulse width modulation (PWM) signal configured to drive the actuator, or a current signal configured to drive the actuator.
18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the controller is further configured to: compute a first indicator associated with change in the pressure over a time duration and a second indicator associated with change in the activity level over the time duration; and detect presence of blood based on the first and second indicators.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein at least one of the first or second indicators comprises a statistical indicator.
20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the controller is further configured to perform a time series analysis to determine if at least one of the first or second indicators deviates from a threshold and based on the deviation detect presence of blood.
21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the time series analysis comprises determination of a cumulative sum (Cusum) of at least one of the first or second indicators.
22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the Cusum of at least one of the first or second indicators comprises a sliding causal Cusum.
23. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the first indicator comprises mean pressure over the time duration and the second indicator comprises standard deviation of standard deviation of the current signal over the time duration.
24. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the indication that blood is present in the fluid flow path comprises one or more of: activation of an alarm, release of negative pressure in the fluid flow path, decrease of a target negative pressure provided by the negative pressure source, or deactivation of the negative pressure source.
25. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the controller is further configured to detect and provide indication of one or more of: presence of water in the fluid flow path, presence of exudate in the fluid flow path, presence of gas leak in the fluid flow path, or change in the pressure in the fluid flow path.
26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the controller is further configured to: compute a plurality of indicators associated with change in the pressure over a time duration and change in the activity level over the time duration; and detect and provide an indication of one or more of presence of water in the fluid flow path, presence of exudate in the fluid flow path, presence of gas leak in the fluid flow path, or change in the pressure in the fluid flow path based on the plurality of indicators.
27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein at least some of the plurality of indicators comprise a statistical indicator.
28. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the controller is further configured to perform a time series analysis to determine if at least some of the plurality of indicators deviate from one or more thresholds and based on the deviation detect one or more of presence of water in the fluid flow path, presence of exudate in the fluid flow path, presence of gas leak in the fluid flow path, or change in negative pressure in the fluid flow path.
29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the time series analysis comprises determination of a cumulative sum (Cusum) of at least some of the plurality of indicators.
30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the Cusum of at least some of the plurality of indicators comprises a sliding causal Cusum.
31. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein an indicator associated with change in the pressure in the fluid flow path comprises mean pressure over the time duration, an indicator associated with presence of gas leak in the fluid flow path comprises standard deviation of a mean of the current signal, and an indicator associated with presence of water or exudate in the fluid flow path comprises kurtosis of standard deviation of the pump speed.
32. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the controller is further configured to determine malfunction of the one or more pressure sensors based on at least one of the indicators.
33. 33.-45. (canceled)
46. A method of operating an apparatus for applying negative pressure to a wound, the method comprising: providing negative pressure from a negative pressure source of the apparatus, via a fluid flow path, to a wound dressing configured to be placed over the wound; determining a type of fluid causing a change in properties in the fluid flow; detecting presence of blood in the fluid flow path based on a pressure monitored in the fluid flow path and an activity level of the negative pressure source; and providing an indication that blood is present in the fluid flow path, wherein the method is performed by at least one processor.
47. (canceled)
48. The method of claim 46, further comprising: computing a first indicator associated with change in the pressure over a time duration and a second indicator associated with change in the activity level over the time duration; and detecting presence of blood based on the first and second indicators.
49. The method of claim 48, wherein at least one of the first or second indicators comprises a statistical indicator, and wherein the method further comprises performing a time series analysis to determine if at least one of the first or second indicators deviates from a threshold and based on the deviation detect presence of blood.
50. (canceled)
51. The method of claim 49, wherein the time series analysis comprises determination of a cumulative sum (Cusum) of at least one of the first or second indicators, and wherein the Cusum of at least one of the first or second indicators comprises a sliding causal Cusum.
52. (canceled)
53. The method of claim 48, wherein the first indicator comprises mean pressure over the time duration and the second indicator comprises standard deviation of standard deviation of the current signal over the time duration.
54. 54.-62. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
