<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06K9/00,G06K9/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOBII
</assignee>

<inventors>
Andersson, Richard
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73887864
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method, Eyetracker and Computer Program for Determining Eye Positions in Digital Image Data
</title>

<abstract>
An eyetracker obtains a digital image representing at least one eye of a subject. The eyetracker then searches for pupil candidates in the digital image according to a search algorithm and, based on the searching, determines a position for the at least one eye in the digital image. The eyetracker also obtains light-intensity information expressing an estimated amount of light energy exposing the at least one eye when registering the digital image. In response to the light-intensity information, the eye-tracker determines a range of pupil sizes. The search algorithm applies the range of pupil sizes in such a manner that a detected pupil candidate must have size within the range of pupil sizes to be accepted by the search algorithm as a valid pupil of the subject.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed in an eyetracker, the method comprising: obtaining a digital image representing at least one eye of a subject, searching for pupil candidates in the digital image according to a search algorithm, and determining a position for the at least one eye in the digital image based on said searching, characterized by: obtaining light-intensity information expressing an estimated amount of light energy exposing the at least one eye when registering the digital image, and in response to the light-intensity information determining a range of pupil sizes, which range of pupil sizes is to be applied by the search algorithm in said searching in such a manner that the size of a detected pupil candidate must lie within the range of pupil sizes to be accepted by the search algorithm as a valid pupil of the subject.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the determining of the range of pupil sizes comprises using an eye model that defines the range of pupil sizes based on the light-intensity information.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the eye model that defines the range of pupil sizes is further based on at least one parameter describing a pupil behavior in response to variations in the estimated amount of light energy exposing the at least one eye.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the determining of the range of pupil sizes is based on a calibration procedure performed prior to obtaining the light-intensity information expressing an estimated amount of light energy exposing the at least one eye, the calibration procedure comprising: selectively illuminating the at least one eye with light of first and second intensities, registering, for each of the first and second intensities, a pupil size of the at least one eye, and based thereon generating at least one of a mapping function and a look-up table describing a relationship between the estimated amount of light energy that exposes the at least one eye and an estimated pupil size exhibited by the at least one eye at said estimated amount of light energy.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the calibration procedure further comprises recording a contractive latency expressing an interval of time between: a first point in time when the pupil has an initial size, and the intensity of the illumination is increased from the first intensity to the second intensity; and a second point in time when the pupil has attained a final size while being exposed to the illumination of the second intensity.
6. The method according to claim 4, wherein the calibration procedure further comprises recording a dilative latency expressing an interval of time between: a third point in time when the pupil has an initial size, and the intensity of the illumination is decreased from the second intensity to the first intensity; and a fourth point in time when the pupil has attained a final size while being exposed to the illumination of the first intensity.
7. The method according to claim 4, wherein the generating of the at least one of the mapping function and the look-up table further comprises estimating at least one of a minimum pupil size and a maximum pupil size of the at least one eye.
8. The method according to claim 4, wherein the determining of the range of pupil sizes comprises considering at least one of the mapping function and the look-up table.
9. The method according to claim 1, comprising: obtaining the light-intensity information via a light sensor arranged in proximity to the at least one eye, which light sensor is configured to register the estimated amount of light energy that exposes the at least one eye.
10. The method according to claim 1, comprising: obtaining the light-intensity information via an image signal representing the at least one eye, which image signal expresses an amount of light energy reflected in a surface of the at least one eye.
11. The method according to claim 1, comprising: obtaining the light-intensity information via a control signal expressing a luminance of a display arranged to present visual input to the at least one eye.
12. The method according to claim 11, further comprising: determining the range of pupil sizes in consideration of a system delay between a point in time when the control signal is generated and a period during which the visual input is presented to the at least one eye.
13. The method according to claim 11, wherein the control signal is based on a recorded video signal and the determining of the range of pupil sizes further comprises: determining an extended system delay between a basic point in time and a period during which the visual input is presented to the at least one eye, the presented visual content being generated at a point in time after the basic point in time, and determining the range of pupil sizes in consideration of the extended system delay.
14. The method according to claim 11, wherein the control signal is based on a computer-generated video signal and the determining of the range of pupil sizes further comprises: determining an extended system delay between a basic point in time and a period during which an estimated visual input is expected to be presented to the at least one eye, the estimated visual input being generated at a point in time after the basic point in time, and determining the range of pupil sizes in consideration of the extended system delay.
15. A computer program product loadable into a non-volatile data carrier communicatively connected to a processing circuitry, the computer program product comprising software configured to, when the computer program product is run on the processing circuitry, cause the processing circuitry to: obtain a digital image representing at least one eye of a subject, search for pupil candidates in the digital image according to a search algorithm, and determine a position for the at least one eye in the digital image based on said search, characterized in that when the computer program product is run on the processing circuitry, the software is further configured to cause the processing circuitry to: obtain light-intensity information expressing an estimated amount of light energy exposing the at least one eye when registering the digital image, and in response to the light-intensity information determine a range of pupil sizes, which range of pupil sizes is to be applied by the search algorithm in said search in such a manner that the size of a detected pupil candidate must lie within the range of pupil sizes to be accepted by the search algorithm as a valid pupil of the subject.
16. A non-volatile data carrier containing the computer program product of the claim 15.
17. An eyetracker comprising a processing circuitry configured to: obtain a digital image representing at least one eye of a subject, search for pupil candidates in the digital image according to a search algorithm, and determine a position for the at least one eye in the digital image based on said search, characterized in that processing circuitry is further configured to: obtain light-intensity information expressing an amount of light energy reaching the at least one eye when registering the digital image, and in response to the light-intensity information, and determine a range of pupil sizes, which range of pupil sizes is to be applied by the search algorithm in said search in such a manner that the size of a detected pupil candidate must lie within the range of pupil sizes to be accepted by the search algorithm as a valid pupil of the subject.
18. A headset, characterized in that the headset comprises the eyetracker according to claim 17.
19. The headset according to claim 18, further comprising at least one display configured to present visual data to a subject, which visual data represents at least one of augmented reality data and virtual-reality graphics.
20. An eyetracker arrangement configured to present visual information to a subject via a display being physically separated from the subject, characterized in that the eyetracker arrangement comprises the eyetracker according to claim 17.
</claims>
</document>
