<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61K31/506,A61P35/00,C07K16/28,C12Q1/6886
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF LONDON
THE ROYAL MARSDEN NHS FOUNDATION TRUST
</assignee>

<inventors>
Huang, Paul
Cheang, Maggie
Lee, Alex
Jones, Robin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63259504
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MATERIALS AND METHODS FOR STRATIFYING AND TREATING CANCERS
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to materials and methods for stratifying and treating cancers and to methods of identifying/selecting patients for treatment of cancer with tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Gene expression profiles, TP53 mutations and FGFR1 and PDGFRA expression are used to identify/select/stratify the cancers and patients.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of selecting an individual with cancer for treatment with a TKI, the method comprising: (a) determining the expression levels in a biological sample obtained from the individual of 40 or more of the genes selected from table 4, wherein said biological sample comprises cells, nucleic acids and/or proteins from cancer, and (b) selecting an individual for treatment with the TKI based on the expression levels of those genes.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the expression levels of the 40 or more of the genes determined in said step (a) may be compared with: (i) a first reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a first group of subjects known to have cancer with PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; (ii) a second reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a second group of subjects known to have cancer with (a) mutant TP53 and (b) PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo; (iii) a third reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a third group of subjects known to have cancer with (a) a gene expression profile having a closer match to the centroid of subgroup A shown in table 3 than subgroups B or C, and (b) TP53 wildtype, and (c) PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo; (iv) a fourth reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a fourth group of subjects known to have cancer with (a a gene expression profile having a closer match to the centroid of subgroup B shown in table 3 than subgroups A or C, and (b) TP53 wildtype, and (c) PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo; and (v) a fifth reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a fifth group of subjects known to have cancer with (a) a gene expression profile having a closer match to the centroid of subgroup C shown in table 3 than subgroups A or B, and (b) TP53 wildtype, and (c) PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo; wherein the individual is selected for treatment with the TKI in step (b) when the expression levels determined in said step (a) of the 40 or more genes are a closer match to said third reference centroid than said first, second, fourth or fifth reference centroids.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression is PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Hi or PDGFRA-Lo/FGFR1-Lo or PDGFRA-Lo/FGFR1-Hi.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein step (b) comprises selecting the individual for treatment with a TKI if the expression levels of the 40 or more of the genes determined in said step (a) are a closer match to the reference centroid A(3) shown in table 6, than any of reference centroids IHC+(1), TP53(2), B(4), C(5)) shown in table 6.
5. The method according to claim 1 wherein the expression levels of at least 40, at least 45, at least 50, at least 6, at least 70, at least 80, at least 90, at least 100, at least 110, at least 120, at least 130, at least 240, at least 150, at least 160, at least 170, at least 180, at least 190, at least 200, at least 210, at least 220 or all 225 of the genes in table 4 are determined.
6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the expression levels determined in step (a) are the nucleic acid expression levels.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the expression levels are determined using an RNA microarray, Nanostring technology, RNA-Seq or quantitative PCR.
8. 8-33. (canceled)
34. The method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of obtaining the sample of cancer cells, nucleic acids and/or proteins from the individual, wherein the biological sample is obtained from tissue, cells or fluid from the individual.
35. (canceled)
36. (canceled)
37. A method of treating cancer with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) in an individual in need thereof, wherein the individual has been selected for treatment according to claim 1.
38. (canceled)
39. (canceled)
40. (canceled)
41. The method according to claim 37 wherein the cancer is selected from: soft tissues sarcoma (STS), metastatic renal cell carcinomas (mRCC), gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST), hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), neuroendocrine tumour (NET), medullary thyroid cancer (MTC), non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (non-squamous NSCLC), and chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML).
42. The method according to claim 41, wherein the cancer is STS or advanced STS.
43. (canceled)
44. The method according to claim 37 wherein the TKI is selected from: Pazopanib, Regorafenib, Sorafenib, Sunitinib, Lenvatinib, Axitinib, Nintedanib, and Ponatinib, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
45. The method according to claim 44 wherein the TKI is Pazopanib.
46. The method according to claim 37 wherein the TKI is Pazopanib and the cancer is soft tissue sarcoma or advanced soft tissue sarcoma.
47. (canceled)
48. A kit for use in identifying a cancer suitable for treatment with a TKI, the kit comprising probes for detecting the expression levels of at least 40 at least 45, at least 50, at least 60, at least 70, at least 80, at least 90, at least 100, at least 110, at least 120, at least 130, at least 240, at least 150, at least 160, at least 170, at least 180, at least 190, at least 200, at least 210, at least 220 or all 225 of the genes in table 4.
49. 49-53. (canceled)
54. A method of determining a prognosis following TKI treatment in an individual, the method comprising determining the expression levels of 40 or more genes from table 4.
55. The method according to claim 54 wherein the individual is determined to have a good prognosis following TKI treatment if they have a cancer having the expression levels of the 40 or more genes in table 4 a closer match to a third reference centroid than said first, second, fourth or fifth reference centroids, wherein the reference centroids are: (a) a first reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a first group of subjects known to have cancer with PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; (b) a second reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a second group of subjects known to have cancer with mutated TP53 and PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; (c) a third reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a third group of subjects known to have cancer with (a) a gene expression profile having a closer match to the centroid of subgroup A shown in table 3 than subgroups B or C, and (b) TP53 wild-type, and (c) PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; (d) a fourth reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a fourth group of subjects known to have cancer with (a) a gene expression profile having a closer match to the centroid of subgroup B shown in table 3 than subgroups A or C, and (b) TP53 wild-type, and (c) PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; and (e) a fifth reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a fifth group of subjects known to have cancer with (a) a gene expression profile having a closer match to the centroid of subgroup C shown in table 3 than subgroups A or B, and (b) TP53 wild-type, and (c) PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression.
56. The method according to claim 54 wherein the individual is determined to have a poor prognosis if they have a cancer having the expression levels of the 40 or more genes in table 4 a closer match to a first, second, fourth or fifth reference centroid than a third reference centroids, wherein the reference centroids are: (a) a first reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a first group of subjects known to have cancer with PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; (b) a second reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a second group of subjects known to have cancer with mutated TP53 and PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; (c) a third reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a third group of subjects known to have cancer with (a) a gene expression profile having a closer match to the centroid of subgroup A shown in table 3 than subgroups B or C, and (b) TP53 wild-type, and (c) PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; (d) a fourth reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a fourth group of subjects known to have cancer with (a) a gene expression profile having a closer match to the centroid of subgroup B shown in table 3 than subgroups A or C, and (b) TP53 wild-type, and (c) PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; and (e) a fifth reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a fifth group of subjects known to have cancer with (a) a gene expression profile having a closer match to the centroid of subgroup C shown in table 3 than subgroups A or B, and (b) TP53 wild-type, and (c) PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression.
57. 57-63. (canceled)
64. A method of treating cancer in an individual identified as having a cancer having the expression levels of the 40 or more genes in table 4 a closer match to a first, second, fourth or fifth reference centroid than a third reference centroids, the method comprising administering an anti-PDGFRA antibody, binding fragment thereof or a pharmaceutical composition comprising said antibody or said binding fragment to the individual, wherein the reference centroids are: (a) a first reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a first group of subjects known to have cancer with PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; (b) a second reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a second group of subjects known to have cancer with mutated TP53 and PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; (c) a third reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a third group of subjects known to have cancer with (a) a gene expression profile having a closer match to the centroid of subgroup A shown in table 3 than subgroups B or C, and (b) TP53 wild-type, and (c) PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; (d) a fourth reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a fourth group of subjects known to have cancer with (a) a gene expression profile having a closer match to the centroid of subgroup B shown in table 3 than subgroups A or C, and (b) TP53 wild-type, and (c) PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; and (e) a fifth reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a fifth group of subjects known to have cancer with (a) a gene expression profile having a closer match to the centroid of subgroup C shown in table 3 than subgroups A or B, and (b) TP53 wild-type, and (c) PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression.
65. The method according to claim 64, wherein the anti-PDGFRA antibody, binding fragment or composition is for use in a method comprising: (i) performing the method of claim 1 on at least one sample obtained from the individual, wherein the individual is identified as having a cancer having the expression levels of the 40 or more genes in table 4 a closer match to a first, second, fourth or fifth reference centroid than a third reference centroids, wherein the reference centroids are: (a) a first reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a first group of subjects known to have cancer with PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; (b) a second reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a second group of subjects known to have cancer with mutated TP53 and PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; (c) a third reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a third group of subjects known to have cancer with (a) a gene expression profile having a closer match to the centroid of subgroup A shown in table 3 than subgroups B or C, and (b) TP53 wild-type, and (c) PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; (d) a fourth reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a fourth group of subjects known to have cancer with (a) a gene expression profile having a closer match to the centroid of subgroup B shown in table 3 than subgroups A or C, and (b) TP53 wild-type, and (c) PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; and (e) a fifth reference centroid corresponding to the expression profile of said 40 or more genes determined in a fifth group of subjects known to have cancer with (a) a gene expression profile having a closer match to the centroid of subgroup C shown in table 3 than subgroups A or B, and (b) TP53 wild-type, and (c) PDGFRA/FGFR1 expression that is not PDGFRA-Hi/FGFR1-Lo expression; and (ii) administering a therapeutically effective amount of said anti-PDGFRA antibody, said binding fragment thereof or said pharmaceutical composition.
66. 66-69. (canceled)
70. The method of claim 64, wherein the antibody comprises olaratumab.
</claims>
</document>
