<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B17/88,A61B90/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MIGHTY OAK MEDICAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
FREY, GEORGE
VOELKEL, CALEB
Starkman, Sean
JENSEN, Adam
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72611174
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PATIENT-MATCHED APPARATUS FOR USE IN AUGMENTED REALITY ASSISTED SURGICAL PROCEDURES AND METHODS FOR USING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for robotic, computer-aided or virtual/augmented reality assisted procedures, including with use a of patient-specific or patient-matched, customized apparatus for assisting in various surgical procedures. In varying embodiments, patient-specific guides may comprise embedded markers, chips, circuits, or other registerable components for providing information to a robotic or computer-aided device. Other apparatus described herein may be aligned and/or matched with the robotic or augmented reality equipment or another apparatus during a surgical procedure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A customized apparatus for use with an augmented reality system, comprising: a central portion of the apparatus, which comprises a first and a second extension; at least a first surface configured to be complementary to a predetermined portion of an anatomical feature; at least a second surface distinct from the at least a first surface that is configured to be complementary to another predetermined portion of an anatomical feature; at least one marker in communication with the augmented reality system; wherein the at least one marker communicates the location and orientation of the apparatus to the augmented reality system; and wherein placement of the at least a first surface on the predetermined portion of an anatomic feature and placement of the at least a second surface on the another predetermined portion of an anatomical feature is verified by the augmented reality system through communication with the at least one marker.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the marker is removable from the apparatus.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the apparatus further comprises a bore, and wherein the bore is used to guide a tool or instrument to create an aperture in a predetermined portion of patient anatomy for placement of the at least one marker.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one marker is selected from the group consisting of a registration marker, a microchip, a circuit, a coil, a gyroscope and an indicia.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the at least one marker is embedded in the apparatus.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one marker is selectively engaged within an aperture in the central portion of the apparatus.
7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the at least one marker configuration is selected from a group consisting of various orientations, lengths, and sizes.
8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the configuration and location of the at least one marker relative to the central portion are communicated to the augmented reality system after the at least one marker is selectively engaged within the aperture.
9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising at least a third surface distinct from the at least a first and second surfaces, wherein the at least a third surface is configured to be complementary to a different portion of an anatomical feature than the first and second surfaces.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one planned orientation of the surgical instruments and implants, relative to the at least one marker, is displayed on at least one peripheral device.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the location and orientation of the apparatus is displayed on at least one peripheral device.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one peripheral device is selected from the group consisting of a wearable device, a handheld device, a voice activated device, a pair of glasses, a pair of goggles, a set of headphones, a speaker, a microphone, a haptic device, a holographic imaging device, a monitor, a screen, a visual display, an on-glass display and an audible device.
13. A system for performing one or more surgical procedures facilitated by a computer-aided navigational apparatus, comprising: at least one robotic apparatus; a processor in communication with the at least one robotic apparatus; a patient-specific apparatus configured to be placed on at least one patient-specific feature; at least one marker that is positioned in a known location relative to patient anatomy and configured to transmit positional information to the processor; wherein the processor is configured to receive and relay the positional information received from the at least one marker to determine the location and orientation of the at least one robotic apparatus relative to patient anatomy.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the at least one marker is selected from the group consisting of a registration marker, a microchip, a circuit, a coil, a gyroscope and an indicia.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the marker is embedded in the apparatus.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the marker is selectively engaged with the apparatus.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the apparatus further comprises a bore, and wherein the bore is used to guide a tool or instrument to create an aperture in the at least one patient-specific feature.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the marker is selectively engaged with the aperture.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein the location of the patient-specific apparatus is displayed on at least one peripheral device.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the at least one peripheral device is selected from the group consisting of a wearable device, a handheld device, a voice activated device, a pair of glasses, a pair of goggles, a set of headphones, a speaker, a microphone, a haptic device, a holographic imaging device, a monitor, a screen, a visual display, an on-glass display and an audible device.
21. The system of claim 13, wherein the patient-specific apparatus comprises at least a first patient-specific surface and a second patient-specific surface, the first and second surfaces configured to be placed on multiple of the at least one patient-specific features.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the patient-specific apparatus comprises at least a third patient-specific surface.
23. The system of claim 13, wherein the processor is configured to deliver alerts, warnings or other signals based on the location of the at least one marker.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the alerts, warnings or other signals include an alert when the at least one marker is in an undesired location, and include a different alert when the at least one marker is in a predetermined desired location.
25. The system of claim 13, wherein the robotic device interfaces or connects with the patient-specific apparatus when the apparatus is fit to patient anatomy, and wherein the robotic device is also oriented to one or more of the patient-specific surfaces.
</claims>
</document>
