<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G07F17/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ARB LABS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DUNN, RUSSELL BROOKE
BULZACKI, ADRIAN
CAZAN, VLAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65994245
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROGRESSIVE BETTING SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments described herein relate to systems and methods for monitoring progressive game activities at a plurality of gaming tables. For example, embodiments described herein relate to systems and methods for monitoring that a bet for playing a progressive game was made, the amount of the bet, the position of the bet, the identification of the player who made the bet and the identification of the gaming table at which the bet was made. A progressive jackpot metric may be computed based on the data captured at the gaming table for increasing or decreasing one or more progressive jackpots. Visual elements corresponding to the one or more progressive jackpots may be rendered on a jackpot interface display.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for monitoring progressive game activities at a plurality of gaming tables comprising: a plurality of table monitoring subsystems for the plurality of gaming tables, each table monitoring subsystem comprising an imaging component positioned to capture image data of one or more chips positioned in at least one betting area on a gaming surface of a respective gaming table to generate a compressed set of image data of the one or more chips free of the background image data, each table monitoring subsystem comprising one or more sensors responsive to activation events and deactivation events to trigger capture of the image data by the imaging component; a progressive game monitoring server for collecting, processing and aggregating the compressed image data from the table monitoring subsystems and configured to: generate aggregated betting data for the plurality of gaming tables, the aggregated betting data identifying betting amounts for the at least one betting area; compute a progressive jackpot metric for increasing or decreasing one or more progressive jackpots of a progressive game based on the aggregated betting data; and a jackpot interface display for rendering visual elements of one or more progressive jackpot meters from the monitoring data from the progressive game monitoring server for provision to or display on end user systems, the jackpot interface device for receiving control commands from the progressive game monitoring server to control displaying the one or more progressive jackpots.
2. 2-6. (canceled)
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the aggregated betting data generated by the progressive game monitoring server identifies a first betting amount at a first betting area, and a second betting amount at a second betting area, the first betting amount different from the second betting amount.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the image data comprises a time stamp, and the progressive game server is configured to determine a winner of the progressive game based on the time stamp of the image data; dynamically compute a prize amount for the winner based on the one or more progressive jackpot amounts; and reset or decrease the one or more progressive based on the prize amount.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the progressive game monitoring server is configured to generate a display enhancement indicative of a size of the one or more progressive jackpots, and to send a control command to the jackpot interface device to display the display enhancement on the jackpot interface device.
10. 10-11. (canceled)
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the progressive game monitoring server is configured to detect a lock-in event to trigger the computation of the progressive jackpot metric.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the table monitoring subsystem comprises: a first imaging component configured to be positioned or supported on a first surface of a chip tray, and a second imaging component configured to be positioned or supported on a second surface of a chip tray, the first imaging component and the second imaging component configured to capture image data corresponding to one or more chips positioned in the at least one betting area on the gaming surface of the respective gaming table when the chip tray is affixed to the gaming table; the one or more sensors responsive to activation events and deactivation events to trigger capture of the image data by the first imaging component and the second imaging component; and a communication link and a processor configured for transmitting the captured image data or a compressed set of the captured image data to generate bet data for the gaming table, the bet data including betting amounts and position of the bet for the at least one betting area.
14. 14-15. (canceled)
16. The system of claim 13, wherein each of the first imaging component and the second imaging component comprises an infrared radiation emitter, an infrared radiation sensitive camera, and a visible light-sensitive camera, and the table monitoring subsystem further comprises a port to transmit captured at least visible information and captured at least infrared radiation from the at least two cameras to the processor.
17. 17-20. (canceled)
21. The system of claim 16, wherein the table monitoring subsystem comprises multiple imaging components that are secured to a single support, the support having a visible radiation emitter positioned to emit radiation at an angle approximately perpendicular to a forward surface of the support.
22. (canceled)
23. The system of claim 21, wherein, with respect to a nominal line centered on the support, at least two of the multiple imaging components are angled outwardly from the nominal line with capture ranges of the cameras in each of the at least two multiple components overlapping on the nominal line.
24. The system of claim 21, wherein the table monitoring subsystem comprises four imaging components, wherein fields of focus for all cameras in adjacent imaging components overlap at areas on the gaming surface of the gaming table corresponding to the betting areas.
25. 25-31. (canceled)
32. A method for monitoring progressive game activities at a plurality of gaming tables comprising: detecting an activation or deactivation event; capturing, in response to the detecting activation events and deactivation events, image data of one or more chips positioned in at least one betting area on a gaming surface of a gaming table; pre-processing the captured image data to filter out at least a portion of background image data and generate a compressed set of image data of the one or more chips free of the background image data; collecting, processing and aggregating the compressed image data to: generate aggregated betting data for the plurality of gaming tables, the aggregated betting data identifying betting amounts for the at least one betting area; and compute a progressive jackpot metric for increasing or decreasing one or more progressive jackpots of a progressive game based on the aggregated betting data; and displaying the one or more progressive jackpots.
33. 33-37. (canceled)
38. The method of claim 32, wherein the aggregated betting data identifies a first betting amount at a first betting area, and a second betting amount at a second betting area, the first betting amount different from the second betting amount.
39. The method of claim 32, wherein the image data comprises a time stamp, and the method further comprises determining a winner of the progressive game based on the time stamp of the image data; dynamically computing a prize amount for the winner based on the one or more progressive jackpot amounts; and resetting or decreasing the one or more progressive based on the prize amount.
40. The method of claim 32, further comprising: generating a display enhancement indicative of a size of the one or more progressive jackpots, and sending a control command to the jackpot interface device to display the display enhancement on the jackpot interface device.
41. 41-42. (canceled)
43. The method of claim 32, further comprising: detecting a lock-in event to trigger the computation of the progressive jackpot metric.
44. The method of claim 32, wherein the steps of detecting an activation or deactivation event and capturing the image data is performed by a table monitoring subsystem comprising: a first imaging component configured to be positioned or supported on a first surface of a chip tray, and a second imaging component configured to be positioned or supported on a second surface of a chip tray, the first imaging component and the second imaging component configured to capture image data corresponding to one or more chips positioned in the at least one betting area on the gaming surface of the respective gaming table when the chip tray is affixed to the gaming table; the one or more sensors responsive to activation events and deactivation events to trigger capture of the image data by the first imaging component and the second imaging component; and a communication link and a processor configured for transmitting the captured image data or a compressed set of the captured image data to generate bet data for the gaming table, the bet data including betting amounts and position of the bet for the at least one betting area.
45. 45-46. (canceled)
47. The method of claim 44, wherein each of the first imaging component and the second imaging component comprises an infrared radiation emitter, an infrared radiation sensitive camera, and a visible light-sensitive camera, and the table monitoring subsystem further comprises a port to transmit captured at least visible information and captured at least infrared radiation from the at least two cameras to the processor.
48. 48-51. (canceled)
52. The method of claim 47, wherein the table monitoring subsystem comprises multiple imaging components that are secured to a single support, the support having a visible radiation emitter positioned to emit radiation at an angle approximately perpendicular to a forward surface of the support.
53. (canceled)
54. The method of claim 52, wherein, with respect to a nominal line centered on the support, at least two of the multiple imaging components are angled outwardly from the nominal line with capture ranges of the cameras in each of the at least two multiple components overlapping on the nominal line.
55. 55-62. (canceled)
63. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing machine interpretable instructions, which when executed by a processor, perform a method for monitoring progressive game activities at a plurality of gaming tables comprising: detecting an activation or deactivation event; capturing, in response to the detecting activation events and deactivation events, image data of one or more chips positioned in at least one betting area on a gaming surface of a gaming table: pre-processing the captured image data to filter out at least a portion of background image data and generate a compressed set of image data of the one or more chips free of the background image data: collecting, processing and aggregating the compressed image data to: generate aggregated betting data for the plurality of gaming tables, the aggregated betting data identifying betting amounts for the at least one betting area; and compute a progressive jackpot metric for increasing or decreasing one or more progressive jackpots of a progressive game based on the aggregated betting data; and displaying the one or more progressive jackpots.
</claims>
</document>
