<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G10L15/06,G10L15/18,G10L15/197
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
JOSHI, SACHINDRA
DHOOLIA, PANKAJ
RAGHU, DINESH
MADAN, DHIRAJ
PANDEY, GAURAV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69586413
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Unsupervised Learning of Interpretable Conversation Models from Conversation Logs
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and computer program products for unsupervised learning of interpretable conversation models from conversation logs are provided herein. A computer-implemented method includes obtaining human-to-human conversation logs; training a deep learning model by (i) learning, in an unsupervised manner, semantic labels for dialog contexts in the multiple human-to-human conversation logs, (ii) mapping the learned semantic labels to query responses across the multiple human-to-human conversation logs, and (iii) inferring one or more entities from the multiple conversation logs based at least in part on the mapping; constructing a human-interpretable conversation model based at least in part on patterns determined via the trained deep learning model; and outputting the human-interpretable conversation model to at least one user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising steps of: obtaining multiple human-to-human conversation logs; training a deep learning model by (i) learning, in an unsupervised manner, semantic labels for dialog contexts in the multiple human-to-human conversation logs, (ii) mapping the learned semantic labels to query responses across the multiple human-to-human conversation logs, and (iii) inferring one or more entities from the multiple conversation logs based at least in part on the mapping; constructing a human-interpretable conversation model based at least in part on one or more patterns determined via the trained deep learning model; and outputting the human-interpretable conversation model to at least one user; wherein the steps are carried out by at least one computing device.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the semantic labels comprise one or more intents.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said training the deep learning model comprises determining probability distributions for transitioning between instances of the learned semantic labels.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said training the deep learning model comprises generating one or more query responses given an instance of a particular one of the learned semantic labels.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the human-interpretable conversation model comprises (i) multiple intents, (ii) multiple entities, and (iii) one or more conversation flows.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the one or more conversation flows comprises an estimation of one or more ordered instances of occurrences of multiple semantic labels in a conversation.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said constructing comprises constructing the human-interpretable conversation model in an unsupervised manner.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said constructing comprises learning one or more probabilities of transitioning between one or more instances of mapped semantic labels.
9. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to: obtain multiple human-to-human conversation logs; train a deep learning model by (i) learning, in an unsupervised manner, semantic labels for dialog contexts in the multiple human-to-human conversation logs, (ii) mapping the learned semantic labels to query responses across the multiple human-to-human conversation logs, and (iii) inferring one or more entities from the multiple conversation logs based at least in part on the mapping; construct a human-interpretable conversation model based at least in part on one or more patterns determined via the trained deep learning model; and output the human-interpretable conversation model to at least one user.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein said training the deep learning model comprises determining probability distributions for transitioning between instances of the learned semantic labels.
11. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein said training the deep learning model comprises generating one or more query responses given an instance of a particular one of the learned semantic labels.
12. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the human-interpretable conversation model comprises (i) multiple intents, (ii) multiple entities, and (iii) one or more conversation flows.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the one or more conversation flows comprises an estimation of one or more ordered instances of occurrences of multiple semantic labels in a conversation.
14. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein said constructing comprises constructing the human-interpretable conversation model in an unsupervised manner.
15. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein said constructing comprises learning one or more probabilities of transitioning between one or more instances of mapped semantic labels.
16. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the semantic labels comprise one or more intents.
17. A system comprising: a memory; and at least one processor operably coupled to the memory and configured for: obtaining multiple human-to-human conversation logs; training a deep learning model by (i) learning, in an unsupervised manner, semantic labels for dialog contexts in the multiple human-to-human conversation logs, (ii) mapping the learned semantic labels to query responses across the multiple human-to-human conversation logs, and (iii) inferring one or more entities from the multiple conversation logs based at least in part on the mapping; constructing a human-interpretable conversation model based at least in part on one or more patterns determined via the trained deep learning model; and outputting the human-interpretable conversation model to at least one user.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein said training the deep learning model comprises determining probability distributions for transitioning between instances of the learned semantic labels.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein said constructing comprises learning one or more probabilities of transitioning between one or more instances of mapped semantic labels.
20. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising steps of: obtaining multiple human-to-human conversation logs; training a deep learning model by (i) learning, in an unsupervised manner, semantic labels for dialog contexts in the multiple human-to-human conversation logs, (ii) mapping the learned semantic labels to query responses across the multiple human-to-human conversation logs, (iii) learning probabilities of transitioning between two or more of the mapped semantic labels based on one or more user utterances, and (iv) inferring one or more entities from the multiple conversation logs based at least in part on the mapping; constructing a human-interpretable conversation model based at least in part on one or more patterns determined via the trained deep learning model; and outputting the human-interpretable conversation model to at least one natural language understanding model; wherein the steps are carried out by at least one computing device.
</claims>
</document>
