<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60R25/00,G06F3/01,G07C9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BYTON NORTH AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, ABRAHAM TAI-YU
LE BOURGEOIS, BENOIT
LIMBERGER, RENE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71405094
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR KEY FOB MOTION BASED GESTURE COMMANDS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a method and apparatus for controlling vehicle systems. The method may be performed by a mobile device and a vehicle, and may include capturing motion data generated by one or more sensors of the mobile device. The method may also include generating a motion signature, indicative of a motion of the mobile device, from the captured motion data. Furthermore, when the generated motion signature matches a predefined motion signature stored in a memory of the mobile device, the method may include transmitting a motion based gesture command associated with the predefined motion signature to a vehicle. Additionally, the method may include operating one or more of the vehicle systems in response to a processor of the vehicle executing the received motion based gesture command.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for controlling vehicle systems, the method comprising: capturing motion data generated by one or more sensors of a mobile device; generating a motion signature, indicative of a motion of the mobile device, from the captured motion data; when the generated motion signature matches a predefined motion signature stored in a memory of the mobile device, transmitting a motion based gesture command associated with the predefined motion signature to a vehicle; and operating one or more of the vehicle systems in response to a processor of the vehicle executing the received motion based gesture command.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the memory of the mobile device stores a plurality of different predefined motion signatures each being associated with a different motion based gesture command, and wherein each of the different motion based gesture commands perform a different vehicle system operation when executed by the processor of the vehicle.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: transmitting, by the mobile device, the captured motion data with the generated motion based gesture command to the vehicle; storing, in a memory of the vehicle, a plurality of motion data associated with the generated motion based gesture command; performing, by the processor of the vehicle, a machine learning analysis using the received motion data as training data to refine the predefined motion signature associated with the motion based gesture command; transmitting, by the vehicle, a refined version of the predefined motion signature to the mobile device; and replacing, by the mobile device, the predefined motion signature with the received refined version of the predefined motion signature in the memory; and using the refined version of the predefined motion signature in the memory for comparison against a second motion signature generated using second motion data captured by the one or more sensors of the mobile device.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: transmitting, by the mobile device, an identifier that identifies one or more of a user and a mobile device associated with the captured motion data, wherein the predefined motion signature is associated with the identifier; performing, by the processor of the vehicle, the machine learning analysis using the received motion data as training data to refine the predefined motion signature associated with the identifier; and transmitting, by the vehicle, a refined version of the predefined motion signature that is associated with the identifier to the mobile device to replace the predefined motion signature stored in the memory at the mobile device.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising: transmitting, by the vehicle, the received motion data and the associated motion based gesture command to a server computer system, wherein the server computer system receives a plurality of motion data associated from a plurality of vehicle each associated with the predefined motion signature, and wherein the server computer system performs a machine learning analysis using the plurality of motion data to generate a server refined version of the predefined motion signature; receiving, at the vehicle from the server, the server refined version of the predefined motion signature; and transmitting, by the vehicle, the server refined version of the predefined motion signature that is associated with the identifier to the mobile device to replace the predefined motion signature stored in the memory at the mobile device.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting a trigger activated at the mobile device, wherein the one or more sensors are in an inactive state prior to detection of the trigger; and activating the one or more sensors for capture of the motion data in response to the detection of the trigger.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting, by the mobile device, the captured motion data with the generated motion based gesture command to the vehicle; generating, by the vehicle, a second motion signature from the captured motion data indicative of a motion of the mobile device; in response to determining that a motion based gesture command associated with the second motion signature generated by the vehicle matches the motion based gesture command received from the mobile device, operating the one or more vehicle systems.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the mobile device comprises a key fob.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the mobile device comprises one of a mobile telephone, a wearable device, or a tablet computer.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors comprise an accelerometer and a gyroscope.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors comprise an inertial measuring unit.
12. A system, comprising: a mobile device comprising: a memory to store a plurality of predefined motion signatures each associated with a motion based gesture command, one or more sensors to capture device motion data, a processor to: generate a motion signature, indicative of a motion of the mobile device, from the captured motion data, and when the generated motion signature matches a predefined motion signature stored in the memory, transmit a corresponding motion based gesture command to a vehicle; and a vehicle comprising: one or more vehicle systems, and a processor to: operate one or more of the vehicle systems in response to the processor executing the received motion based gesture command.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein each of the motion based gesture commands performs a different vehicle system operation when executed by the processor of the vehicle.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the mobile device comprises a key fob.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the mobile device comprises one of a mobile telephone, a wearable device, or a tablet computer.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the one or more sensors comprise an accelerometer and a gyroscope.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein the one or more sensors comprise an inertial measuring unit.
18. The system of claim 12, further comprising: the processor of the mobile device to transmit, using a transceiver of the mobile device, the captured motion data with the generated motion based gesture command to the vehicle; the processor of the vehicle to: store, in a memory of the vehicle, a plurality of motion data associated with the generated motion based gesture command, perform a machine learning analysis using the received motion data as training data to refine the predefined motion signature associated with the motion based gesture command, transmitting, with a transceiver of the vehicle, a refined version of the predefined motion signature to the mobile device; and the processor of the mobile device to: replace the predefined motion signature with the received refined version of the predefined motion signature in the memory, and use the refined version of the predefined motion signature in the memory for comparison against a second motion signature generated using a second motion data captured by the one or more sensors of the mobile device.
19. The system of claim 12, wherein the mobile device further comprises: a user interface element; and the processor to: detect a trigger in response to a user activating the user interface element at the mobile device, wherein the one or more sensors are in an inactive state prior to detection of the trigger, and activate the one or more sensors for capture of the motion data in response to the detection of the trigger.
20. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to perform operations for controlling vehicle systems, the operations comprising: capturing motion data generated by one or more sensors of the mobile device; generating a motion signature, indicative of a motion of the mobile device, from the captured motion data; when the generated motion signature matches a predefined motion signature stored in a memory of the mobile device, transmitting a motion based gesture command associated with the predefined motion signature to a vehicle; and operating one or more of the vehicle systems in response to a processor of the vehicle executing the received motion based gesture command.
21. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the memory of the mobile device stores a plurality of different predefined motion signatures each being associated with a different motion based gesture command, and wherein each of the different motion based gesture commands perform a different vehicle system operation when executed by the processor of the vehicle.
22. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 21, wherein the operations further comprise: transmitting, by the mobile device, the captured motion data with the generated motion based gesture command to the vehicle; storing, in a memory of the vehicle, a plurality of motion data associated with the generated motion based gesture command; performing, by the processor of the vehicle, a machine learning analysis using the received motion data as training data to refine the predefined motion signature associated with the motion based gesture command; transmitting, by the vehicle, a refined version of the predefined motion signature to the mobile device; and replacing, by the mobile device, the predefined motion signature with the received refined version of the predefined motion signature in the memory; and using the refined version of the predefined motion signature in the memory for comparison against a second motion signature generated using second motion data captured by the one or more sensors of the mobile device.
23. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 22, wherein the operations further comprise: transmitting, by the mobile device, an identifier that identifies one or more of a user and a mobile device associated with the captured motion data, wherein the predefined motion signature is associated with the identifier; performing, by the processor of the vehicle, the machine learning analysis using the received motion data as training data to refine the predefined motion signature associated with the identifier; and transmitting, by the vehicle, a refined version of the predefined motion signature that is associated with the identifier to the mobile device to replace the predefined motion signature stored in the memory at the mobile device.
24. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 22, wherein the operations further comprise: transmitting, by the vehicle, the received motion data and the associated motion based gesture command to a server computer system, wherein the server computer system receives a plurality of motion data associated from a plurality of vehicle each associated with the predefined motion signature, and wherein the server computer system performs a machine learning analysis using the plurality of motion data to generate a server refined version of the predefined motion signature; receiving, at the vehicle from the server, the server refined version of the predefined motion signature; and transmitting, by the vehicle, a refined version of the predefined motion signature that is associated with the identifier to the mobile device to replace the predefined motion signature stored in the memory at the mobile device.
25. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the operations further comprise: detecting a trigger activated at the mobile device, wherein the one or more sensors are in an inactive state prior to detection of the trigger; and activating the one or more sensors for capture of the motion data in response to the detection of the trigger.
26. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the operations further comprise: transmitting, by the mobile device, the captured motion data with the generated motion based gesture command to the vehicle; generating, by the vehicle, a second motion signature from the captured motion data indicative of a motion of the mobile device; in response to determining that a motion based gesture command associated with the second motion signature generated by the vehicle matches the motion based gesture command received from the mobile device, operating the one or more vehicle systems.
27. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the mobile device comprises a key fob.
28. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the mobile device comprises one of a mobile telephone, a wearable device, or a tablet computer.
29. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the one or more sensors comprise an accelerometer and a gyroscope.
30. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the one or more sensors comprises an inertial measuring unit.
</claims>
</document>
