<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/02,H04W4/024,H04W4/029,H04W4/33
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Olive Seed Industries, LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
CELLA, CHARLES, H.
Soule, Christine
Spitz, Richard
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69414357
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR DEVELOPING A PERSONALIZED NON-PROFIT VENUE EXPERIENCE AND PRESENTING PERSONALIZED MULTIMEDIA TO A MOBILE COMPUTING DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A method for developing content for a personalized non-profit venue experience using a mobile computing device, comprising: providing an interface for management of a set of multimedia assets; receiving a mapping of multimedia assets to a set of locations on a site plan for the non-profit venue; receiving metadata for the set of multimedia assets; receiving personalized interest data indicating personal philanthropic interests of a visitor to the non-profit venue; and applying a machine learning algorithm to analyze the metadata and the personalized interest data to provide, to a mobile computing device, a selection of a multimedia asset from the set of multimedia assets for consumption by the visitor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for developing content for a personalized non-profit venue experience using a mobile computing device, comprising: providing an interface for management of a set of multimedia assets; receiving a mapping of multimedia assets to a set of locations on a site plan for a non-profit venue; receiving metadata for the set of multimedia assets; receiving personalized interest data indicating personal philanthropic interests of a visitor to the non-profit venue; and applying a machine learning algorithm to analyze the metadata and the personalized interest data to provide, to a mobile computing device, a selection of a multimedia asset from the set of multimedia assets for consumption by the visitor.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the non-profit venue is at least one of a museum and a zoo.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the selection of multimedia assets is provided as a sequence of locations as a route based on the locations of the multimedia assets on the site plan.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the personal philanthropic interests of the visitor are determined at least in part by providing an interface on the mobile computing device for receipt of personalized philanthropic interest data for the visitor to the non-profit venue when the visitor uses the mobile computing device.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the personal philanthropic interests of the visitor are determined at least in part by tracking an interaction of the visitor with an exhibit in the non-profit venue.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein tracking the interaction includes tracking a dwell time of the visitor at a location on the site plan.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the personal philanthropic interests of the visitor are determined at least in part by processing social media information of the visitor based on an identity of the visitor.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning algorithm assembles a sequence of multimedia assets based at least in part on a personal route taken by the visitor through the site plan for the non-profit venue.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning algorithm assembles a sequence based at least in part on selections made by the visitor on a mobile computing device.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the set of multimedia assets is interactive.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein at least one of the interactive multimedia assets is configured to initiate tracking of at least one of an audio, visual, tactile, and movement action of the visitor by the mobile computing device when the visitor comes within a defined proximity to the multimedia asset.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the interface for management of a set of multimedia assets further provides an interface for creating a campaign, wherein information about the campaign is displayed at a location of a multimedia asset, wherein the multimedia asset is related to the campaign.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the information about the campaign is to enable a multimedia interaction to promote the campaign in response to the mobile computing device being detected in proximity to the multimedia asset, wherein the visitor uses the mobile computing device, and wherein the multimedia interaction is selected from the group consisting of audio conferencing, video conferencing, virtual reality conferencing, collaborative text chat, holographic conferencing, and combinations thereof.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the interface for management of a set of multimedia assets further provides a heat map showing paths of a plurality of visitors through the non-profit venue.
15. The method of claim 2, wherein the interface for management of a set of multimedia assets further provides an interface for creating an interactive campaign related to a location on the site plan.
16. A method of automating content selection for a personalized non-profit venue experience, comprising: accessing a list of multimedia assets relating to a display in at least one site plan; receiving metadata to associate with the multimedia assets; receiving personalized interest data for a plurality of non-profit venue visitors, relating to multiple non-profit venues for each visitor, selected from among visitor-provided preference data, passively-collected visitor interaction data, and visitor route data; receiving preference data relating to a prospective non-profit venue visitor; applying a machine learning algorithm to analyze the metadata, the personalized interest data for the non-profit venue visitors, and the prospective visitor data; and generating a multimedia asset recommendation, selected from the list of multimedia assets, for the prospective visitor based at least in part on the machine learning algorithm analysis.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the personalized interest data is collected from visits by the visitor to multiple non-profit venues using a plurality of capture devices.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the personalized interest data is collected using a mobile application.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the personalized interest data is collected using one of a wireless beacon and a sensor network.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the personalized interest data is collected using one of a camera and a biometric sensor.
21. The method of claim 16, wherein the personalized interest data is collected by tracking a visitor interaction with a non-profit venue display, and wherein the multiple non-profit venues are classified into categories, and wherein preference data for a prospective visitor to a non-profit venue in a first category is collected from a visitor to another non-profit venue in another category of non-profit venues disrelated from the first category.
22. The method of claim 16, wherein the personalized interest data is collected by tracking a use by a visitor of a non-profit venue guide device.
</claims>
</document>
