<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L21/02,G10L25/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
OH, EUN MI
CHOO, KI HYUN
POROV, ANTON
SUNG, HO-SANG
JEONG, Jong-hoon
RYU, Jong-youb
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66247937
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC DEVICE AND CONTROL METHOD THEREFOR
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is an electronic apparatus. The electronic apparatus includes a storage for storing a plurality of filters trained in a plurality of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) respectively and a processor configured to acquire a first spectrogram corresponding to a damaged audio signal, input the first spectrogram to a CNN corresponding to each frequency band to apply the plurality of filters trained in the plurality of CNNs respectively, acquire a second spectrogram by merging output values of the CNNs to which the plurality of filters are applied, and acquire an audio signal reconstructed based on the second spectrogram.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic apparatus comprising: a storage for storing a plurality of filters trained in a plurality of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) respectively; and a processor configured to: acquire a first spectrogram corresponding to a damaged audio signal, input the first spectrogram to a CNN corresponding to each frequency band to apply the plurality of filters trained in the plurality of CNNs respectively, acquire a second spectrogram by merging output values of the CNNs to which the plurality of filters are applied, and acquire an audio signal reconstructed based on the second spectrogram.
2. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the plurality of CNNs comprise a first CNN into which a first spectrogram of a first frequency band is input and a second CNN into which a first spectrogram of a second frequency band is input, the plurality of filters comprise a first filter and a second filter trained in the first CNN and a third filter and a fourth filter trained in the second CNN, the first filter and third filter are trained based on the first frequency band and the second filter and the fourth filter are trained based on the second frequency band, the processor is further configured to: acquire a second spectrogram corresponding to the first frequency band by merging output values of the first CNN to which the first filter is applied and output values of the second CNN to which the third filter is applied, and acquire a second spectrogram corresponding to the second frequency band by merging output values of the first CNN to which the second filter is applied and output values of the second CNN to which the fourth filter is applied.
3. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: identify the first spectrogram in a frame unit, group a current frame and a previous frame in a predetermined number to input the grouped frames to the CNN corresponding to each frequency band, and acquire a reconstructed current frame by merging output values of the CNN respectively.
4. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of CNNs are included in a first CNN layer, wherein the processor is further configured to: acquire the second spectrogram by inputting an output value of the first CNN layer to a second CNN layer comprising a plurality of other CNNs, and a size of a filter included in the second CNN layer is different from a size of a filter included in the first CNN layer.
5. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to input the first spectrogram by the frequency bands to which the plurality of filters are applied to a sigmoid gate respectively, and acquire the second spectrogram by merging the first spectrogram by frequency bands output from the sigmoid gate.
6. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: an inputter, wherein the processor is further configured to: transform the damaged audio signal input through the inputter to the first spectrogram based on time and frequency, and acquire the reconstructed audio signal by inverse transforming the second spectrogram to an audio signal based on time and magnitude.
7. The electronic apparatus of claim 6, wherein the processor is further configured to acquire a compensated magnitude component by acquiring a magnitude component in the first spectrogram and inputting to corresponding CNNs by frequency bands and acquire the second spectrogram by combining a phase component of the first spectrogram and the compensated magnitude component.
8. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to input a frequency band which is greater than or equal to a predetermined magnitude, among frequency bands of the first spectrogram, to a corresponding CNN.
9. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to normalize and input the first spectrogram to a corresponding CNN by frequency bands, denormalize the second spectrogram, and acquire the reconstructed audio signal based on the denormalized second spectrogram.
10. A method of controlling an electronic apparatus, the method comprising: acquiring a first spectrogram corresponding to a damaged audio signal; inputting the first spectrogram to a CNN corresponding to each frequency band; applying a plurality of filters respectively trained in the CNN corresponding to each frequency band to the input first spectrogram; acquiring a second spectrogram by merging output valued of the CNNs to which the plurality of filters are applied; and acquiring an audio signal reconstructed based on the second spectrogram.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein: the plurality of CNNs comprise a first CNN into which a first spectrogram of a first frequency band is input and a second CNN into which a first spectrogram of a second frequency band is input, the plurality of filters comprise a first filter and a second filter trained in the first CNN and a third filter and a fourth filter trained in the second CNN, the first filter and third filter are trained based on the first frequency band and the second filter and the fourth filter are trained based on the second frequency band, the acquiring the second spectrogram comprises acquiring a second spectrogram corresponding to the first frequency band by merging output valued of the first CNN to which the first filter is applied and output valued of the second CNN to which the third filter is applied, and acquiring a second spectrogram corresponding to the second frequency band by merging output valued of the first CNN to which the second filter is applied and output valued of the second CNN to which the fourth filter is applied.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the inputting comprises identifying the first spectrogram in a frame unit, grouping a current frame and a previous frame in a predetermined number to input the grouped frames to the CNN corresponding to each frequency band, wherein the acquiring the second spectrogram comprises acquiring a reconstructed current frame by merging output values of the CNN respectively.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of CNNs are included in a first CNN layer, and wherein the acquiring the second spectrogram comprises acquiring the second spectrogram by inputting an output value of the first CNN layer to a second CNN layer comprising a plurality of other CNNs, and wherein a size of a filter included in the second CNN layer is different from a size of a filter included in the first CNN layer.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the acquiring the second spectrogram comprises inputting first spectrogram by the frequency bands to which the plurality of filters are applied to a sigmoid gate respectively, and acquiring the second spectrogram by merging the first spectrogram by frequency bands output from the sigmoid gate.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored therein a computer instruction which is executed by a processor of an electronic apparatus to perform the method comprising: acquiring a first spectrogram corresponding to a damaged audio signal; inputting the first spectrogram to a convolutional neural network (CNN) corresponding to each frequency band; applying a plurality of filters respectively trained in the CNN corresponding to each frequency band to the input first spectrogram; acquiring a second spectrogram by merging output values of the CNNs to which the plurality of filters are applied; and acquiring an audio signal reconstructed based on the second spectrogram.
</claims>
</document>
