<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-26
</priority_date>

<assignee>
CA
</assignee>

<inventors>
MANKOVSKII, SERGE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70325241
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VISUALIZATION-DASHBOARD NARRATION USING TEXT SUMMARIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is a process, including: obtaining, with one or more processors, data to be summarized, wherein the data comprises a plurality of metrics; generating, with one or more processors, a plurality of instances of data visualizations depicting at least some of the data by systematically varying: type of data visualization, and mapping of fields of the data to data visualizations; generating, with one or more processors, with a trained captioning model, intermediate natural language text summaries of each of the instances of data visualizations; summarizing, with one or more processors, with a natural language text summarization model, the intermediate natural language text summaries to form a natural language text description of the data; and storing, with one or more processors, the natural language text description of the data in memory.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: obtaining, with one or more processors, data to be summarized, wherein the data comprises a plurality of metrics; generating, with one or more processors, a plurality of instances of data visualizations depicting at least some of the data by systematically varying: type of data visualization, and mapping of fields of the data to data visualizations; generating, with one or more processors, with a trained captioning model, intermediate natural language text summaries of each of the instances of data visualizations; summarizing, with one or more processors, with a natural language text summarization model, the intermediate natural language text summaries to form a natural language text description of the data; and storing, with one or more processors, the natural language text description of the data in memory.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the method comprises causing the natural language text description of the data to be presented to a user; the data comprises metrics of a monitored system obtained over time; the instances of data visualizations are not displayed to the user; the plurality of instances comprises more than 1,000 instances; and the natural language text description of the data comprises a prose description of information about the data determined to be semantically significant by the natural language text summarization model.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein generating, with one or more processors, a plurality of instances of data visualizations depicting at least some of the data comprises systematically varying attributes of data visualizations, the attributes being different from the type of data visualization and mapping of fields of the data to data visualizations.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the plurality of instances of data visualizations depicting at least some of the data comprises systematically varying: extent of fields of the data depicted in the instances of data visualizations; number of fields of the data depicted in the instances of data visualizations; and quantization size of values of the fields of the data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein at least some of the instances of data visualizations are not rendered to a display.
6. The method of claim 1, comprising causing the natural language text description of the data to be visually presented to a user.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein causing the natural language text description of the data to be presented to a user comprises: converting the natural language text summary to audio with a speech synthesizer; and causing the natural language text description of the data to be audibly presented to the user by the audio.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein: the trained captioning model comprises a long-short term memory model trained to generate text descriptions of data visualizations.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein: the natural language text summarization model is an extraction-based text summarization model.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein: the natural language text summarization model is an abstraction-based text summarization model.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein: the natural language text summarization model is configured to de-duplicate intermediate text summaries to summarize the intermediate natural language text summaries.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein: the natural language text summarization model is configured to cluster intermediate natural language text summaries determined to be semantically similar with a bag-of-words natural language processing model; and summarize resulting clusters in corresponding portions of the natural language text description of the data.
13. The method of claim 1, comprising: causing the natural language text description of the data to be presented to a user; receiving a natural language query from the user after causing the natural language text description of the data to be presented to the user; selecting intermediate natural language text summaries responsive to the query; and summarizing, with the natural language text summarization model, the selected intermediate natural language text summaries to form a natural language text query response; and causing the natural language text query response to be presented to the user.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein: selecting intermediate natural language text summaries responsive to the query comprises disambiguating the query based on context from the natural language text description of the data presented to the user.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein: generating the plurality of instances of data visualizations depicting at least some of the data comprises configuring data visualizations for every permutation in an envelope of a six or higher dimensional data-visualization configuration space.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein: generating intermediate natural language text summaries comprises steps for captioning instances of data visualizations; and summarizing the intermediate natural language text summaries comprises steps for summarizing text.
17. A tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable medium storing instructions that when executed by one or more processors effectuate operations comprising: obtaining, with one or more processors, data to be summarized, wherein the data comprises a plurality of metrics; generating, with one or more processors, a plurality of instances of data visualizations depicting at least some of the data by systematically varying: type of data visualization, and mapping of fields of the data to data visualizations; generating, with one or more processors, with a trained captioning model, intermediate natural language text summaries of each of the instances of data visualizations; summarizing, with one or more processors, with a natural language text summarization model, the intermediate natural language text summaries to form a natural language text description of the data; and storing, with one or more processors, the natural language text description of the data in memory.
18. The medium of claim 17, wherein: the method comprises causing the natural language text description of the data to be presented to a user; the data comprises metrics of a monitored system obtained over time; the instances of data visualizations are not displayed to the user; the plurality of instances comprises more than 1,000 instances; and the natural language text description of the data comprises a prose description of information about the data determined to be semantically significant by the natural language text summarization model.
19. The medium of claim 17, wherein generating, with one or more processors, a plurality of instances of data visualizations depicting at least some of the data comprises systematically varying attributes of data visualizations, the attributes being different from the type of data visualization and mapping of fields of the data to data visualizations.
20. The medium of claim 17, wherein generating the plurality of instances of data visualizations depicting at least some of the data comprises systematically varying: extent of fields of the data depicted in the instances of data visualizations; number of fields of the data depicted in the instances of data visualizations; and quantization size of values of the fields of the data.
</claims>
</document>
