<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-10-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/60,G06F21/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTERNET INFRASTRUCTURE SERVICES CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAVANAUGH, STEVEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52993640
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods of Dynamically Securing Electronic Devices and Other Communications Through Environmental and Systems Measurements Leveraging Tailored Trustworthy Spaces and Conditions Authentication
</title>

<abstract>
This invention is for a system capable of securing one or more fixed or mobile computing device and connected system. Each device is configured to change its operating posture by allowing, limiting, or disallowing access to applications, application features, devices features, data, and other information based on the current Tailored Trustworthy Space (TTS) definitions and rules which provided for various situationally dependent scenarios. Multiple TTS may be defined for a given deployment, each of which specifies one or more sensors and algorithms for combining sensor data from the device, other connected devices, and/or other data sources from which the current TTS is identified. The device further achieves security by loading digital credentials through a unidirectional multidimensional physical representation process which allows for the device to obtain said credentials without the risk of compromising the credential issuing system through the data transfer process. This secure system methodology may be used to create a Mobile Secure Compartmentalized Information Facility (M-SCIF), among other applications.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for securely performing two factor authentication on a first device comprising a lock and configured to perform a traditional unlocking method, wherein: the first device can unlock the lock using the traditional unlocking method only when an authentication token is present; the first device is communicably coupled to a second device comprising a first sensor and at least one of tailored trustworthy space rule ("TTS rule"); and the second device comprises the authentication token.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the presence of the authentication token is defined by the proximity of the second device to the first device.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein: said second device obtains a first measurement from the first sensor, said second device compares the first measurement to one or more values defined by the at least one TTS rule, wherein: the presence of the authentication token is determined when the said comparison satisfies the at least one TTS rule.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein: the first sensor comprises an accelerometer; the first measurement comprises obtaining acceleration data from the accelerometer; and said comparing the first measurement to the at least one TTS rule comprises comparing the acceleration data to one or more predetermined acceleration values defined by the at least one TTS rule.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein: the first sensor comprises a location providing sensor; the first measurement comprises obtaining location data from the location providing sensor; and said comparing the first measurement to the at least one TTS rule comprises comparing the location data to one or more predetermined location values defined by the at least one TTS rule.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein: the location providing sensor comprises at least one of GPS, network, WiFi, cellular, or external data source.
7. The method of claim 3 wherein: the first sensor comprises at least one of an accelerometer; gyroscope; ambient light sensor; device screen backlight level sensor; audio sensor (including microphone); GPS or other location or positioning providing sensor; camera; WiFi; cellular; packet radio; data radio; voice radio; bluetooth; thermometer; barometer; biometric input; Near Field Communication (NFC); camera; proximity sensor; radiation, chemical, or biological detector; biomechanics sensor; biomedical sensor; electric or magnetic field sensor; electromagnetic spectrum analyzer; electromagnetic signal detector; infrared sensor; infrared camera; sonar imaging; sonar range finder; laser range finder; software sensor including values provided by the device hardware, operating system; and other sensors regarding a current operational state and configuration of the second device.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first device is communicably coupled to a second device using at least one of BlueTooth, NFC, WiFi, or directly wired connection.
9. The method of claim 1, where the traditional unlocking method comprises at least one of a key or a passcode.
10. A system for securing two devices using tailored trustworthy space rules ("TTS rules"), the system comprising: a first device comprising a first processor, a first memory, and a sensor, wherein the first processor is communicatively coupled to the first memory and the sensor; a second device comprising a second processor, a second memory, a lock, and a means for performing a traditional unlocking method; wherein the first and second devices are communicably coupled; wherein the first memory contains a first TTS rule; wherein the first processor is configured to obtain a first measurement from the sensor; wherein the first processor is configured to perform a first check comparing the first measurement against one or more values defined by the first TTS rule; and wherein, upon passing the first check, the first processor is configured to transmit the first measurement to the second processor; wherein the second memory contains a second TTS rule; and wherein the second processor is configured to perform a second check comparing the first measurement against one or more values defined by the second TTS rule.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the second processor is further configured to: upon passing the second check, allow the traditional unlocking method to unlock the lock.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the second processor is further configured to: upon failing the second check, prevent the traditional unlocking method from unlocking the lock.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein: the first sensor comprises at least one of an accelerometer; gyroscope; ambient light sensor; device screen backlight level sensor; audio sensor (including microphone); GPS or other location or positioning providing sensor; camera; WiFi; cellular; packet radio; data radio; voice radio; bluetooth; thermometer; barometer; biometric input; Near Field Communication (NFC); camera; proximity sensor; radiation, chemical, or biological detector; biomechanics sensor; biomedical sensor; electric or magnetic field sensor; electromagnetic spectrum analyzer; electromagnetic signal detector; infrared sensor; infrared camera; sonar imaging; sonar range finder; laser range finder; software sensor including values provided by the device hardware, operating system; and other sensors regarding a current operational state and configuration of the second device.
14. A non-transitory tangible storage medium storing machine-readable instructions for securing a device using tailored trustworthy space rules ("TTS rules"), wherein a first device comprises a lock and a traditional unlocking method that performs a first action, and wherein the instructions, when executed by a processor in the first device, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: obtaining a first measurement from a second device; prior to allowing the traditional unlocking method to unlock the lock, comparing the first measurement from the second device against one or more values defined by a first TTS rule; if the first measurement satisfies the first TTS rule, allowing the traditional unlocking method to unlock the lock; and if the first measurement fails the first TTS rule, preventing the traditional unlocking method from unlocking the lock; wherein, the first measurement was obtained from a first sensor on the second device, said first sensor comprising at least one of an accelerometer; gyroscope; ambient light sensor; device screen backlight level sensor; audio sensor (including microphone); GPS or other location or positioning providing sensor; camera; WiFi; cellular; packet radio; data radio; voice radio; bluetooth; thermometer; barometer; biometric input; Near Field Communication (NFC); camera; proximity sensor; radiation, chemical, or biological detector; biomechanics sensor; biomedical sensor; electric or magnetic field sensor; electromagnetic spectrum analyzer; electromagnetic signal detector; infrared sensor; infrared camera; sonar imaging; sonar range finder; laser range finder; software sensor including values provided by the device hardware, operating system; and other sensors regarding a current operational state and configuration of the second device.
</claims>
</document>
