<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,G06F3/01,G06F9/48,G06F9/50,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEARD, TIMOTHY GILES
WRIGHT, CHRISTOPHER JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66810731
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RESOURCE ACCESS
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus comprising means for performing: at a first time, controlling whether a user is granted access to a resource based on a response of the user to a first access task, and setting one or more restrictions on granted access to the resource based on the response of the user to the first access task; at a second time, controlling whether the user is granted access to the resource based on a response of the user to a second access task, different to the first access task, and setting one or more restrictions on granted access to the resource based on the response of the user to the second access task; and initiating a change from the first access task to the second access task, wherein the initiation of the change is causally independent of the response of the user to the first access task.
</abstract>

<claims>
I/we claim:
1. An apparatus comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus at least to perform: at a first time: controlling whether or not a user is granted access to at least one resource based on an obtained response of the user to a first access task, and setting one or more restrictions on granted access to the at least one resource based on the obtained response of the user to the first access task, at a second time: controlling whether or not the user is granted access to the at least one resource based on an obtained response of the user to a second access task, different to the first access task, and setting one or more restrictions on granted access to the at least one resource based on the obtained response of the user to the second access task; and initiating a change from the first access task to the second access task, wherein the initiation of the change is causally independent of the obtained response of the user to the first access task.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein setting one or more restrictions on granted access comprises controlling one or more permissions of the at least one resource to at least one system resource via which the user can interact with the at least one resource.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein setting one or more restrictions on granted access comprises granting access for the user to at least one of a plurality of resources and denying access for the user to at least one other of the plurality of resources.
4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein setting one or more restrictions on granted access to the at least one resource comprises setting a time limit on the granted access.
5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein setting one or more restrictions on granted access to the at least one resource comprises controlling settings of at least one system resource via which the user can interact with the at least one resource.
6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first and second access task comprise rendering one or more target elements rendered to the user for identification by the user.
7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the first access task differs from the second access task in respect of one or more distractor elements rendered to the user.
8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the change from the first access task to the second access task comprises changing one or more of: a ratio; a proximity; a similarity; or a relative movement, of the one or more distractor elements to the one or more target elements.
9. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus at least to further perform: obtaining gaze-tracking data of the user; and determining when a fixation position of a gaze of the user matches a rendered position of the one or more target elements, wherein the obtained response of the user to the first and/or second access task is based on a duration and/or frequency of the fixation position of the gaze of the user matching the rendered position of the one or more target elements.
10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus at least to further perform: preventing access to the at least one resource if the determined response of the user is within a first class of responses; setting first one or more restrictions on granted access to the at least one resource if the determined response of the user is within a second class of responses; and setting second one or more restrictions, different to the first restrictions, on granted access to the at least one resource if the measured response of the user is within a third class of responses.
11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus at least to further perform: classifying the obtained response of the user to the first and/or second access task; controlling whether or not a user is granted access to at least one resource based on a classification of the determined response of the user; and setting one or more restrictions on granted access to the at least one resource based on the classification of the determined response of the user.
12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the initiation of the change from the first access task to the second access task is causally dependent on a change, occurring between the first and second times, in one or more values of one or more monitored parameters which vary with actions of the user.
13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus at least to further perform: obtaining an expected usage of the at least one resource at the first time and at the second time based on the one or more values of the one or more monitored parameters at the first and second time respectively; and initiating the change from the first access task to the second access task if the expected usage at the second time is different to the expected usage at the first time.
14. A method comprising: at a first time: controlling whether or not a user is granted access to at least one resource based on an obtained response of the user to a first access task, and setting one or more restrictions on granted access to the at least one resource based on the obtained response of the user to the first access task, at a second time: controlling whether or not the user is granted access to the at least one resource based on an obtained response of the user to a second access task, different to the first access task, and setting one or more restrictions on granted access to the at least one resource based on the obtained response of the user to the second access task; and automatically initiating a change from the first access task to the second access task, wherein the initiation of the change is causally independent of the obtained response of the user to the first access task.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein setting one or more restrictions on granted access comprises controlling one or more permissions of the at least one resource to at least one system resource via which the user can interact with the at least one resource.
16. The method of claim 14 wherein the initiation of the change from the first access task to the second access task is causally dependent on a change, occurring between the first and second times, in one or more values of one or more monitored parameters which vary with actions of the user.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: obtaining an expected usage of the at least one resource at the first time and at the second time based on the one or more values of the one or more monitored parameters at the first and second time respectively; and initiating the change from the first access task to the second access task if the expected usage at the second time is different to the expected usage at the first time.
18. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising program instructions stored thereon for performing at least the following:: at a first time: controlling whether or not a user is granted access to at least one resource based on an obtained response of the user to a first access task, and setting one or more restrictions on granted access to the at least one resource based on the obtained response of the user to the first access task, at a second time: controlling whether or not the user is granted access to the at least one resource based on an obtained response of the user to a second access task, different to the first access task, and setting one or more restrictions on granted access to the at least one resource based on the obtained response of the user to the second access task; and initiating a change from the first access task to the second access task, wherein the initiation of the change is causally independent of the obtained response of the user to the first access task.
19. A non-transitory computer readable medium as claimed in claim 18, wherein the initiation of the change from the first access task to the second access task is causally dependent on a change, occurring between the first and second times, in one or more values of one or more monitored parameters which vary with actions of the user.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium as claimed in claim 19, further comprising program instructions stored thereon for performing at least: obtaining an expected usage of the at least one resource at the first time and at the second time based on the one or more values of the one or more monitored parameters at the first and second time respectively; and initiating the change from the first access task to the second access task if the expected usage at the second time is different to the expected usage at the first time.
</claims>
</document>
