<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALVAREZ, IGNACIO J.
FELIP LEON, JAVIER
GONZALEZ AGUIRRE, DAVID ISRAEL
TUREK, JAVIER SEBASTIAN
Perez -Ramirez, Javier
Tepper, Mariano
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72748061
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NEURAL NETWORK VERIFICATION BASED ON COGNITIVE TRAJECTORIES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, apparatuses and methods may provide for technology that identifies a cognitive space that is to be a compressed representation of activations of a neural network, maps a plurality of activations of the neural network to a cognitive initial point and a cognitive destination point in the cognitive space and generates a first cognitive trajectory through the cognitive space, wherein the first cognitive trajectory traverses the cognitive space from the cognitive initial point to the cognitive destination point
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computing device comprising: a network controller to communicate with one or more electronic devices that are to implement a neural network; a graphics processor; a central processing unit; and a memory including a set of instructions, which when executed by one or more of the graphics processor or the central processing unit, cause the computing device to: identify a cognitive space that is to be a compressed representation of activations of the neural network; map a plurality of activations of the neural network to a cognitive initial point and a cognitive destination point in the cognitive space; and generate a first cognitive trajectory through the cognitive space, wherein the first cognitive trajectory is to traverse the cognitive space from the cognitive initial point to the cognitive destination point.
2. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing device to: determine whether to retrain the neural network based on whether a validity score associated with the first cognitive trajectory meets a threshold.
3. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing device to: sample the first cognitive trajectory to identify one or more intermediate points in the cognitive space; and decode the one or more intermediate points into an input space to generate input points in the input space.
4. The computing device of claim 3, wherein: at least one of the plurality of activations is to be associated with an initial data point from the input space; at least one of the plurality of activations is to be associated with a destination data point from the input space; and the cognitive initial point is to correspond to the initial data point and the cognitive destination point is to correspond to the destination data point.
5. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing device to: identify a plurality of trajectories through the cognitive space; and generate a validity score based on a ratio of coherent trajectories from the plurality of trajectories and incoherent trajectories from the plurality of trajectories.
6. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the neural network is to be associated with a first number of dimensions and the cognitive space is to be associated with a second number of dimensions, wherein the second number of dimensions is to be less than the first number of dimensions.
7. A semiconductor apparatus comprising: one or more substrates; and logic coupled to the one or more substrates, wherein the logic is implemented in one or more of configurable logic or fixed-functionality logic hardware, the logic coupled to the one or more substrates to: identify a cognitive space that is to be a compressed representation of activations of a neural network; map a plurality of activations of the neural network to a cognitive initial point and a cognitive destination point in the cognitive space; and generate a first cognitive trajectory through the cognitive space, wherein the first cognitive trajectory is to traverse the cognitive space from the cognitive initial point to the cognitive destination point.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the logic coupled to the one or more substrates is to: determine whether to retrain the neural network based on whether a validity score associated with the first cognitive trajectory meets a threshold.
9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the logic coupled to the one or more substrates is to: sample the first cognitive trajectory to identify one or more intermediate points in the cognitive space; and decode the one or more intermediate points into an input space to generate input points in the input space.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein: at least one of the plurality of activations is to be associated with an initial data point from the input space; at least one of the plurality of activations is to be associated with a destination data point from the input space; and the cognitive initial point is to correspond to the initial data point and the cognitive destination point is to correspond to the destination data point.
11. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the logic is to: identify a plurality of trajectories through the cognitive space; and generate a validity score based on a ratio of coherent trajectories from the plurality of trajectories and incoherent trajectories from the plurality of trajectories.
12. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the neural network is to be associated with a first number of dimensions and the cognitive space is to be associated with a second number of dimensions, wherein the second number of dimensions is to be less than the first number of dimensions.
13. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the logic coupled to the one or more substrates includes transistor channel regions that are positioned within the one or more substrates.
14. At least one computer readable storage medium comprising a set of instructions, which when executed by a computing device, cause the computing device to: identify a cognitive space that is to be a compressed representation of activations of a neural network; map a plurality of activations of the neural network to a cognitive initial point and a cognitive destination point in the cognitive space; and generate a first cognitive trajectory through the cognitive space, wherein the first cognitive trajectory is to traverse the cognitive space from the cognitive initial point to the cognitive destination point.
15. The at least one computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing device to: determine whether to retrain the neural network based on a whether validity score associated with the first cognitive trajectory meets a threshold.
16. The at least one computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing device to: sample the first cognitive trajectory to identify one or more intermediate points in the cognitive space; and decode the one or more intermediate points into an input space to generate input points in the input space.
17. The at least one computer readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein: at least one of the plurality of activations is to be associated with an initial data point from the input space; at least one of the plurality of activations is to be associated with a destination data point from the input space; and the cognitive initial point is to correspond to the initial data point and the cognitive destination point is to correspond to the destination data point.
18. The at least one computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing device to: identify a plurality of trajectories through the cognitive space; and generate a validity score based on a ratio of coherent trajectories from the plurality of trajectories and incoherent trajectories from the plurality of trajectories.
19. The at least one computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the neural network is to be associated with a first number of dimensions and the cognitive space is to be associated with a second number of dimensions, wherein the second number of dimensions is to be less than the first number of dimensions.
20. A method comprising: identifying a cognitive space that is to be a compressed representation of activations of a neural network; mapping a plurality of activations of the neural network to a cognitive initial point and a cognitive destination point in the cognitive space; and generating a first cognitive trajectory through the cognitive space, wherein the first cognitive trajectory traverses the cognitive space from the cognitive initial point to the cognitive destination point.
21. The method of claim 20, further including: determining whether to retrain the neural network based on whether a validity score associated with the first cognitive trajectory meets a threshold.
22. The method of claim 20, further including: sampling the first cognitive trajectory to identify one or more intermediate points in the cognitive space; and decoding the one or more intermediate points into an input space to generate input points in the input space.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein: at least one of the plurality of activations is to be associated with an initial data point from the input space; at least one of the plurality of activations is to be associated with a destination data point from the input space; and the cognitive initial point is to correspond to the initial data point and the cognitive destination point is to correspond to the destination data point.
24. The method of claim 20, further including: identifying a plurality of trajectories through the cognitive space; and generating a validity score based on a ratio of coherent trajectories from the plurality of trajectories and incoherent trajectories from the plurality of trajectories.
25. The method of claim 20, wherein the neural network is to be associated with a first number of dimensions and the cognitive space is to be associated with a second number of dimensions, wherein the second number of dimensions is less than the first number of dimensions.
</claims>
</document>
