<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G06N3/08,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DermAI CO., Ltd.
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI, YU-CHUAN
Chin, Yen-Po
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73457060
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR IDENTIFYING SKIN TEXTURE AND SKIN LESION USING ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE CLOUD-BASED PLATFORM
</title>

<abstract>
A method and a system for identifying skin texture and skin lesion using artificial intelligence cloud-based platform are provided. The system includes an electronic device and a server. The server includes a storage device and a processor. The processor is coupled to the storage device, and accesses and executes multiple modules stored in the storage device. The multiple modules include an information receiving module, for receiving a captured image and multiple user parameters; a feature vector obtaining module, for obtaining a first feature vector of the captured image and calculating a second feature vector of the multiple user parameters; a skin parameter obtaining module, for obtaining an output result associated with skin parameters according to the first feature vector and the second feature vector; and a skin identification module, for determining a skin identification result according to the output result of the skin parameters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for identifying skin texture and skin lesion using artificial intelligence cloud-based platform, comprising: an electronic device, for obtaining a captured image and a plurality of user parameters; and a server, connected to the electronic device, the server comprising: a storage device, for storing a plurality of modules; and a processor, coupled to the storage device, for accessing and executing the plurality of modules stored in the storage device, the plurality of modules comprising: an information receiving module, for receiving the captured image and the plurality of user parameters; a feature vector obtaining module, for obtaining a first feature vector of the captured image and for calculating a second feature vector of the plurality of user parameters; a skin parameter obtaining module, for obtaining an output result associated with skin parameters according to the first feature vector and the second feature vector; and a skin identification module, for determining a skin identification result corresponding to the captured image according to the output result.
2. The system for identifying skin texture and skin lesion using artificial intelligence cloud-based platform according to claim 1, wherein the operation of the feature vector obtaining module obtaining the first feature vector of the captured image comprises: obtaining the first feature vector of the captured image using a machine learning model.
3. The system for identifying skin texture and skin lesion using artificial intelligence cloud-based platform according to claim 1, wherein the operation of the feature vector obtaining module calculating the second feature vector of the plurality of user parameters comprises: representing each of the plurality of user parameters using a vector; and combining each of a plurality of vectorized user parameters and inputting each of the plurality of vectorized user parameters to a fully connected layer of a machine learning model to obtain the second feature vector.
4. The system for identifying skin texture and skin lesion using artificial intelligence cloud-based platform according to claim 3, wherein the plurality of user parameters comprise a combination of a gender parameter, an age parameter, an affected area size, a time parameter, or an affected area change parameter.
5. The system for identifying skin texture and skin lesion using artificial intelligence cloud-based platform according to claim 1, wherein the operation of the skin parameter obtaining module obtaining the output result associated with the skin parameters according to the first feature vector and the second feature vector comprises: combining the first feature vector and the second feature vector to obtain a combined vector; and inputting the combined vector into a fully connected layer of a machine learning model to obtain the output result, wherein the output result is associated with a loss/cost probability of the skin parameter.
6. The system for identifying skin texture and skin lesion using artificial intelligence cloud-based platform according to claim 5, wherein the operation of the skin identification module determining the skin identification result corresponding to the captured image according to the skin parameters comprises: determining the skin identification result corresponding to the captured image according to the output result.
7. The system for identifying skin texture and skin lesion using artificial intelligence cloud-based platform according to claim 2, wherein the machine learning model comprises a convolutional neural network or a deep neural network.
8. A method for identifying skin texture and skin lesion using artificial intelligence cloud-based platform, applicable to a server having a processor, the method comprising: receiving a captured image and a plurality of user parameters; obtaining a first feature vector of the captured image and calculating a second feature vector of the plurality of user parameters; obtaining an output result associated with skin parameters according to the first feature vector and the second feature vector; and determining a skin identification result corresponding to the captured image according to the output result.
9. The method for identifying skin texture and skin lesion using artificial intelligence cloud-based platform according to claim 8, wherein the step of obtaining the first feature vector of the captured image comprises: obtaining the first feature vector of the captured image using a machine learning model.
10. The method for identifying skin texture and skin lesion using artificial intelligence cloud-based platform according to claim 8, wherein the step of calculating the second feature vector of the plurality of user parameters comprises: representing each of the plurality of user parameters using a vector; and combining each of a plurality of vectorized user parameters and inputting each of the plurality of vectorized user parameters into a fully connected layer of a machine learning model to obtain the second feature vector.
11. The method for identifying skin texture and skin lesion using artificial intelligence cloud-based platform according to claim 10, wherein the plurality of user parameters comprises a combination of a gender parameter, an age parameter, an affected area size, a time parameter, or an affected area change parameter.
12. The method for identifying skin texture and skin lesion using artificial intelligence cloud-based platform according to claim 8, wherein the step of obtaining the output result associated with the skin parameters according to the first feature vector and the second feature vector comprises: combing the first feature vector and the second feature vector to obtain a combined vector; and inputting the combined vector into a fully connected layer of a machine learning model to obtain the output result, wherein the output result is associated with a loss/cost probability of the skin parameter.
13. The method for identifying skin texture and skin lesion using artificial intelligence cloud-based platform according to claim 12, wherein the step of determining the skin identification result corresponding to the captured image according to the skin parameters comprises: determining the skin identification result corresponding to the captured image according to the output result.
14. The method for identifying skin texture and skin lesion using artificial intelligence cloud-based platform according to claim 9, wherein the machine learning model comprises a convolutional neural network or a deep neural network.
</claims>
</document>
