<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0346,G06F3/0354,G06F3/0488
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZSPACE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BERMAN ARTHUR L.
CHAMPION, CLIFFORD S.
CHAVEZ, DAVID A.
HOSENPUD, JONATHAN J.
YAMADA, KEVIN S.
Larsen, Christian R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74190152
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Trackability Enhancement of a Passive Stylus
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for enhancing trackability of a passive stylus. A six degree of freedom (6DoF) location and orientation of a passive stylus may be tracked by a tracking system via a retroreflector system disposed on the passive stylus. Additionally, characteristic movements of one of a user's finger, hand, and/or wrist may be recognized by the tracking system. The passive stylus may useable to interact with a virtual 3D scene being displayed via a 3D display. A user input via the passive stylus may be determined based on the tracked 6DoF location and orientation of the passive stylus and/or the recognized characteristic movements. The retroreflector system may include multiple patterns of retroreflectors and one of the patterns may be a spiral pattern of retroreflectors disposed along a longitudinal axis of the passive stylus.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer readable memory medium storing programming instructions executable by processing circuitry of a wireless device comprising a three dimensional (3D) display to: track six degree of freedom (6DoF) location and orientation of a passive stylus via a retroreflector system disposed on the passive stylus, wherein the passive stylus is useable to interact with a virtual 3D scene displayed via the 3D display of the wireless device; recognize characteristic movements of one of a user's finger, hand, and/or wrist; and determine, based on the tracked 6DoF location and orientation of the passive stylus and the recognized characteristic movements, a user input via the passive stylus.
2. The non-transitory computer readable memory medium of claim 1, wherein, to track the 6DoF location and orientation of the passive stylus, the programming instructions are further executable to: track each retroreflector of the retroreflector system; and for each retroreflector: compare a current location of the retroreflector to a prior location of the retroreflector; and determine a change in location based on the comparison, wherein the change in location is useable to determine the 6DoF position and orientation of the passive stylus.
3. The non-transitory computer readable memory medium of claim 1, wherein, to track the 6DoF location and orientation of the passive stylus, the programming instructions are further executable to: track the retroreflector system via an image tracking system comprised in the wireless device, and wherein the tracking system comprises at least two cameras.
4. The non-transitory computer readable memory medium of claim 1, wherein, to track the 6DoF location and orientation of the passive stylus, the programming instructions are further executable to: distinguish each retroreflector of the retroreflector system based on a shape of each retroreflector.
5. The non-transitory computer readable memory medium of claim 1, wherein, to track the 6DoF location and orientation of the passive stylus, the programming instructions are further executable to: distinguish a first group of retroreflectors of the retroreflector system based on a shape of the first group of retroreflectors.
6. The non-transitory computer readable memory medium of claim 1, wherein one of a bar code or a quick response code is disposed on the passive stylus, wherein characteristics associated with the passive stylus are indicated by the bar code or quick response code.
7. The non-transitory computer readable memory medium of claim 6, wherein the programming instructions are further executable to determine characteristics, including a first pattern of the retroreflector system, based on scanning one of the bar code or the quick response code disposed on the passive stylus.
8. The non-transitory computer readable memory medium of claim 1, wherein the 6DoF position and orientation of the passive stylus is relative to the 3D display.
9. The non-transitory computer readable memory medium of claim 1, wherein a first pattern of the retroreflector system comprises a spiral pattern of retroreflectors along a longitudinal axis of the passive stylus.
10. The non-transitory computer readable memory medium of claim 1, wherein the retroreflector system comprises a first pattern and a second pattern, wherein the first pattern comprises a spiral pattern of retroreflectors along a longitudinal axis of the passive stylus, and wherein the second pattern comprises a set of retroreflectors dispersed along and around a length of the passive stylus.
11. The non-transitory computer readable memory medium of claim 1, wherein the user input comprises a button press.
12. The non-transitory computer readable memory medium of claim 11, wherein the programming instructions are further executable to: determine that the user input comprises the button press, based, at least in part, on a characteristic movement of a user's finger, hand, and/or wrist at a specified location on the passive stylus.
13. The non-transitory computer readable memory medium of claim 12, wherein the specified location comprises a faux button.
14. The non-transitory computer readable memory medium of claim 13, wherein the faux button comprises one of a raised area on the passive stylus, a depressed area on the passive stylus, a visible marker on the passive stylus, or an area of differing texture on the passive stylus.
15. The non-transitory computer readable memory medium of claim 1, wherein the characteristic movements aid in determination of a roll angle and/or a change in roll angle of the passive stylus.
16. 16.-45. (canceled)
46. The non-transitory computer readable memory medium of claim 1, wherein the passive stylus does not require power.
47. The non-transitory computer readable memory medium of claim 1, wherein the passive stylus does not contain electronic components.
48. A wireless device, comprising: a memory; a three dimensional (3D) display; and processing circuitry in communication with the memory and the 3D display, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to cause the wireless device to: track six degree of freedom (6DoF) location and orientation of a passive stylus via a retroreflector system disposed on the passive stylus, wherein the passive stylus is useable to interact with a virtual 3D scene displayed via the 3D display; recognize characteristic movements of one of a user's finger, hand, and/or wrist; and determine, based on the tracked 6DoF location and orientation of the passive stylus and the recognized characteristic movements, a user input via the passive stylus.
49. The wireless device of claim 48, wherein the 6DoF position and orientation of the passive stylus is relative to the 3D display.
50. The wireless device of claim 48, wherein a first pattern of the retroreflector system comprises a spiral pattern of retroreflectors along a longitudinal axis of the passive stylus.
51. The wireless device of claim 48, wherein the retroreflector system comprises a first pattern and a second pattern, wherein the first pattern comprises a spiral pattern of retroreflectors along a longitudinal axis of the passive stylus, and wherein the second pattern comprises a set of retroreflectors dispersed along and around a length of the passive stylus.
52. The wireless device of claim 48, wherein the user input comprises a button press, and wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: determine that the user input comprises the button press, based, at least in part, on a characteristic movement of a user's finger, hand, and/or wrist at a specified location on the passive stylus.
53. The wireless device of claim 48, wherein the specified location comprises a faux button, and wherein the faux button comprises one of a raised area on the passive stylus, a depressed area on the passive stylus, a visible marker on the passive stylus, or an area of differing texture on the passive stylus.
54. The wireless device of claim 48, further comprising: at least one antenna; and at least one radio in communication with the at least one antenna and configured to perform wireless communication using at least one radio access technology (RAT).
55. A three dimensional (3D) stereoscopic display system, comprising: a memory; a 3D display; and processing circuitry in communication with the memory and the 3D display, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to cause the 3D stereoscopic display system to: track six degree of freedom (6DoF) location and orientation of a passive stylus via a retroreflector system disposed on the passive stylus, wherein the passive stylus is useable to interact with a virtual 3D scene displayed via the 3D display; recognize characteristic movements of one of a user's finger, hand, and/or wrist; and determine, based on the tracked 6DoF location and orientation of the passive stylus and the recognized characteristic movements, a user input via the passive stylus.
56. The 3D stereoscopic display system of claim 55, wherein, to track the 6DoF location and orientation of the passive stylus, the processing circuitry is further configured to: track each retroreflector of the retroreflector system; and for each retroreflector: compare a current location of the retroreflector to a prior location of the retroreflector; and determine a change in location based on the comparison, wherein the change in location is useable to determine the 6DoF position and orientation of the passive stylus.
57. The 3D stereoscopic display system of claim 55, further comprising: an image tracking system, wherein the tracking system comprises at least two cameras; and wherein, to track the 6DoF location and orientation of the passive stylus, the processing circuitry is further configured to: track the retroreflector system via the image tracking system.
58. The 3D stereoscopic display system of claim 55, wherein, to track the 6DoF location and orientation of the passive stylus, the processing circuitry is further configured to: distinguish each retroreflector of the retroreflector system based on a shape of each retroreflector.
59. The 3D stereoscopic display system of claim 55, wherein, to track the 6DoF location and orientation of the passive stylus, the processing circuitry is further configured to: distinguish a first group of retroreflectors of the retroreflector system based on a shape of the first group of retroreflectors.
60. The 3D stereoscopic display system of claim 55, wherein one of a bar code or a quick response code is disposed on the passive stylus, wherein characteristics associated with the passive stylus are indicated by the bar code or quick response code, and wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to determine characteristics, including a first pattern of the retroreflector system, based on scanning one of the bar code or the quick response code disposed on the passive stylus.
</claims>
</document>
