<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/08,A61B5/103,A61B5/113,G08B21/02,G16H40/63,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RESMED SENSOR TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CELKA, PATRICK
COLEFAX, MICHAEL WACLAW
DE CHAZAL, PHILIP
FARRUGIA, STEVEN PAUL
FOX, NIALL
HENEGHAN, CONOR
JAVED, FAIZAN
KHUSHABA, RAMI
O'HARE, EMER
REDMOND, STEPHEN JAMES
SCHINDHELM, KLAUS HENRY
ZAFFARONI, ALBERTO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
49672180
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MONITORING CARDIO-PULMONARY HEALTH
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a cardio-pulmonary health monitoring apparatus. The apparatus comprises a contactless motion sensor configured to generate one or more movement signals representing bodily movement of a patient during a monitoring session; a processor; and a memory storing program instructions configured to cause the processor to carry out a method of processing the one or more movement signals. The method comprises extracting one or more sleep disordered breathing features from the one or more movement signals, and predicting whether a clinical event is likely to occur during a predetermined prediction horizon based on the one or more sleep disordered breathing features.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A monitoring apparatus comprising: a contactless motion sensor configured to generate one or more movement signals representing bodily movement of a patient during a monitoring session; a processor; and a memory storing program instructions configured to cause the processor to carry out a method of processing the one or more movement signals, the method comprising: selecting one or more epochs of the one or more movement signals during which the patient was asleep and not performing gross bodily movements by extracting one or more waveform length values from one or more epochs of the one or more movement signals and identifying one or more epochs in which an extracted waveform length value is less than a threshold; extracting one or more sleep disordered breathing (SDB) features from the one or more selected epochs of the one or more movement signals; and predicting whether a clinical event is likely to occur during a predetermined prediction horizon based on the one or more SDB features.
2. The monitoring apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more waveform length values are extracted by measuring cumulative changes in amplitude of the one or more movement signals.
3. The monitoring apparatus of claim 2, wherein the one or more waveform length values are measured as: where wi is a waveform length value, i is an epoch, c3 is a movement signal, and N is the number of samples in the epoch i of the movement signal c3.
4. The monitoring apparatus of claim 2, wherein the threshold is computed from one or more percentiles of the one or more waveform length values.
5. The monitoring apparatus of claim 2, wherein the threshold is an adaptive threshold that changes based on one or more percentiles of the one or more waveform length values.
6. The monitoring apparatus of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises sending an alert message to an external computing device dependent on the prediction.
7. The monitoring apparatus of claim 1, wherein the contactless motion sensor is a radio-frequency motion sensor configured to generate at least two movement signals based on respective transmitted radio-frequency signals that are in quadrature with each other.
8. The monitoring apparatus of claim 7, wherein the method comprises combining the two movement signals into a combined movement signal before the extracting.
9. The monitoring apparatus of claim 7, wherein the method comprises combining the SDB features extracted from each movement signal before the predicting.
10. A monitoring apparatus comprising: a contactless motion sensor configured to generate one or more movement signals representing bodily movement of a patient during a monitoring session; a processor; and a memory storing program instructions configured to cause the processor to carry out a method of processing the one or more movement signals, the method comprising: selecting one or more sections of the one or more movement signals during which the patient was asleep and not performing gross bodily movements: detecting one or more sleep disordered breathing (SDB) events in the one or more selected sections; confirming one or more of the detected SDB events as valid SDB events; and calculating one or more SDB features from the one or more confirmed SDB events, the one or more calculated SDB features being indicative of the severity of sleep-disordered breathing by the patient during the monitoring session.
11. The monitoring apparatus of claim 10, wherein at least one detected SDB event is confirmed as a valid SDB event, in part, by verifying that a respiratory effort envelope associated with the at least one detected SDB event dips below a threshold value for a time greater than a predetermined fraction of a modulation cycle length of the at least one detected SDB event.
12. The monitoring apparatus of claim 11, wherein the at least one detected SDB event is confirmed as a valid SDB event, in part, by verifying that one or more adjacent hyperpnea sections have a duration greater than a minimum value.
13. The monitoring apparatus of claim 10, wherein at least one detected SDB event is confirmed as a valid SDB event, in part, by computing at least one verification feature for the at least one detected SDB event and applying a rule-based inference engine to the at least one verification feature.
14. The monitoring apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one verification feature is a kurtosis of a section of a movement signal associated with the at least one detected SDB event.
15. The monitoring apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one verification feature is a waveform length value that is computed, in part, by measuring cumulative changes in amplitude of a section of a movement signal associated with the at least one detected SDB event.
16. The monitoring apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one verification feature is a degree of freedom of a section of a movement signal associated with the at least one detected SDB event.
17. The monitoring apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one verification feature is a mean value of a respiratory effort envelope associated with the at least one detected SDB event.
18. The monitoring apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one verification feature is an irregularity factor of a section of a movement signal associated with the at least one detected SDB event that is a ratio of a number of upward zero crossings and a number of peaks.
19. The monitoring apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one verification feature is a number of zero crossings of a section of a movement signal associated with the at least one detected SDB event.
20. The monitoring apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one verification feature is a phase locking value that is computed, in part, by determining an instantaneous phase difference between two halves of a section of a movement signal associated with the at least one detected SDB event.
21. The monitoring apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one verification feature is a binary indicator of the existence of artefacts in a section of a movement signal associated with the at least one detected SDB event.
22. The monitoring apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one verification feature is a modulation depth of a section of a movement signal associated with the at least one detected SDB event that is a ratio of a cycle percentage and an amplitude variation.
23. The monitoring apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one verification feature is a rise time of a section of a movement signal associated with the at least one detected SDB event.
24. The monitoring apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one verification feature is a standard deviation of a power spectrum of a section of a movement signal associated with the at least one detected SDB event.
25. The monitoring apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one verification feature is a frequency with a maximum power value in a power spectrum of a section of a movement signal associated with the at least one detected SDB event.
</claims>
</document>
