<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G11C11/406,G11C11/408
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICRON TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
REHMEYER, JAMES S.
MEIER, NATHANIEL J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72663231
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUSES AND METHODS FOR STAGGERED TIMING OF TARGETED REFRESH OPERATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the disclosure are drawn to apparatuses and methods for staggering the timing of targeted refresh operations. A memory device may include a number of memory banks, at least some of which may be simultaneously entered into a refresh mode. A given memory bank may perform an auto-refresh operation or a targeted refresh operation, which may draw less power than the auto-refresh operation. The timing of the targeted refresh operations may be staggered between the refreshing memory banks, such that a portion of the refreshing memory banks are performing a targeted refresh operation simultaneously with a portion of the refreshing memory banks performing an auto-refresh operation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: a first set of memory cells comprising a plurality of wordlines; a first refresh control circuit configured to, responsive to a refresh signal, provide a first refresh address associated with a first number of the plurality of wordlines of the first set of memory cells; a second set of memory cells comprising a plurality of wordlines; and a second refresh control circuit configured to, responsive to the refresh signal, provide a second refresh address associated with a second number of the plurality of wordlines of the second set of memory cells, wherein the first number is different than the second number, and wherein, responsive to the refresh signal, the first and the second refresh control circuits are configured to provide a plurality of activations of respective pump signals, and wherein the first and the second refresh addresses are provided responsive to a particular activation of the respective pump signals.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first set of memory cells comprises a first memory bank and the second set of memory cells comprises a second memory bank.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a first row control circuit configured to refresh the first number of the plurality of wordlines of the first set of memory cells associated with the first refresh address; and a second row control circuit configured to refresh the second number of the plurality of wordlines of the second set of memory cells associated with the second refresh address.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the first refresh address comprises a targeted refresh address and the second refresh address comprises an auto-refresh address.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first refresh control circuit provides the first refresh address simultaneous to the second refresh control circuit providing the second refresh address.
6. (canceled)
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein responsive to a different activation of the respective pump signals, the first refresh control circuit is configured to provide a third refresh address associated with the second number of the plurality of wordlines of the first group of memory cells, and the second refresh control circuit is configured to provide a fourth refresh address associated with the first number of the plurality of wordlines of the second group of memory cells.
8. An apparatus comprising: a first memory bank configured to perform a first type of refresh operation and configured to perform a second type of refresh operation at a first time; and a second memory bank configured to perform the first type of refresh operation and configured to perform the second type of refresh operation at a second time different than the first time, wherein the first type of refresh operation comprises refreshing a first number of word lines, and the second type of refresh operation comprises refreshing a second number of word lines different than the first number of word lines.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, where the first and the second memory bank are configured to perform a number of refresh operations responsive to a refresh signal, and wherein a portion of the refresh operations are the first type of refresh operation and the remaining refresh operations are the second type of refresh operation.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the first and the second memory banks are each configured to determine a number of the first type of refresh operation to perform and are each configured to perform the determined number of the first type of refresh operation.
11. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the first type of refresh operation comprises an auto-refresh operation and the second type of refresh operation comprises a targeted operation.
12. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein after performing the second type of refresh operation, the first memory bank begins performing the first type of refresh operation again.
13. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the first and the second memory banks are configured to perform the first and the second type of refresh operation with timing based on occurrence of a refresh signal.
14. An apparatus comprising: a plurality of memory banks each configured to refresh one or more wordlines associated with a refresh address; a plurality of refresh control circuits, each of the plurality of refresh control circuits associated with one of the plurality of memory banks, each of the plurality of refresh control circuits configured to cause the associated bank to perform a first type of refresh operation or a second type of refresh operation, wherein at least one of the plurality of memory banks performs the first type of refresh operation simultaneous to at least one other of the plurality of memory banks performing the second type of refresh operation, wherein the plurality of refresh control circuits receive a refresh signal in common, and provide at least one refresh address responsive to the refresh signal wherein the at least one refresh address is a first type of refresh address associated with the first type of refresh operation or a second type of refresh address associated with the second type of refresh operation, and wherein responsive to the refresh signal, each of the plurality of refresh control circuits generates a number of activations of a pump signal, and provides a refresh address responsive to each activation of the pump signal.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the first type of refresh operation is associated with a first number of wordlines, and wherein the second type of refresh operation is associated with a second number of wordlines greater than the first number.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first type of refresh operation comprises a targeted refresh operation and wherein the second type of refresh operation comprises an auto-refresh operation.
17. (canceled)
18. (canceled)
19. An apparatus comprising: a plurality of memory banks each configured to refresh one or more wordlines associated with a refresh address; a plurality of refresh control circuits, each of the plurality of refresh control circuits associated with one of the plurality of memory banks, each of the plurality of refresh control circuits configured to cause the associated bank to perform a first type of refresh operation or a second type of refresh operation, wherein at least one of the plurality of memory banks performs the first type of refresh operation simultaneous to at least one other of the plurality of memory banks performing the second type of refresh operation, wherein the plurality of refresh control circuits receive a refresh signal in common, and provide at least one refresh address responsive to the refresh signal wherein the at least one refresh address is a first type of refresh address associated with the first type of refresh operation, or a second type of refresh address associated with the second type of refresh operation, and wherein responsive to the refresh signal, a portion of the plurality of refresh control circuits provide the first type of refresh address while a remainder of the plurality of refresh control circuits provide the second type of refresh address.
20. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the plurality of memory banks are a subset of a number of memory banks in a memory device.
</claims>
</document>
