<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/00,G06T7/215,G06T7/73,G16H30/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON MEDICAL SYSTEMS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABE SHINGO
OHASHI, SHUMPEI
SHIRAISHI, KUNIO
TAKAHASHI, AKIHITO
WAKU TOSHIYA
HASHIMOTO, Saki
OGASAWARA, Jumpei
OIKAWA, Hirona
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70390895
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDICAL IMAGE PROCESSING APPARATUS, X-RAY DIAGNOSTIC APPARATUS, AND COMPUTER-IMPLEMENTED METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
According to one embodiment, a medical image processing apparatus includes processing circuitry. The processing circuitry specifies, before position alignment between a first X-ray image and a second X-ray image which is acquired with a device inserted, a device area candidate in the second X-ray image as a candidate of an area where the device appears. The processing circuitry performs the position alignment using first processing of removing the specified device area candidate or second processing of reducing a contribution of the specified device area candidate.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A medical image processing apparatus comprising: processing circuitry configured to specify, before position alignment between a first X-ray image and a second X-ray image which is acquired with a device inserted, a device area candidate in the second X-ray image as a candidate of an area where the device appears, and perform the position alignment using first processing of removing the specified device area candidate or second processing of reducing a contribution of the specified device area candidate.
2. The medical image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to detect a device area showing the device from the second X-ray image, and set the detected device area as the device area candidate.
3. The medical image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to specify the device area candidate based on a blood vessel image corresponding to the second X-ray image.
4. The medical image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to specify the device area candidate based on information about a motion between frames of the second X-ray image.
5. The medical image processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the first X-ray image is acquired with the device inserted, and the processing circuitry is configured to specify the device area where the device is included, in also the first X-ray image, and perform the position alignment by applying the first processing or the second processing to the specified two device areas.
6. The medical image processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the first processing comprises image processing to erase, from an X-ray image having been specified with the device area out of the first X-ray image and the second X-ray image, the device that appears in the device area, and the position alignment comprises performing the first processing on the X-ray image having been specified with the device area, calculating an index value of an amount of misalignment between the first X-ray image and the second X-ray image based on the X-ray image having been subjected to the first processing, and shifting the first X-ray image or the second X-ray image based on the calculated index value.
7. The medical image processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the second processing comprises image processing to blur, in an X-ray image having been specified with the device area out of the first X-ray image and the second X-ray image, the device that appears in the device area, and the position alignment comprises performing the second processing on the X-ray image having been specified with the device area, calculating an index value of an amount of misalignment between the first X-ray image and the second X-ray image based on the X-ray image having been subjected to the second processing, and shifting the first X-ray image or the second X-ray image based on the calculated index value.
8. The medical image processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the first processing comprises excluding a pixel value of the specified device area from calculation of an index value of an amount of misalignment between the first X-ray image and the second X-ray image, and the position alignment comprises calculating the index value of the amount of misalignment between the first X-ray image and the second X-ray image using the first processing, and shifting the first X-ray image or the second X-ray image based on the calculated index value.
9. The medical image processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the second processing comprises reducing a contribution of a pixel value of the specified device area in calculation of an index value of an amount of misalignment between the first X-ray image and the second X-ray image, and the position alignment comprises calculating the index value of the amount of misalignment between the first X-ray image and the second X-ray image using the second processing, and shifting the first X-ray image or the second X-ray image based on the calculated index value.
10. The medical image processing apparatus according to claim 2, further comprising a memory storing a trained model, the trained model trained to have a function of specifying, based on an X-ray image acquired with a device inserted, the device area in the X-ray image where the device is included and a function of outputting the specifying result, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to specify the device area in a latest X-ray image out of the first X-ray image and the second X-ray image based on the latest X-ray image and using the trained model.
11. The medical image processing apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to specify, as the device area candidate, an area in the blood vessel image where a blood vessel region is expanded in a width direction.
12. The medical image processing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to specify the device area candidate based on spatial distribution of the motion between frames of the second X-ray image.
13. The medical image processing apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to specify the device area candidate based on, among the spatial distribution of the motion, information about a motion that is locally distributed in concordance with the device.
14. The medical image processing apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to specify, as the device area candidate, an area including a portion showing a local movement.
15. The medical image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to generate a fluoroscopy roadmap image based on the second X-ray image by performing the position alignment and an image operation upon performing said specifying.
16. An X-ray diagnostic apparatus comprising the medical image processing apparatus according to claim 1.
17. A computer-implemented method comprising: specifying, before position alignment between a first X-ray image and a second X-ray image which is acquired with a device inserted, a device area candidate in the second X-ray image as a candidate of an area where the device appears; and performing the position alignment using first processing of removing the specified device area candidate or second processing of reducing a contribution of the specified device area candidate.
18. A medical image processing apparatus comprising: processing circuitry configured to perform, before position alignment between a first X-ray image and a second X-ray image which is acquired with a device inserted, image processing on the first X-ray image and the second X-ray image so that an extending image component is erased or attenuated, and perform the position alignment based on the first X-ray image and the second X-ray image after the image processing.
19. The medical image processing apparatus according to claim 18, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to control the image processing according to a field of view of the second X-ray image.
20. An X-ray diagnostic apparatus comprising the medical image processing apparatus according to claim 18.
</claims>
</document>
