<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12N9/10,C12Q1/6886
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GENECENTRIC THERAPEUTICS
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA
</assignee>

<inventors>
FARUKI, HAWAZIN
HAYES, DAVID NEIL
LAI-GOLDMAN, MYLA
MAYHEW, GREG
PEROU, CHARLES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65016195
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS FOR DETERMINING RESPONSE TO PARP INHIBITORS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and compositions are provided for determining whether an adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma patient is likely to respond to PARP inhibitor treatment. Specifically, a method of assessing whether a patient's adenocarcinoma (AD) lung cancer subtype is terminal respiratory unit (TRU), proximal inflammatory (PI), or proximal proliferative (PP) or a patient's squamous cell carcinoma (SQ) is primitive, classical, secretory or basal is provided herein. The method entails detecting the levels of classifier biomarkers at the nucleic acid level, in an AD or SQ lung cancer sample obtained from the patient. Based in part on the levels of the classifier biomarkers, the AD lung cancer sample is classified as a TRU, PI, or PP AD sample or the SQ lung cancer sample is classified as primitive, classical, secretory or basal and a determination of whether the patient is likely to respond to PARP inhibitor treatment can be made.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining whether an adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma patient is likely to respond to PARP inhibitor treatment, the method comprising, determining the adenocarcinoma subtype or the squamous cell carcinoma subtype of a lung tissue sample from the patient, wherein the adenocarcinoma subtype is selected from the group consisting of squamoid (proximal inflammatory), bronchoid (terminal respiratory unit) and magnoid (proximal proliferative), and the squamous cell carcinoma subtype is selected from the group consisting of primitive, classical, secretory and basal; and based on the subtype, assessing whether the patient is likely to respond to PARP inhibitor treatment.
2. A method for selecting an adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma patient for PARP inhibitor treatment, the method comprising, determining an adenocarcinoma subtype or squamous cell carcinoma subtype of a lung tissue sample from the patient, based on the subtype; and selecting the patient for PARP inhibitor treatment.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the patient is initially determined to have adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma via a histological analysis of a sample.
4. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the patient's adenocarcinoma molecular subtype is selected from squamoid (proximal inflammatory), bronchoid (terminal respiratory unit) or magnoid (proximal proliferative), and is determined via a histological analysis of a sample obtained from the patient.
5. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the patient's squamous cell carcinoma subtype is selected from primitive, classical, secretory or basal, and is determined via a histological analysis of a sample obtained from the patient.
6. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the sample is a formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) lung tissue sample, fresh or a frozen tissue sample, an exosome, or a bodily fluid obtained from the patient.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the bodily fluid is blood or fractions thereof, urine, saliva, or sputum.
8. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the determining the adenocarcinoma subtype or the squamous cell carcinoma subtype comprises determining expression levels of a plurality of classifier biomarkers.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the determining the expression levels of the plurality of classifier biomarkers is at a nucleic acid level by performing RNA sequencing, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) or hybridization based analyses.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of classifier biomarkers for determining the adenocarcinoma subtype is selected from a publically available lung adenocarcinoma dataset.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the publically available lung adenocarcinoma dataset is TCGA Lung AD RNAseq dataset.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of classifier biomarkers for determining the squamous cell carcinoma subtype is selected from a publically available lung squamous cell carcinoma dataset.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the publically available lung squamous cell carcinoma dataset is TCGA Lung SQ RNAseq dataset.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of classifier biomarkers for determining the adenocarcinoma subtype is selected from Table 1.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the RT-PCR is quantitative real time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the RT-PCR is performed with primers specific to the plurality of classifier biomarkers of Table 1; comparing the detected levels of expression of the plurality of classifier biomarkers of Table 1 to the expression of the plurality of classifier biomarkers of Table 1 in at least one sample training set(s), wherein the at least one sample training set comprises expression data of the plurality of classifier biomarkers of Table 1 from a reference adenocarcinoma TRU sample, expression data of the plurality of classifier biomarkers of Table 1 from a reference adenocarcinoma PP sample, expression data of the plurality of classifier biomarkers of Table 1 from a reference adenocarcinoma PI sample, or a combination thereof; and classifying the first sample as TRU, PP, or PI based on the results of the comparing step.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the comparing step comprises applying a statistical algorithm which comprises determining a correlation between the expression data obtained from the sample and the expression data from the at least one training set(s); and classifying the sample as a TRU, PP, or PI subtype based on the results of the statistical algorithm.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein the plurality of the classifier biomarkers comprise each of the classifier biomarkers set forth in Table 1.
19. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of classifier biomarkers for determining the squamous cell carcinoma subtype is selected from Table 3.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the RT-PCR is quantitative real time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the RT-PCR is performed with primers specific to the plurality of classifier biomarkers of Table 3; comparing the detected levels of expression of the plurality of classifier biomarkers of Table 3 to the expression of the plurality of classifier biomarkers of Table 3 in at least one sample training set(s), wherein the at least one sample training set comprises expression data of the plurality of classifier biomarkers of Table 3 from a reference squamous cell carcinoma basal sample, expression data of the plurality of classifier biomarkers of Table 3 from a reference squamous cell carcinoma classical sample, expression data of the plurality of classifier biomarkers of Table 3 from a reference squamous cell carcinoma primitive sample, expression data of the plurality of classifier biomarkers of Table 3 from a reference squamous cell carcinoma secretory sample or a combination thereof; and classifying the first sample as basal, classical, primitive or secretory based on the results of the comparing step.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the comparing step comprises applying a statistical algorithm which comprises determining a correlation between the expression data obtained from the sample and the expression data from the at least one training set(s); and classifying the sample as a basal, classical, primitive or secretory subtype based on the results of the statistical algorithm.
23. The method of claim 19, wherein the plurality of the classifier biomarkers comprise each of the classifier biomarkers set forth in Table 3.
24. A method of treating lung cancer in a subject, the method comprising: measuring the expression level of at least one biomarker nucleic acid in a lung cancer sample obtained from the subject, wherein the at least one biomarker nucleic acid is selected from a set of biomarkers listed in Table 1 or Table 3, wherein the presence, absence and/or level of the at least one biomarker indicates a subtype of the lung cancer; and administering a PARP inhibitor treatment based on the subtype of the lung cancer.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the lung cancer sample is an adenocarcinoma lung cancer sample, and wherein the set of biomarkers is Table 1.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the at least one biomarker nucleic acid selected from the set of biomarkers comprises, consists essentially of or consists of at least two biomarker nucleic acids, at least 8 biomarker nucleic acids, at least 16 biomarker nucleic acids, at least 32 biomarker nucleic acids, or all 48 biomarker nucleic acids of Table 1.
27. The method of claim 25, wherein the lung tissue sample was previously diagnosed as being adenocarcinoma.
28. The method of claim 24, wherein the lung cancer sample is a squamous cell carcinoma sample, and wherein the set of biomarkers is Table 3.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the at least one biomarker nucleic acid selected from the set of biomarkers comprises, consists essentially of or consists of at least two biomarker nucleic acids, at least 10 biomarker nucleic acids, at least 20 biomarker nucleic acids, at least 30 biomarker nucleic acids, at least 40 biomarker nucleic acids, at least 50 biomarker nucleic acids, at least 60 biomarker nucleic acids, at least 70 biomarker nucleic acids or all of the biomarker nucleic acids of Table 3.
30. The method of claim 28, wherein the lung tissue sample was previously diagnosed as being squamous cell carcinoma.
31. The method of claim 27 or 30, wherein the previous diagnosis was by histological examination.
32. The method of claim 24, further comprising measuring the expression of at least one biomarker from an additional set of biomarkers.
33. The method of claim 32, wherein the additional set of biomarkers comprise one or more homologous recombination (HR) related genes.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein the one or more HR-related genes are selected from ATM, ATR, BRCA1, BRCA2, BRIP1 (FANCJ), CDK12, CHEK1, CHEK2, FANCA, FANCI, FANCD2, MRE11A, RAD51L1 (RAD51B), RAD51C, PTEN or a combination thereof.
35. The method of claim 24, wherein the measuring the expression level is conducted using an amplification, hybridization and/or sequencing assay.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein the amplification, hybridization and/or sequencing assay comprises performing quantitative real time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), RNAseq, microarrays, gene chips, nCounter Gene Expression Assay, Serial Analysis of Gene Expression (SAGE), Rapid Analysis of Gene Expression (RAGE), nuclease protection assays, Northern blotting, or any other equivalent gene expression detection techniques.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein the expression level is detected by performing qRT-PCR.
38. The method of claim 24, wherein the sample is a formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) lung tissue sample, fresh or a frozen tissue sample, an exosome, wash fluids, cell pellets, or a bodily fluid obtained from the patient.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein the bodily fluid is blood or fractions thereof, urine, saliva, or sputum.
40. The method of claim 25, wherein the patient's adenocarcinoma subtype is selected from squamoid (proximal inflammatory), bronchoid (terminal respiratory unit) or magnoid (proximal proliferative).
41. The method of claim 28, wherein the patient's squamous cell carcinoma subtype is selected from primitive, classical, secretory or basal.
42. A method for determining regulation of homologous recombination (HR) in an adenocarcinoma (AD) or squamous cell carcinoma (SQ) lung cancer patient comprising detecting the expression of one or a plurality of homologous recombination (HR) related genes in a sample obtained from the lung AD or SQ lung cancer patient.
43. The method of claim 42, wherein the one or more HR-related genes are selected from ATM, ATR, BRCA1, BRCA2, BRIP1 (FANCJ), CDK12, CHEK1, CHEK2, FANCA, FANCI, FANCD2, MRE11A, RAD51L1 (RAD51B), RAD51C, PTEN or a combination thereof.
44. The method of claim 42, further comprising determining the lung AD or SQ subtype of the sample obtained from the patient.
45. The method of claim 44, further comprising determining an association between the expression of the one or plurality of HR-related genes to the lung AD or SQ subtype.
</claims>
</document>
