<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06T7/00,G06T7/50,G06T7/60,H01L21/67
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KLA CORPORATION
KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIRKWOOD, JASON
LAUBER, JAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69773025
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for characterization of buried defects
</title>

<abstract>
A system for defect detection and analysis is provided. The system may include an inspection sub-system and a controller including a memory and one or more processors. The inspection sub-system may include an illumination source and one or more detectors configured to acquire control patch images of defects of a control specimen along one or more detector channels. The one or more processors may be configured to train a defect classifier using the control patch images and known parameters associated with the defects of the control specimen. The inspection sub-system may be further configured to acquire patch images of identified defects on an additional specimen. The one or more processors may be configured to determine parameters of the identified defects using the defect classifier.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: an inspection sub-system, wherein the inspection sub-system includes one or more detection channels configured to acquire one or more patch images along the one or more scattering angles from a specimen; and a controller communicatively coupled to the inspection sub-system, the controller including one or more processors and memory, wherein the one or more processors are configured to execute a set of program instructions stored in the memory, the set of program instructions configured to cause the one or more processors to: receive one or more control patch images of one or more training defects of a control specimen from the inspection sub-system; train a defect classifier based on the one or more control patch images acquired from the one or more training defects and one or more known parameters associated with the one or more training defects; direct the inspection sub-system to identify one or more defects of an additional specimen; receive one or more patch images of the one or more identified defects of the additional specimen from the inspection sub-system; and apply the defect classifier to the one or more patch images of the one or more identified defects of the additional specimen to determine one or more parameters of the one or more identified defects of the additional specimen.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising one or more process tools, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to adjust one or more characteristics of the one or more process tools.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the one or more process tools include at least one or a lithography tool and a polishing tool.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters comprise at least one of a defect size and a defect depth.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the inspection sub-system comprises a first detection channel configured to acquire one or more patch images along a first scattering direction, a second detection channel configured to acquire one or more patch images along a second scattering direction, and at least a third detection channel configured to acquire one or more patch images along at least a third scattering direction.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to adjust the focus of at least one of the first detection channel, the second detection channel, and the at least third detection channel.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the defect classifier comprises a convolutional neural network (CNN).
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the control specimen comprises at least one of a semiconductor substrate and a VNAND stack.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the additional specimen comprises at least one of a semiconductor substrate and a VNAND stack.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to combine the one or more patch images of the one or more identified defects of the additional specimen into an RGB image.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to categorize the one or more training defects of the control specimen into one or more defect categories.
12. A system, comprising: a controller communicatively coupled to an inspection sub-system, the controller including one or more processors and memory, wherein the one or more processors are configured to execute a set of program instructions stored in the memory, the set of program instructions configured to cause the one or more processors to: receive one or more control patch images of one or more training defects of a control specimen from the inspection sub-system; train a defect classifier based on the one or more control patch images acquired from the one or more training defects and one or more known parameters associated with the one or more training defects; direct the inspection sub-system to identify one or more defects of an additional specimen; receive one or more patch images of the one or more identified defects of the additional specimen from the inspection sub-system; and apply the defect classifier to the one or more patch images of the one or more identified defects of the additional specimen to determine one or more parameters of the one or more identified defects of the additional specimen.
13. The system of claim 12, further comprising one or more process tools, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to adjust one or more characteristics of the one or more process tools.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more process tools include at least one or a lithography tool and a polishing tool.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the one or more parameters comprise at least one of a defect size and a defect depth.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the inspection sub-system comprises a first detection channel configured to acquire one or more patch images along a first scattering direction, a second detection channel configured to acquire one or more patch images along a second scattering direction, and at least a third detection channel configured to acquire one or more patch images along at least a third scattering direction.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to adjust the focus of at least one of the first detection channel, the second detection channel, and the at least third detection channel.
18. The system of claim 12, wherein the defect classifier comprises a convolutional neural network (CNN).
19. The system of claim 12, wherein the control specimen comprises at least one of a semiconductor substrate and a VNAND stack.
20. The system of claim 12, wherein the additional specimen comprises at least one of a semiconductor substrate and a VNAND stack.
21. The system of claim 12, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to combine the one or more patch images of the one or more identified defects of the additional specimen into an RGB image.
22. The system of claim 12, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to categorize the one or more training defects of the control specimen into one or more defect categories.
23. A method for measuring depth and size of buried defects in a specimen, comprising: acquiring, with an inspection sub-system, one or more control patch images of one or more training defects of a control specimen; training a defect classifier based on the one or more control patch images and one or more known parameters associated with the one or more training defects; identifying one or more defects on an additional specimen; acquiring, with the inspection sub-system, one or more patch images of the one or more identified defects of the additional specimen; and determining one or more parameters of the one or more identified defects of the additional specimen with the defect classifier based on the one or more patch images.
24. The method of claim 23, further comprising adjusting one or more characteristics of a process tool based on the determined one or more parameters of the one or more identified defects.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein the one or more parameters comprise at least one of a defect size and a defect depth.
26. The method of claim 23, wherein the inspection sub-system comprises a first detection channel configured to acquire patch images along a first scattering direction, a second detection channel configured to acquire patch images along a second scattering direction, and at least a third detection channel configured to acquire patch images along at least a third scattering direction.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising adjusting the focus of at least one of the first detection channel, the second detection channel, and the at least third detection channel.
28. The method of claim 23, wherein the defect classifier comprises a convolutional neural network (CNN).
29. The method of claim 23, wherein the control specimen comprises at least one of a semiconductor substrate and a VNAND stack.
30. The method of claim 23, wherein the additional specimen comprises at least one of a semiconductor substrate and a VNAND stack.
31. The method of claim 23, further comprising combining the one or more patch images of the one or more identified defects of the additional specimen into an RGB image.
32. The method of claim 23, further comprising categorizing the one or more training defects of the control specimen into one or more defect categories.
</claims>
</document>
