<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04Q9/00,H05B47/11,H05B47/115,H05B47/16,H05B47/175
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LEXI DEVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
LING, RICHARD
CAHILL, SCOTT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71517037
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic Lighting States Based on Context
</title>

<abstract>
During operation, a computer obtains information specifying a lighting configuration of one or more lights in an environment, where the lighting configuration includes the one or more lights at predefined or predetermined locations in the environment. Then, the computer receives sensor data associated with the environment. Moreover, the computer analyzes the sensor data to determine a context associated with the environment. Then, based at least in part on the lighting configuration, a layout of the environment, and the determined context, the computer automatically determines the dynamic lighting states of the one or more lights, where a dynamic lighting state of a given light includes an intensity and a color of the given light. Next, the computer provides instructions corresponding to the dynamic lighting states to the one or more lights. Note that the dynamic lighting states may be based at least in part on a transferrable profile of the individual.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer, comprising: an interface circuit; a computation device, coupled to the interface circuit and memory, configured to execute program instructions; the memory configured to store the program instructions, wherein, when executed by the computation device, the program instructions cause the computer system to perform one or more operations comprising: obtaining information specifying a lighting configuration of one or more lights in an environment, wherein the lighting configuration comprises one or more lights at predefined or predetermined locations in the environment; receiving sensor data associated with the environment; analyzing the sensor data to determine a context associated with the environment; automatically determining, based at least in part on the lighting configuration, a layout of the environment, and the determined context, dynamic lighting states of the one or more lights, wherein a dynamic lighting state of a given light comprises an intensity and a color of the given light; and providing instructions corresponding to the dynamic lighting states addressed to the one or more lights.
2. The computer of claim 1, wherein the instructions are provided via a control hub.
3. The computer of claim 1, wherein the information specifying the lighting configuration is accessed in the memory.
4. The computer of claim 1, wherein the context comprises: a timestamp, a state of one or more objects in the environment, a number of individuals in the environment, when an electronic device in the environment is powered on while there are no individuals in the environment, locations of one or more individuals in the environment, activities of the one or more individuals, start and/or stop times of the activities, or a natural lighting condition.
5. The computer of claim 1, wherein the context comprises an identity of an individual, and the dynamic lighting states are based at least in part on a lighting preference or a history of lighting configurations associated with the individual.
6. The computer of claim 1, wherein the sensor data comprises one or more images, and the computer analyzes the one or more images using an image-processing technique.
7. The computer of claim 1, wherein the sensor data comprises: sound, or sensor data associated with a wearable device.
8. The computer of claim 1, wherein the analysis identifies one or more related environments having attributes of the environment, and the dynamic lighting states are based at least in part on lighting configurations, lighting states of the one or more related environments, or both.
9. The computer of claim 1, wherein the receiving of the sensor data comprises measuring the sensor data.
10. The computer of claim 1, wherein the one or more operations comprise selectively performing a remedial action based at least in part on the dynamic lighting states; and wherein the remedial action comprises a reminder or a notification.
11. The computer of claim 1, wherein the dynamic lighting states are determined based at least in part on a transferrable lighting profile with one or more lighting preferences of the individual; and wherein the transferrable lighting profile of the individual is associated with one or more second environments that are different from the environment.
12. The computer of claim 1, wherein the one or more operations comprise calibrating the one or more lights; wherein the calibration comprises varying the intensity and the color of the given light using a set of different intensities and colors; wherein the calibration assesses an impact of the dynamic lighting states of the one or more lights; and wherein the dynamic lighting states are determined based at least in part on the calibration and a predefined lighting design principle.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for use in conjunction with a computer, the computer-readable storage medium configured to store program instructions that, when executed by the computer, causes the computer to perform one or more operations comprising: obtaining information specifying a lighting configuration of one or more lights in an environment, wherein the lighting configuration comprises one or more lights at predefined or predetermined locations in the environment; receiving sensor data associated with the environment; analyzing the sensor data to determine a context associated with the environment; automatically determining, based at least in part on the lighting configuration, a layout of the environment, and the determined context, dynamic lighting states of the one or more lights, wherein a dynamic lighting state of a given light comprises an intensity and a color of the given light; and providing instructions corresponding to the dynamic lighting states addressed to the one or more lights.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the context comprises: a timestamp, a state of one or more objects in the environment, a number of individuals in the environment, when an electronic device in the environment is powered on while there are no individuals in the environment, locations of one or more individuals in the environment, activities of the one or more individuals, start and/or stop times of the activities, or a natural lighting condition.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the analysis identifies one or more related environments having attributes of the environment, and the dynamic lighting states are based at least in part on lighting configurations, lighting states of the one or more related environments, or both.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the dynamic lighting states are determined based at least in part on a transferrable lighting profile with one or more lighting preferences of the individual; and wherein the transferrable lighting profile of the individual is associated with one or more second environments that are different from the environment.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the one or more operations comprise calibrating the one or more lights; wherein the calibration comprises varying the intensity and the color of the given light using a set of different intensities and colors; wherein the calibration assesses an impact of the dynamic lighting states of the one or more lights; and wherein the dynamic lighting states are determined based at least in part on the calibration and a predefined lighting design principle.
18. A method for determining dynamic lighting states, comprising: by a computer: obtaining information specifying a lighting configuration of one or more lights in an environment, wherein the lighting configuration comprises one or more lights at predefined or predetermined locations in the environment; receiving sensor data associated with the environment; analyzing the sensor data to determine a context associated with the environment; automatically determining, based at least in part on the lighting configuration, a layout of the environment, and the determined context, dynamic lighting states of the one or more lights, wherein a dynamic lighting state of a given light comprises an intensity and a color of the given light; and providing instructions corresponding to the dynamic lighting states addressed to the one or more lights.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the dynamic lighting states are determined based at least in part on a transferrable lighting profile with one or more lighting preferences of the individual; and wherein the transferrable lighting profile of the individual is associated with one or more second environments that are different from the environment.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the method comprises calibrating the one or more lights; wherein the calibration comprises varying the intensity and the color of the given light using a set of different intensities and colors; wherein the calibration assesses an impact of the dynamic lighting states of the one or more lights; and wherein the dynamic lighting states are determined based at least in part on the calibration and a predefined lighting design principle.
</claims>
</document>
