<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALESFORCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
MUSTAFI, JOY
DUA, RAJDEEP
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71837554
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATIC RULE GENERATION FOR RECOMMENDATION ENGINE USING HYBRID MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
The system and methods of the disclosed subject matter provide a hybrid machine learning approach for recommending items that a consumer should be shown as a next best offer. The recommendation may be based on the consumer's previous behavior, other consumers' previous behavior, and the consumer's profile. The system and methods may cluster an input dataset using an unsupervised clustering engine. The dataset output from the unsupervised clustering engine may be subsequently provided to the input of a supervised machine learning engine to generate a rules-based model. The system and methods may use the rules-based model to subsequently cluster new user data and generate recommendations based on the user's assigned cluster.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for recommending an item to a target user, comprising: receiving input data indexed according to a plurality of users; executing an unsupervised clustering process to assign each user of the plurality of users of the input data to a cluster of a plurality of clusters and to modify the input data according to the assigned clusters; generating a rule using the modified input data by executing a supervised learning process; generating a recommendation vector associated with a plurality of items; and selecting an item to be recommended to the target user from the plurality of items based on the associated recommendation vector that indicates a probability that the target user will be interested in the selected item of the plurality of items.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the recommendation vector associated with the plurality of items is calculated by determining the difference between a vector associated with each user and a vector mean associated with a center of each cluster.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of users are clustered based on each user of the plurality of users previous interaction with one or more of the plurality of items.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of users are clustered based on one or more features of each user of the plurality of users, the features identifying a personal characteristic of the each user.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected item is absent from the target user's previous activity.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein a maximum value of the recommendation vector indicates that the target user is more likely to be interested in the selected item than any other item of the plurality of items.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the recommendation vector that indicates that the user is more likely to be interested in the selected item than any other item in the plurality of items is selected from a first and second recommendation vector based on a first and second clustering method, respectively.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the supervised learning process generates a data structure associating the input data with the modified input data.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the target user is not a user of the plurality of users.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a machine learning model based on the rule and assigning the target user to a cluster using the machine learning model.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable media comprising instructions operable, when executed by one or more computing systems, to: receive input data indexed according to a plurality of users; execute an unsupervised clustering process to assign each user of the plurality of users of the input data to a cluster of a plurality of clusters and to modify the input data according to the assigned clusters; generate a rule using the modified input data by executing a supervised learning process; generate a recommendation vector associated with a plurality of items; and select an item to be recommended to a target user from the plurality of items based on the associated recommendation vector that indicates a probability that the target user will be interested in the selected item of the plurality of items.
12. The media of claim 11, wherein the recommendation vector associated with the plurality of items is calculated by determining the difference between a vector associated with each user and a vector mean associated with a center of each cluster.
13. The media of claim 11, wherein the plurality of users are clustered based on each user of the plurality of users previous interaction with one or more of the plurality of items.
14. The media of claim 11, wherein the plurality of users are clustered based on one or more features of each user of the plurality of users, the features identifying a personal characteristic of the each user.
15. The media of claim 11, wherein the selected item is absent from the target user's previous activity.
16. The media of claim 11, wherein a maximum value of the recommendation vector indicates that the target user is more likely to be interested in the selected item than any other item of the plurality of items.
17. The media of claim 16, wherein the recommendation vector that indicates that the user is more likely to be interested in the selected item than any other item in the plurality of items is selected from a first and second recommendation vector based on a first and second clustering method, respectively.
18. The media of claim 11, wherein the supervised learning process generates a data structure associating the input data with the modified input data.
19. The media of claim 11, wherein the target user is not a user of the plurality of users.
20. The media of claim 11, further comprising instructions operable, when executed by one or more computing systems, to: generate a machine learning model based on the rule and assigning the target user to a cluster using the machine learning model.
21. A system comprising: a data store storing item data for a plurality of items and user activity data for a plurality of users; and one or more processors configured to: receive input data indexed according to a plurality of users; execute an unsupervised clustering process to assign each user of the plurality of users of the input data to a cluster of a plurality of clusters and to modify the input data according to the assigned clusters; generate a rule using the modified input data by executing a supervised learning process; generate a recommendation vector associated with a plurality of items; and select an item to be recommended to the target user from the plurality of items based on the associated recommendation vector that indicates a probability that the target user will be interested in the selected item of the plurality of items.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the recommendation vector associated with the plurality of items is calculated by determining the difference between a vector associated with each user and a vector mean associated with a center of each cluster.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein the plurality of users are clustered based on each user of the plurality of users previous interaction with one or more of the plurality of items.
24. The system of claim 21, wherein the plurality of users are clustered based on one or more features of each user of the plurality of users, the features identifying a personal characteristic of the each user.
25. The system of claim 21, wherein the selected item is absent from the target user's previous activity.
26. The system of claim 21, wherein a maximum value of the recommendation vector indicates that the target user is more likely to be interested in the selected item than any other item of the plurality of items.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the recommendation vector that indicates that the user is more likely to be interested in the selected item than any other item in the plurality of items is selected from a first and second recommendation vector based on a first and second clustering method, respectively.
28. The system of claim 21, wherein the supervised learning process generates a data structure associating the input data with the modified input data.
29. The system of claim 21, wherein the target user is not a user of the plurality of users.
30. The system of claim 21, further comprising: the one or more processors further configured to: generate a machine learning model based on the rule and assigning the target user to a cluster using the machine learning model.
</claims>
</document>
