<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06N3/08,G16C20/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAMA TOSHIYUKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73230721
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FEATURE VECTOR FEASIBILITY ESTIMATION
</title>

<abstract>
Feature vector feasibility is estimated by generating a target structure vector that represents numbers of a plurality of partial structures, from a feature vector of a molecule candidate, determining whether a molecule structure of the molecule candidate is feasible by using at least the target structure vector.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for neural network training, comprising: generating a target structure vector that represents numbers of a plurality of partial structures, from a feature vector of a molecule candidate; and determining whether a molecule structure of the molecule candidate is feasible by using at least the target structure vector.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of partial structures includes structures having different numbers of edges connected to a node.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the plurality of partial structures includes: a first structure having one edge connected to the one node, a second structure having two edges connected to the one node, a third structure having three edges connected to the one node, and a fourth structure having four edges connected to the one node.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the feature vector includes an indication of whether the molecule candidate includes one or more unit structures.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the feature vector indicates a number of atoms and a number of rings in the molecule candidate.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: acquiring a number of atoms and a number of rings of the molecule candidate from the feature vector of the molecule candidate, wherein the determining whether a molecule structure of the molecule candidate is feasible by using at least the target structure vector is performed by further using the number of atoms and the number of rings of the molecule candidate.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the determining whether a molecule structure of the molecule candidate is feasible by using at least the target structure vector, includes: determining that the molecule structure of the molecule candidate is feasible in response to the target structure vector being included in a preliminary defined space that corresponds to the number of atoms and the number of rings of the molecule candidate.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising: generating one or more secondary structure vectors that is equal to or larger than the target structure vector, wherein the determining whether a molecule structure of the molecule candidate is feasible by using at least the target structure vector is performed by further using the one or more secondary structure vectors.
9. The method of claim 6, further comprising: acquiring a number of atoms of the molecule candidate for each valence, from the feature vector of the molecule candidate, wherein the determining whether a molecule structure of the molecule candidate is feasible by using at least the target structure vector is performed by further using the number of atoms of the molecule candidate for each valence.
10. The method of claim 7, further comprising: enumerating feasible structure vectors for each pair of the number of nodes and rings, wherein the preliminary defined space that corresponds to the number of nodes and the number of rings of the molecule candidate is defined by the enumerated feasible structure vectors.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the enumerating feasible structure vectors for each pair of the number of nodes and rings, includes: growing a graph, counting the number of nodes and the number of rings of the graph, and storing a structure vector of the graph for a pair of the counted number of nodes and the counted number of rings of the graph.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the growing a graph, comprises at least one of: adding a new node to the graph, and forming a new ring in the graph.
13. An apparatus comprising a processor; and one or more computer readable mediums collectively including instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations including: generating a target structure vector that represents numbers of a plurality of partial structures, from a feature vector of a molecule candidate; and determining whether a molecule structure of the molecule candidate is feasible by using at least the target structure vector.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the plurality of partial structures include structures having different numbers of edges connected to a node.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the plurality of partial structures includes: a first structure having one edge connected to the one node, a second structure having two edges connected to the one node, a third structure having three edges connected to the one node, and a fourth structure having four edges connected to the one node.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the feature vector includes an indication of whether the molecule candidate includes one or more unit structures.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the feature vector indicates a number of atoms and a number of rings in the molecule candidate.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: acquiring a number of atoms and a number of rings of the molecule candidate from the feature vector of the molecule candidate, wherein the determining whether a molecule structure of the molecule candidate is feasible by using at least the target structure vector is performed by further using the number of atoms and the number of rings of the molecule candidate.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the determining whether a molecule structure of the molecule candidate is feasible by using at least the target structure vector, includes: determining that the molecule structure of the molecule candidate is feasible in response to the target structure vector being included in a preliminary defined space that corresponds to the number of atoms and the number of rings of the molecule candidate.
20. A computer program product including one or more computer readable storage mediums collectively storing program instructions that are executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform operations comprising: generating a target structure vector that represents numbers of a plurality of partial structures, from a feature vector of a molecule candidate; and determining whether a molecule structure of the molecule candidate is feasible by using at least the target structure vector.
21. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein the plurality of partial structures include structures having different numbers of edges connected to a node.
22. The computer program product of claim 21, wherein the plurality of partial structures includes: a first structure having one edge connected to the one node, a second structure having two edges connected to the one node, a third structure having three edges connected to the one node, and a fourth structure having four edges connected to the one node.
23. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein the feature vector includes an indication of whether the molecule candidate includes one or more unit structures.
24. The computer program product of claim 23, wherein the feature vector indicates a number of atoms and a number of rings in the molecule candidate.
25. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein the operations further comprise: acquiring a number of atoms and a number of rings of the molecule candidate from the feature vector of the molecule candidate, wherein the determining whether a molecule structure of the molecule candidate is feasible by using at least the target structure vector is performed by further using the number of atoms and the number of rings of the molecule candidate.
</claims>
</document>
