<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N3/08,H04W4/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARTIAA AI
</assignee>

<inventors>
ODINAEV, KARINA
RAICHELGAUZ, IGAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70325320
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONCEPT UPDATE AND VEHICLE TO VEHICLE COMMUNICATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method for a concept update, the method may include detecting that a certain signature of an object causes a false detection; the certain signature belongs to a concept structure that comprises multiple signatures; wherein the false detection comprises determining that the object is represented by the concept structure while the object is of a certain type that is not related to the concept structure; searching for an error inducing part of the certain signature that induced the false detection; and removing from the concept structure the error inducing part to provide an updated concept structure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for a concept update, the method comprises: detecting that a certain signature of an object causes a false detection; the certain signature belongs to a concept structure that comprises multiple signatures; wherein the false detection comprises determining that the object is represented by the concept structure while the object is of a certain type that is not related to the concept structure; searching for an error inducing part of the certain signature that induced the false detection; and removing from the concept structure the error inducing part to provide an updated concept structure.
2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the removing is preceded by calculating a cost related to a removing the error inducing part from the concept structure; and removing the error inducing part when the cost is within a predefined range.
3. The method according to claim 1 wherein each signature represents a map of firing neurons of a neural network that was fed with the image;
4. The method according to claim 1 wherein the searching for the error inducing part comprises: comparing the certain signature to a test concept structure to find matching parts of the certain signature that match parts of images of the test concept structure that comprise one or more objects of the certain type; and defining the error inducing part of the certain signature based on an overlap between the matching parts of the certain signature.
5. The method according to claim 4 comprising generating the test concept structure by: randomly selecting the images that comprises one or more objects of the certain type; and randomly selecting images that comprise one or more objects of a given type that is properly associated with the concept structure.
6. The method according to claim 1 comprising sharing the updated structure concept between vehicles.
7. The method according to claim 1 comprising acquiring audio during the vehicle maneuver that is suspected as being the obstacle avoidance maneuver; and processing the audio to provide audio information.
8. A non-transitory computer readable medium that stores instructions for: detecting that a certain signature of an object causes a false detection; the certain signature belongs to a concept structure that comprises multiple signatures; wherein the false detection comprises determining that the object is represented by the concept structure while the object is of a certain type that is not related to the concept structure; searching for an error inducing part of the certain signature that induced the false detection; and removing from the concept structure the error inducing part to provide an updated concept structure.
9. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 8 wherein the removing is preceded by calculating a cost related to a removing the error inducing part from the concept structure; and removing the error inducing part when the cost is within a predefined range.
10. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 8 wherein each signature represents a map of firing neurons of a neural network that was fed with the image;
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 8 wherein the searching for the error inducing part comprises: comparing the certain signature to a test concept structure to find matching parts of the certain signature that match parts of images of the test concept structure that comprise one or more objects of the certain type; and defining the error inducing part of the certain signature based on an overlap between the matching parts of the certain signature.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 11 that stores instructions for generating the test concept structure by: randomly selecting the images that comprises one or more objects of the certain type; and randomly selecting images that comprise one or more objects of a given type that is properly associated with the concept structure.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 8 that stores instructions for sharing the updated structure concept between vehicles.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 8 that stores instructions for acquiring audio during the vehicle maneuver that is suspected as being the obstacle avoidance maneuver; and processing the audio to provide audio information.
15. A computerized system that comprises a processor and multiple units that are configured to detecting that a certain signature of an object causes a false detection; the certain signature belongs to a concept structure that comprises multiple signatures; wherein the false detection comprises determining that the object is represented by the concept structure while the object is of a certain type that is not related to the concept structure; searching for an error inducing part of the certain signature that induced the false detection; and removing from the concept structure the error inducing part to provide an updated concept structure.
16. The computerized system according to claim 15 wherein the removing is preceded by calculating a cost related to a removing the error inducing part from the concept structure; and removing the error inducing part when the cost is within a predefined range.
17. The computerized system according to claim 15 wherein each signature represents a map of firing neurons of a neural network that was fed with the image;
18. The computerized system according to claim 15 wherein the searching for the error inducing part comprises: comparing the certain signature to a test concept structure to find matching parts of the certain signature that match parts of images of the test concept structure that comprise one or more objects of the certain type; and defining the error inducing part of the certain signature based on an overlap between the matching parts of the certain signature.
19. The computerized system according to claim 18 that is configured to generate the test concept structure by: randomly selecting the images that comprises one or more objects of the certain type; and randomly selecting images that comprise one or more objects of a given type that is properly associated with the concept structure.
</claims>
</document>
