<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING BOE OPTOELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
BOE TECHNOLOGY GROUP COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, LILI
CHU, MINGLEI
LI GANG
LV, YAOYU
PENG, XIANGJUN
WANG, YUNQI
XUE, YACHONG
ZHANG HAO
ZHANG SHUO
ZHAO CHENXI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68362786
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method for Defect Classification, Method for Training Defect Classifier, and Apparatus Thereof
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure provides a method for defect classification, including: extracting a low-level feature of a defect region from a defect image; encoding the low-level feature by using a defect dictionary to obtain a middle-level semantic feature corresponding to the low-level feature; classifying a defect in the defect region of the defect image into one of a plurality of defect categories based on the middle-level semantic feature, wherein the defect dictionary includes a defect intra-category dictionary and a defect inter-category dictionary.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for defect classification, comprising: extracting a low-level feature of a defect region from a defect image; encoding the low-level feature by using a defect dictionary to obtain a middle-level semantic feature corresponding to the low-level feature; classifying a defect in the defect region of the defect image into one of a plurality of defect categories based on the middle-level semantic feature, wherein the defect dictionary includes a defect intra-category dictionary and a defect inter-category dictionary.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein, the defect intra-category dictionary includes a plurality of secondary defect intra-category dictionaries each respectively corresponding to one of the plurality of defect categories, and each secondary defect intra-category dictionary is directed to low-level features specific to its corresponding defect category; and the defect inter-category dictionary is directed to low-level features that the plurality of defect categories have in common.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein, the defect inter-category dictionary is obtained by clustering low-level features of all defect regions of all defect images in a predetermined set of defect images; each secondary defect intra-category dictionary is obtained by clustering low-level features of all defect regions, each having a defect belonging to the defect category corresponding to the secondary defect intra-category dictionary, in all defect images in the predetermined set of defect images; the defect intra-category dictionary is obtained by combining the plurality of secondary defect intra-category dictionaries; and the defect dictionary is obtained by combining the defect inter-category dictionary and the defect intra-category dictionary.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the extracting the low-level feature of the defect region from the defect image comprises: performing an image segmentation on the defect image to extract the defect region; and extracting the low-level feature of the defect region.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the low-level feature includes: a Histogram of Oriented Gradient feature, a Scale-invariant Feature Transform feature, or a Speed-up Robust feature.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the encoding the low-level feature by using the defect dictionary to obtain the middle-level semantic feature corresponding to the low-level feature comprises: encoding the low-level feature, by using the following formula, based on the defect dictionary, to obtain a feature encoding matrix corresponding to the low-level feature: wherein, V represents the feature encoding matrix; ∥·∥22 represents a square of 2-norm of a vector, and corresponds to a sum of a square of each element in the vector; ∥·∥1 represents a 1-norm of a vector, and corresponds to a sum of an absolute value of each element in the vector; p is a number of feature regions of the defect region; xi is a low-level feature vector of a single feature region i (1≤i≤p) of the defect region; U is a defect dictionary matrix; vi is a weight vector corresponding to xi, and a number p of vi constitute the feature encoding matrix V; λ∥vi∥1 is a constraint condition such that the sum of the absolute value of each element in the vector vi will not be too large; and obtaining the middle-level semantic feature based on the feature encoding matrix, wherein, the feature encoding matrix V enables a minimum value of the formula.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the middle-level semantic feature includes a Bag-of-Words model, and the encoding the low-level feature by using the defect dictionary to obtain the middle-level semantic feature corresponding to the low-level feature further comprises: obtaining the Bag-of-Words model of the defect region according to the feature encoding matrix V.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of defect categories include: dark spot, bright spot, scratch, glass breakage, liquid leakage, and poor film, the classifying the defect in the defect region of the defect image into one of the plurality of defect categories comprises: classifying the defect in the defect region of the defect image into one of dark spot, bright spot, scratch, glass breakage, liquid leakage, and poor film.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the classifying the defect in the defect region of the defect image into one of the plurality of defect categories based on the middle-level semantic features comprises: inputting the obtained middle-level semantic feature of the defect region of the defect image into a trained classifier for classification.
10. A method for training a defect classifier, comprising: extracting low-level features of all defect regions from all defect images in a predetermined set of defect images, wherein a defect category of a defect in each defect region is known; constituting a defect dictionary based on low-level features of all defect regions; encoding a low-level feature of each defect region by using a defect dictionary, to obtain a middle-level semantic feature of the defect region corresponding to the low-level feature of the defect region; and training the classifier based on the obtained middle-level semantic feature of each defect region and the known defect category of the defect in the defect region, wherein the defect dictionary comprises a defect intra-category dictionary and a defect inter-category dictionary.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein, the defect intra-category dictionary includes a plurality of secondary defect intra-category dictionaries each respectively corresponding to one of a plurality of defect categories, and each secondary defect intra-category dictionary is directed to low-level features specific to its corresponding defect category; and the defect inter-category dictionary is directed to low-level features that the plurality of defect categories have in common.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the constituting the defect dictionary based on low-level features of all defect regions comprises: clustering low-level features of all defect regions of all defect images in the predetermined set of defect images to obtain the defect inter-category dictionary; for each defect category, clustering low-level features of all defect regions each having a defect belonging to the defect category in all defect images in the predetermined set of defect images, to obtain a corresponding secondary defect intra-category dictionary; combining the plurality of secondary defect intra-category dictionaries to obtain the defect intra-category dictionary; and combining the defect inter-category dictionary and the defect intra-category dictionary to obtain the defect dictionary.
13. The method according to claim 10, wherein the extracting low-level features of all defect regions from all defect images in a predetermined set of defect images comprises: for each defect image, performing an image segmentation on the defect image to extract a defect region; and extracting the low-level feature of the defect region.
14. The method according to claim 10, wherein the defect category includes: dark spot, bright spot, scratch, glass breakage, liquid leakage, or poor film.
15. An apparatus for defect classification, comprising: a processor; and a memory for storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform the method for defect classification according to claim 1.
16. An apparatus for training a defect classifier, comprising: a processor; and a memory for storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform the method for training a defect classifier according to claim 10.
</claims>
</document>
