<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-06-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/04,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOLDMAN SACHS & COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
REED, CARL J.
KLEIN, CHARLES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
49671453
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRODUCT DRIVEN APPROACH TO TECHNOLOGY PROVISIONING, OPERATIONS, AND BILLING
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for a product driven approach to technology provisioning, operations, and billing are provided. Some embodiments provide an Information Technology (IT) business architecture built around the product driven methodology. This architecture can be designed to optimize the demand side provisioning of technology products to meet business intent and the execution of supply side assembly and implementation lifecycle. A technology model can be used that recursively decomposes services and products into various components. As a result, the technology model allows for effective and efficient provisioning, pricing, and impact assessment of the organization's technology to thereby drive the efficiency of scale and the automation of the provisioning, the finance, and the operation businesses. Moreover, by representing everything in technologies and products, including people, within the technology model, then determining the cost of the product and tracking usage provides an effective consumption-based Bill of IT.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-25. (canceled)
26. A method comprising: receiving, through a portal, a product ordering request that specifies a set of features and functional requirements desired by a requestor; accessing a recursive model stored in a memory to match the set of features and functional requirements to a provisionable assembly that satisfies the set of features and functional requirements; determining, based on the recursive model, a set of constituent components to create the provisionable assembly; and generating, using at least one processor, a request to provision a product based on the set of constituent components.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising: decomposing multiple products each having one or more functional descriptions by representing the functional descriptions with selectable features and functional requirements; mapping the selectable features and functional requirements into constituent components; and creating the recursive model based on the constituent components for the multiple products.
28. The method of claim 26, further comprising: updating the recursive model with new constituent components; and generating a second request to reprovision the product based on the updated recursive model.
29. The method of claim 26, further comprising: generating, using the at least one processor, a graphical user interface to present a product catalog configured to be navigated based on selectable features and functional requirements identified by the recursive model.
30. The method of claim 26, wherein the set of constituent components is determined based on a mean time to failure of the provisionable assembly to be created using the set of constituent components.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein the set of constituent components is determined based on minimizing a total cost of the provisionable assembly to be created using the set of constituent components.
32. The method of claim 26, wherein: the request to provision the product comprises a fulfillment request to build the product; and the method further comprises predicting an impact the fulfillment request will have on an inventory.
33. A system comprising: a communication interface configured to receive a product ordering request that specifies a set of features and functional requirements desired by a requestor; at least one memory configured to store a recursive model; and at least one processor configured to: access the recursive model to match the set of features and functional requirements to a provisionable assembly that satisfies the set of features and functional requirements; determine, based on the recursive model, a set of constituent components to create the provisionable assembly; and generate a request to provision a product based on the set of constituent components.
34. The system of claim 33, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: decompose multiple products each having one or more functional descriptions by representing the functional descriptions with selectable features and functional requirements; map the selectable features and functional requirements into constituent components; and create the recursive model based on the constituent components for the multiple products.
35. The system of claim 33, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: update the recursive model with new constituent components; and generate a second request to reprovision the product based on the updated recursive model.
36. The system of claim 33, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to generate a graphical user interface to present a product catalog configured to be navigated based on selectable features and functional requirements identified by the recursive model.
37. The system of claim 33, wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine the set of constituent components based on a mean time to failure of the provisionable assembly to be created using the set of constituent components.
38. The system of claim 37, wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine the set of constituent components based on a total cost of the provisionable assembly to be created using the set of constituent components.
39. The system of claim 33, wherein the provisionable assembly includes at least one procurable product for which data is accessed from at least one vendor.
40. A computer-readable storage medium containing instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to: receive a product ordering request that specifies a set of features and functional requirements desired by a requestor; access a recursive model stored in a memory to match the set of features and functional requirements to a provisionable assembly that satisfies the set of features and functional requirements; determine, based on the recursive model, a set of constituent components to create the provisionable assembly; and generate a request to provision a product based on the set of constituent components.
41. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 40, wherein the instructions when executed further cause the one or more processors to: decompose multiple products each having one or more functional descriptions by representing the functional descriptions with selectable features and functional requirements; map the selectable features and functional requirements into constituent components; and create the recursive model based on the constituent components for the multiple products.
42. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 40, wherein the instructions when executed further cause the one or more processors to: update the recursive model with new constituent components; and generate a second request to reprovision the product based on the updated recursive model.
43. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 40, wherein the instructions when executed further cause the one or more processors to generate a graphical user interface to present a product catalog configured to be navigated based on selectable features and functional requirements identified by the recursive model.
44. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 40, wherein the set of constituent components is determined based on a mean time to failure of the provisionable assembly to be created using the set of constituent components.
45. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 44, wherein the set of constituent components is determined based on minimizing a total cost of the provisionable assembly to be created using the set of constituent components.
</claims>
</document>
