<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/063
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CEA (COMMISSARIAT A L'ENERGIE ATOMIQUE)
</assignee>

<inventors>
VALENTIAN, ALEXANDRE
BICHLER, OLIVIER
RUMMENS, FRANÇOIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63579434
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CIRCUIT NEUROMORPHIQUE IMPULSIONNEL IMPLEMENTANT UN NEURONE FORMEL
</title>

<abstract>
An impulse-neuron-type neuromorphic circuit comprises a capacitor (Cmem) having a membrane voltage (Vmem), a first action comparator (1) for comparing the membrane voltage with a first action voltage (Vact, Vthreshold_high), a first regulation comparator (4) for comparing the membrane voltage with a first regulation voltage (Vreg), a device for reinitialising the membrane voltage (3) a register of threshold exceeds (5) and a regulator (2). The regulator is configured: in case of exceeding the first regulation voltage (Vreg Vthreshold_low) by the membrane voltage, to control the device for reinitialising the membrane voltage (3) and modify the register of threshold exceeds (5); and in case of exceeding the first action voltage (Vact Vthreshold_high) by the membrane voltage, to control the device for reinitialising the membrane voltage (3) and query the register of threshold exceeds to decide whether or not to generate an action potential (Spa) on an output of the neuromorphic circuit.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Neuromorphic circuit of the impulse neuron type, comprising a capacitor (Cmem) at the terminals of which is established a membrane voltage (Vmem), an action comparator (1) configured to compare the membrane voltage to a first action voltage (Vact) and a device for reinitialising the membrane voltage (3), wherein it further comprises a first regulation comparator (4) for comparing the membrane voltage with a first regulation voltage (Vreg), a register of threshold exceeds (5) and a regulator (2) configured: in case of exceeding the first regulation voltage (Vreg) by the membrane voltage, to control the device for reinitialising the membrane voltage (3) and modify the register of threshold exceeds (5); and in case of exceeding the first action voltage (Vact) by the membrane voltage, to control the device for reinitialising the membrane voltage (3) and query the register of threshold exceeds to decide whether or not to generate an action potential (Spa) on an output of the neuromorphic circuit.
2. The neuromorphic circuit of claim 1, wherein the regulator (2) is configured to, in case of exceeding the first action voltage (Vact) by the membrane voltage, control the device for reinitialising the membrane voltage so as to modify the charge of the membrane capacitor by a predetermined charge quantity.
3. The neuromorphic circuit according to claim 1, wherein the regulator is configured to, in case of exceeding the first regulation voltage (Vreg) by the membrane voltage, control the device for reinitialising the membrane voltage so as to modify the charge of the membrane capacitor by a predetermined charge quantity.
4. The neuromorphic circuit according to claim 1, wherein the register of threshold exceeds (5) is a counter that is decremented in case of exceeding the first regulation voltage (Vreg) by the membrane voltage and which, when it indicates a negative value, is incremented in case of exceeding the first action voltage (Vact) by the membrane voltage.
5. The neuromorphic circuit according to claim 4, wherein in case of exceeding the first action voltage (Vact) by the membrane voltage, the regulator decides to generate an action potential when the counter indicates a zero value, with the latter then not being modified.
6. The neuromorphic circuit according to claim 1, comprising a second regulation comparator configured to compare the membrane voltage to a second regulation voltage (Vthreshold_high) and a second action comparator configured to compare the membrane voltage to a second action voltage, and wherein the regulator is further configured: in case of exceeding the second regulation voltage by the membrane voltage, to control the device for reinitialising the membrane voltage (3) and modify the register of threshold exceeds (5); in case of exceeding the second action voltage by the membrane voltage to control the device for reinitialising the membrane voltage (3) and query the register of exceed registers to decide whether or not to generate an action potential (Spa) on an output of the neuromorphic circuit.
7. The neuromorphic circuit according to claim 6, wherein the regulator is configured to control the device for reinitialising the membrane voltage and modify the register of threshold exceeds in case of exceeding the first or the second regulation voltage by the membrane voltage only during a time window following the emission of an action potential on an output of the neuromorphic circuit, the action potential being of a first or of a second type.
8. The neuromorphic circuit according to claim 7, wherein the regulator is furthermore configured to decide whether or not to generate an action potential of the first type or of the second type (SpikePOS, SpikeNEG) on an output of the neuromorphic circuit at the expiry of said time window.
9. The neuromorphic circuit according to claim 7, wherein the register of threshold exceeds is a counter and the regulator is configured, during said time window, to increment the counter in case of exceeding the second regulation voltage by the membrane voltage and to decrement the counter in case of exceeding the first regulation voltage by the membrane voltage.
10. The neuromorphic circuit according to claim 7, wherein the regulator is furthermore configured, at the expiry of said time window, to generate an action potential of the first type (SpikePOS) and to decrement the counter if the counter indicates a positive value and to generate an action potential of the second type (SpikeNEG) and to increment the counter if the counter indicates a negative value.
11. The neuromorphic circuit according to claim 7, wherein the regulator is furthermore configured to generate an action potential of the first type (SpikePOS), respectively of the second type (SpikeNEG), on the output of the neuromorphic circuit in case of exceeding, outside the time window, the first action voltage, respectively the second action voltage, by the membrane voltage.
12. The neuromorphic circuit according to claim 6, exploiting a same high threshold comparator to constitute the first action comparator and the second regulation comparator and a same low threshold comparator to constitute the second action comparator and the first regulation comparator.
13. Network of artificial neurons, comprising a plurality of neuromorphic circuits according to claim 1.
14. Method for controlling a neuromorphic circuit of the impulse neuron type which comprises a capacitor (Cmem) at the terminals of which is established a membrane voltage (Vmem) and a device for reinitialising the membrane voltage (3), wherein it comprises the steps consisting: following the exceeding of a regulation voltage (Vreg) by the membrane voltage, in controlling the device for reinitialising the membrane voltage and in modifying a register of threshold exceeds; in case of exceeding of an action voltage (Vact) by the membrane voltage, in controlling the device for reinitialising the membrane voltage (3) and in querying the register of threshold exceeds to decide whether or not to generate an action potential (Spa) on an output of the neuromorphic circuit.
</claims>
</document>
