<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34,G06Q10/02,G06Q50/30,G08G1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOYOTA MOTOR ENGINEERING & MANUFACTURING NORTH AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
KESHAVAMURTHY, SHALINI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74038218
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SMART PLACEMENT OF MOBILITY AS A SERVICE (MAAS) TRANSIT VEHICLES
</title>

<abstract>
A system for automatic scheduling of vehicles includes a network access device configured to receive scheduling information corresponding to at least one travel request and including a user-selected starting location and a user-selected destination location. The system further includes a memory configured to store map information including road information and preselected vehicle stops. The system further includes a processor coupled to the network access device and the memory. The processor is designed to identify available vehicles to transport passengers. The processor is further designed to determine routes for the available vehicles to travel, the routes including vehicle stops and being determined based on the scheduling information, the road information, and the preselected vehicle stops. The processor is further designed to control the network access device to transmit the identified routes to the available vehicles.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for automatic scheduling of vehicles, the system comprising: a network access device configured to receive scheduling information corresponding to at least one travel request and including a user-selected starting location and a user-selected destination location; a memory configured to store map information including road information and preselected vehicle stops; and a processor coupled to the network access device and the memory and configured to: identify available vehicles to transport passengers, determine routes for the available vehicles to travel, the routes including vehicle stops and being determined based on the scheduling information, the road information, and the preselected vehicle stops, and control the network access device to transmit the identified routes to the available vehicles.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein: at least one of: the network access device is further configured to receive public transportation schedules, or the memory is further configured to store the public transportation schedules; and the processor is further configured to identify the routes for the available vehicles to travel based on the public transportation schedules.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein the processor is further configured to identify regions for each of the available vehicles to be located based on the scheduling information, the road information, and the preselected vehicle stops before identifying the routes, and to control the network access device to transmit the identified regions to corresponding vehicles of the available vehicles.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein the at least one travel request includes a premium travel request including a specific pickup location and a specific drop-off location, and the processor is configured to determine the routes by determining at least one route that includes the specific pickup location and the specific drop-off location corresponding to the premium travel request.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein the network access device is further configured to receive traffic data corresponding to vehicle traffic or human traffic at various locations, and the processor is further configured to determine additional routes with additional vehicle stops or to change the vehicle stops of the determined routes based on the traffic data.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein the network access device is further configured to receive weather data corresponding to weather events in a predetermined location, and the processor is further configured to determine the routes further based on the received weather data.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein the network access device is further configured to receive vehicle stop locations corresponding to locations at which independent vehicles have at least one of stopped for a predetermined amount of time or parked, and the processor is further configured to determine additional routes with additional vehicle stops or to change the vehicle stops of the determined routes based on the received vehicle stop locations.
8. The system of claim 1 wherein the network access device is further configured to receive vehicle sensor data corresponding to sensor data detected by sensors of multiple vehicles, and the processor is further configured to determine the routes further based on the vehicle sensor data.
9. The system of claim 1 wherein the processor is further configured to perform an artificial intelligence algorithm based on historical data, and to determine the routes using the artificial intelligence algorithm.
10. The system of claim 1 further comprising an edge server having an edge network access device configured to communicate with the network access device and to receive real-time location data corresponding to a real-time location of at least some of the vehicles, and an edge processor coupled to the edge network access device and configured to: receive the determined routes and the scheduling information, the road information, and the preselected vehicle stops via the edge network access device; and adjust at least one of the determined routes based on the real-time location data, the determined routes, the scheduling information, the road information, and the preselected vehicle stops.
11. A system for automatic scheduling of vehicles, the system comprising: a network access device configured to receive vehicle stop locations corresponding to locations at which vehicles have at least one of stopped for a predetermined amount of time or parked; a memory configured to store map information including road information and preselected vehicle stops; and a processor coupled to the network access device and the memory and configured to: identify available vehicles to transport passengers, determine routes for the available vehicles to travel, the routes including vehicle stops and being determined based on the vehicle stop locations, the road information, and the preselected vehicle stops, and control the network access device to transmit the identified routes to the available vehicles.
12. The system of claim 11 wherein the network access device is further configured to receive scheduling information corresponding to at least one travel request and including a user-selected starting location and a user-selected destination location, and the processor is further configured to determine the routes based on the scheduling information.
13. The system of claim 11 wherein: at least one of: the network access device is further configured to receive public transportation schedules, or the memory is further configured to store the public transportation schedules; and the processor is further configured to identify the routes for the available vehicles to travel based on the public transportation schedules.
14. The system of claim 11 wherein the processor is further configured to identify regions for each of the available vehicles to be located based on scheduling information, the road information, and the preselected vehicle stops before identifying the routes, and to control the network access device to transmit the identified regions to corresponding vehicles of the available vehicles.
15. The system of claim 11 wherein the network access device is further configured to receive traffic data corresponding to vehicle traffic or human traffic at various locations, and the processor is further configured to determine additional routes with additional vehicle stops or to change the vehicle stops of the determined routes based on the traffic data.
16. The system of claim 11 wherein the network access device is further configured to receive the vehicle stop locations corresponding to locations at which vehicles have at least one of stopped for a predetermined amount of time or parked, and the processor is further configured to determine additional routes with additional vehicle stops or to change the vehicle stops of the determined routes based on the received vehicle stop locations.
17. The system of claim 11 further comprising an edge server having an edge network access device configured to communicate with the network access device and to receive real-time location data corresponding to a real-time location of at least some of the vehicles, and an edge processor coupled to the edge network access device and configured to: receive the determined routes and scheduling information, the road information, and the preselected vehicle stops via the edge network access device; and adjust at least one of the determined routes based on the real-time location data, the determined routes, the scheduling information, the road information, and the preselected vehicle stops.
18. A method for automatic scheduling of vehicles, the method comprising: receiving, by a network access device, scheduling information corresponding to at least one travel request and including a user-selected starting location and a user-selected destination location; storing, in a memory, map information including road information and preselected vehicle stops; identifying, by a processor, available vehicles to transport passengers; determining, by the processor, routes for the available vehicles to travel based on the scheduling information, the road information, and the preselected vehicle stops, the routes including vehicle stops; and controlling, by the processor, the network access device to transmit the identified routes to the available vehicles.
19. The method of claim 18 further comprising receiving, by the network access device, at least one of vehicle stop locations corresponding to locations at which vehicles have at least one of stopped for a predetermined amount of time or parked or vehicle sensor data corresponding to sensor data detected by sensors of multiple vehicles, wherein determining the routes further includes determining the routes based on the at least one of the vehicle stop locations or the vehicle sensor data.
20. The method of claim 18 further comprising: receiving, by the network access device, traffic data corresponding to at least one of vehicle traffic or human traffic at various locations; and at least one of: determining, by the processor, additional routes with additional vehicle stops based on the traffic data; or changing, by the processor, the vehicle stops of the determined routes based on the traffic data.
</claims>
</document>
