<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/951,H04L12/24,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SPLUNK
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARDIN, ALAN
HSIAO, FANG I
WU, KAN
PURI, ASMITA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65809267
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COLLABORATIVE INCIDENT MANAGEMENT FOR NETWORKED COMPUTING SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
Information technology environment monitoring systems, for example, perform analytics over machine data received from networked entities. Outputs of such a system may be useful to help a user identify a problem and resolve an incident. Inventive aspects enable user interactions to trigger automatic connection with network servers to establish communication channels for conveying analytics and other information related to the problem between and among network nodes participating in the resolution of the problem or incident.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving one or more parameters associated with an incident occurring within a networked computing environment, wherein the one or more parameters specify (i) a first type of communications channel for establishing communications associated with the incident, and (ii) one or more members of an incident response team associated with the incident; enabling, based on the one or more parameters, communications over a network with at least one member included in the incident response team via a communications channel, wherein the communications channel is of the first type; identifying, based on the one or more parameters, at least one service affected by the incident; and causing display of a visualization indicating information associated with the at least one service.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising causing display of a first interactive element associated with the communications channel.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising causing display of a timeline that includes one or more key events associated with the incident, wherein each key event is displayed on the timeline at a given time at which the key event occurred.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising causing display of a timeline that includes one or more key events and a screenshot view, wherein the screenshot view displays a given screen shot based on a selection of a given key event on the timeline.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting the search query via the network at a plurality of different times within a first range of time; for each time included in the plurality of different times, receiving a different value indicating the measure of the at least one service; and causing display of a second visualization based on the different values indicating the measure of the at least one service at the plurality of different times.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting the search query via the network at a plurality of different times within a first range of time; for each time included in the plurality of different times, receiving a different value indicating the measure of the at least one service; determining that at least one value included in the different values exceeds a threshold; and transmitting, to the one or more members via the communications channel, a notification indicating that the at least one value exceeded the threshold.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting the search query via the network at a plurality of different times within a first range of time; for each time included in the plurality of different times, receiving a different value indicating the measure of the at least one service; determining that at least one value included in the different values exceeds a threshold; retrieving incident-related data associated with the at least one service represented by the stored service definition; and causing display of the at least one value and the incident-related data.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one service includes a plurality of services, each service being represented by a different service definition, and further comprising: for each service included in the plurality of services, receiving a different value indicating the measure of the service; causing display of a plurality of graphical controls, wherein each graphical control included in the plurality of graphical controls corresponds to a different service included in the plurality of services; and causing display of a plurality of graphical indicators, wherein: each graphical indicator included in the plurality of graphical indicators is displayed in conjunction with a corresponding graphical control included in the plurality of graphical controls, and each graphical indicator included in the plurality of graphical indicators includes the value indicating the measure of a corresponding service included in the plurality of services.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a check item for a task related to resolving the incident; receiving a drag-and-drop action between a graphical control that corresponds to the check item, and the visualization indicating the status of the at least one service; and in response to receiving the drag-and-drop action, associating the check item with the at least one service.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one service includes a plurality of services, each service being represented by a different service definition, and further comprising: receiving, via the network, information that identifies interdependencies among the services included in the plurality of services; and causing display of a second visualization indicating the interdependencies among the services included in the plurality of services.
11. One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media including instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform the steps of: receiving one or more parameters associated with an incident occurring within a networked computing environment, wherein the one or more parameters specify (i) a first type of communications channel for establishing communications associated with the incident, and (ii) one or more members of an incident response team associated with the incident; enabling, based on the one or more parameters, communications over a network with at least one member included in the incident response team via a communications channel, wherein the communications channel is of the first type; identifying, based on the one or more parameters, at least one service affected by the incident; and causing display of a visualization indicating information associated with the at least one service.
12. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 11, further comprising causing display of a first interactive element associated with the communications channel.
13. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 11, further comprising causing display of a timeline that includes one or more key events associated with the incident, wherein each key event is displayed on the timeline at a given time at which the key event occurred.
14. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 11, further comprising causing display of a timeline that includes one or more key events and a screenshot view, wherein the screenshot view displays a given screen shot based on a selection of a given key event on the timeline.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 11, further comprising: transmitting the search query via the network at a plurality of different times within a first range of time; for each time included in the plurality of different times, receiving a different value indicating the measure of the at least one service; and causing display of a second visualization based on the different values indicating the measure of the at least one service at the plurality of different times.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 11, further comprising: transmitting the search query via the network at a plurality of different times within a first range of time; for each time included in the plurality of different times, receiving a different value indicating the measure of the at least one service; determining that at least one value included in the different values exceeds a threshold; and transmitting, to the one or more members via the communications channel, a notification indicating that the at least one value exceeded the threshold.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 11, further comprising: transmitting the search query via the network at a plurality of different times within a first range of time; for each time included in the plurality of different times, receiving a different value indicating the measure of the at least one service; determining that at least one value included in the different values exceeds a threshold; retrieving incident-related data associated with the at least one service represented by the stored service definition; and causing display of the at least one value and the incident-related data.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 11, wherein the at least one service includes a plurality of services, each service being represented by a different service definition, and further comprising: for each service included in the plurality of services, receiving a different value indicating the measure of the service; causing display of a plurality of graphical controls, wherein each graphical control included in the plurality of graphical controls corresponds to a different service included in the plurality of services; and causing display of a plurality of graphical indicators, wherein: each graphical indicator included in the plurality of graphical indicators is displayed in conjunction with a corresponding graphical control included in the plurality of graphical controls, and each graphical indicator included in the plurality of graphical indicators includes the value indicating the measure of a corresponding service included in the plurality of services.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 11, further comprising: identifying a check item for a task related to resolving the incident; receiving a drag-and-drop action between a graphical control that corresponds to the check item, and the visualization indicating the status of the at least one service; and in response to receiving the drag-and-drop action, associating the check item with the at least one service.
20. A computing device, comprising: a memory that includes a collaborative incident management program; and a processor that is coupled to the memory that executes the collaborative incident management program by: receiving one or more parameters associated with an incident occurring within a networked computing environment, wherein the one or more parameters specify (i) a first type of communications channel for establishing communications associated with the incident, and (ii) one or more members of an incident response team associated with the incident; enabling, based on the one or more parameters, communications over a network with at least one member included in the incident response team via a communications channel, wherein the communications channel is of the first type; identifying, based on the one or more parameters, at least one service affected by the incident; and causing display of a visualization indicating information associated with the at least one service.
</claims>
</document>
