<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B47/008,G01R31/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON
HALLIBURTON COMPANY
Frontender Corporation
</assignee>

<inventors>
NIKOLAOU, MICHAEL
SAPUTELLI, LUIGI
GUPTA, SUPRIYA
Bravo, Cesar
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59850903
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETECTING, DIAGNOSING, AND CORRECTING TRIPS OR FAILURES OF ELECTRICAL SUBMERSIBLE PUMPS
</title>

<abstract>
The electrical submersible pump (ESP) is currently the fastest growing artificial-lift pumping technology. Deployed across 15 to 20 percent of oil-wells worldwide, ESPs are an efficient and reliable option at high production volumes and greater depths. However, ESP performance is often observed to decline gradually and reach the point of service interruption due to factors like high gas volumes, high temperature, and corrosion. The financial impact of ESP failure is substantial, from both lost production and replacement costs. Therefore, ESP performance in extensively monitored, and numerous workflows exist to suggest actions in case of break-downs. However, such workflows are reactive in nature, i.e., action is taken after tripping or failure. Therefore, a data-driven analytical framework is proposed to advance towards a proactive approach to ESP health monitoring based on predictive analytics to detect impending problems, diagnose their cause, and prescribe preventive action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for monitoring performance of an electrical submersible pump (ESP) in a well, the method comprising: selecting a plurality of decision variables; obtaining real-time data related to the plurality of decision variables; detecting patterns from the plurality of decision variables indicating impending events; ranking the plurality of decision variables based on contribution of each variable to the impending events; determining which of the plurality of decision variables are outside a stable operating range; and suggesting remedial action to prevent impending events.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the impending events are a trip or a failure.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the real-time data includes information of the plurality of decision variables across surface, wellbore, and downhole gauges, and on whether a trip or failure occurred.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting a plurality of decision variables; collecting data related to the plurality of decision variables; establishing patterns from the plurality of decision variables indicating absence of impending events (normal operation); and determining a stable operating range for each of the plurality of decision variables.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the collected data includes (i) time-series of information of the plurality of decision variables across surface, wellbore, and downhole gauges and (ii) times at which the trip or the failure occurred.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of decision variables include at least one or more of the following: flowline pressure, wellhead pressure, wellhead temperature, motor current, pump intake pressure, pump discharge pressure, intake temperature, leakage current, motor temperature, system vibration, water cut, free gas intake, total liquid flow rate, system efficiency, pump liquid density, pump head, total pump head, ΔP across pump, ΔP across choke, or ΔP ESP across wellhead.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising using a Robust Principle Component Analysis (PCA) methodology to model the plurality of decision variables to establish patterns in collected data and to identify such patterns in the real-time data.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising removing outlier data from the collected data or from the real-time data.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising identifying a training dataset from a stable time period free from impending events where the plurality of decision variables operate at a stable value, and using this dataset to build the Robust PCA model.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising testing the Robust PCA model built, by comparing the model's predictions of impending events to actual events in the testing dataset, in which deviations from stable behavior of each of the plurality of decision variables actually occurred.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a contribution of each of the plurality of decision variables and assigning a priority to each of the plurality of decision variables based on their respective contribution.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising ranking the plurality of decision variables based on computed average contribution.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising creating a ranking chart to determine which of the plurality of decision variables is causing one or more of the impending events.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising predicting the impending events before occurrence and preventing the impending events by using a data-driven analytical framework.
15. A method for predicting and preventing electrical submersible pump (ESP) trip and failure events, the method comprising: collecting data, in real-time, from a well and an ESP positioned in a well via a plurality of sensors; manipulating historical data to determine and evaluate a plurality of decision variables; using mathematical models to derive trends and patterns based on a relationship between the plurality of decision variables and behavior of the ESP; associating the trends and patterns with trip and failure events; diagnosing causes of the trip and failure events; and prescribing remedial action to prevent the trip and failure events.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising ranking the plurality of decision variables based on contribution to the impending events.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising determining a stable operating range of each of the plurality of decision variables.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the collected or real-time data includes (i) time-series of information of the plurality of decision variables across surface, wellbore, and downhole gauges and (ii) on whether a trip or the failure occurred.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the plurality of decision variables include at least one or more of the following: flowline pressure, wellhead pressure, wellhead temperature, motor current, pump intake pressure, pump discharge pressure, intake temperature, leakage current, motor temperature, system vibration, water cut, free gas intake, total liquid flow rate, system efficiency, pump liquid density, pump head, total pump head, ΔP across pump, ΔP across choke, or ΔP ESP across wellhead.
20. The method of claim 15, further comprising using a Robust Principle Component Analysis (PCA) methodology to model the plurality of decision variables to identify the trends and patterns in the real-time data collected.
21. The method of claim 15, further comprising: inputting a training dataset in the Robust PCA model, the training dataset derived from a stable time period free from trip or failure events where the plurality of decision variables operate at a stable value; inputting a prediction dataset by identifying windows of time periods when deviations from stable behavior of each of the plurality of decision variables is detected; and obtaining trip zone scores and comparing the trip zone scores with stable zone statistics.
22. A system for monitoring performance of an electrical submersible pump (ESP) in a well, the system comprising at least one processor used to control a software algorithm to: select a plurality of decision variables; obtain real-time data related to the plurality of decision variables; detect patterns from the plurality of decision variables indicating impending events; rank the plurality of decision variables based on contribution of each variable to the impending events; determine which of the plurality of decision variables are operating outside a stable operating range; and suggest remedial action to prevent impending events.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the software algorithm further identifies a training dataset to build a Robust PCA model, the training dataset derived from a stable time period free from impending events where the plurality of decision variables operate at a stable value.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the software algorithm further tests the Robust PCA model built, by comparing the model's predictions of impending events to actual events in the testing dataset, in which deviations from stable behavior of each of the plurality of decision variables actually occurred.
25. A system for predicting and preventing electrical submersible pump (ESP) trip and failure events, the system comprising at least one processor used to control a software algorithm to: collect data, in real-time, from a well and an ESP positioned in a well via a plurality of sensors; manipulate historical data to determine and evaluate a plurality of decision variables; use mathematical models to derive trends and patterns based on a relationship between the plurality of decision variables and behavior of the ESP; associate the trends and patterns with trip and failure events; diagnose causes of the trip and failure events; and prescribe remedial action to prevent the trip and failure events.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the software algorithm further receives a training dataset in a Robust PCA model, the training dataset derived from a stable time period free from impending events where the plurality of decision variables operate at a stable value.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the software algorithm comprises a Robust Principle Component Analysis (PCA) methodology to model the plurality of decision variables to establish patterns in collected data and to identify such patterns in the real-time data.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein the software algorithm determines a stable operating range for each of the plurality of decision variables
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the software algorithm further tests the model by inputting a prediction dataset by identifying windows of time periods when deviations from stable behavior of each of the plurality of decision variables is detected.
</claims>
</document>
