<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAN, JAE JOON
SON, JINWOO
SON, CHANGYONG
LEE, SEOHYUNG
JUNG, SANGIL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69642310
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TRAINING USER TERMINAL
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a method and apparatus for training a user terminal. A user terminal may authenticate a user input using an authentication model of the user terminal, generate a gradient to train the authentication model from the user input, in response to a success in the authentication, accumulate the generated gradient in positive gradients, and train the authentication model based on the positive gradients.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for training a user terminal, the method comprising: authenticating a user input using an authentication model of the user terminal; generating a gradient to train the authentication model from the user input, in response to a success in the authentication; accumulating the generated gradient in positive gradients; and training the authentication model based on the positive gradients.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating comprises generating gradients for layers of the authentication model, and the positive gradients comprise positive gradients corresponding to the layers.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the accumulating comprises accumulating the generated gradients in gradient containers corresponding to the respective layers.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the training further comprises: generating gradients to train the authentication model from negative inputs; accumulating the gradients from negative inputs in the negative gradients; and training the authentication model based on the positive gradients and the negative gradients.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the accumulating of the negative gradients comprises: generating negative gradients for layers of the authentication model; and accumulating the generated negative gradients in gradient containers corresponding to the respective layers.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the authentication model is trained to perform an authentication, wherein the training comprises optimizing parameters for layers of the authentication model based on the positive gradients and the negative gradients.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein the accumulating of the negative gradients comprises generating negative inputs from noise using a generative adversarial network (GAN).
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining first user inputs corresponding to first features pre-enrolled by the authentication model; extracting second features from the first user inputs using the authentication model, in response to the training being completed; and updating the first features with the extracted second features.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein authentication is performed using a remaining portion excluding a portion of layers of the authentication model, and the generated gradient and the positive gradients correspond to the remaining portion.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the remaining portion comprises at least one layer having an update level of the training being lower than a threshold.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: obtaining middle features corresponding to first features pre-enrolled by the authentication model, the middle features corresponding to the remaining portion; extracting second features from the middle features using the remaining portion of the authentication model, in response to the training being completed; and updating the first features with the second features.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating comprises: extracting a feature from the user input using the authentication model implemented as a neural network; generating a loss of the authentication model based on the extracted feature and a pre-enrolled feature; and generating a gradient based on the generated loss.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the user input comprises any one or any combination of a facial image, a biosignal, a fingerprint, or a voice of the user.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform the method of claim 1.
15. An authentication method of a user terminal, the authentication method comprising: obtaining an input to be authenticated; extracting a feature from the input using an authentication model of the user terminal; performing an authentication with respect to the input based on the feature and a pre-enrolled feature; generating a gradient to train the authentication model from the input and accumulating the generated gradient in positive gradients, in response to a success in the authentication; and performing an authentication with respect to a second user input.
16. A user terminal, comprising: a processor configured to: authenticate a user input using an authentication model of the user terminal, generate a gradient to train the authentication model from the user input, in response to a success in the authentication, accumulate the generated gradient in positive gradients, and train the authentication model based on the positive gradients.
17. The user terminal of claim 16, wherein the processor is further configured to generate gradients for layers of the authentication model, and the positive gradients comprise positive gradients corresponding to the layers.
18. The user terminal of claim 16, wherein the processor is further configured to: generate gradients to train the authentication model from negative inputs; accumulate the generated gradients from negative inputs in the negative gradients; and train the authentication model based on the positive gradients and the negative gradients.
19. The user terminal of claim 16, wherein the processor is further configured to: obtain first user inputs corresponding to first features pre-enrolled by the authentication model, extract second features from the first user inputs using the authentication model, in response to the training being completed, and update the first features with the extracted second features.
20. The user terminal of claim 16, wherein the processor is further configured to authenticate the user input using a remaining portion excluding a portion of layers of the authentication model, and the generated gradient and the positive gradients correspond to the remaining portion.
21. The user terminal of claim 20, wherein the processor is further configured to: obtain middle features corresponding to first features pre-enrolled by the authentication model, the middle features corresponding to the remaining portion, extract second features from the middle features using the remaining portion of the authentication model, in response to the training being completed, and update the first features with the second features.
22. An apparatus comprising: a sensor configured to receive an input from a user; a memory configured to store an authentication model and instructions; and a processor configured to execute the instructions to: authenticate the input using the authentication model, generate a gradient based on a difference between a feature extracted from the input and an enrolled feature, in response to a success in the authentication, accumulate the gradient in positive gradients, and train the authentication model based on the positive gradients.
23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the processor is further configured to determine the success of the authentication based on a comparison of the difference to a threshold.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein processor is further configured to: generate negative gradients from noise data, and an amount of negative gradients is in proportion to an amount of positive gradients, and train the authentication model based on the positive gradients and the negative gradients.
</claims>
</document>
