<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/02,G06Q30/02,G16H10/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KRISHNAN, AKSHAY
KRISHNAN, ANJALI
KRISHNAN, MAHESH
</assignee>

<inventors>
KRISHNAN, AKSHAY
KRISHNAN, ANJALI
KRISHNAN, MAHESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69139548
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR TARGETING AUDIENCES FOR HEALTH BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION USING DIGITAL ADVERTISEMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention uses micro and nano segmentation to create targeted digital content, in the form of segment specific static ads, pictures, carousel, mobile new feeds, video, canvas and other ad types. For example, if the motivation for a health change in an individual is for the sake of their family, specific images or video from social media may be effective in tying the rationale for the change to the messaging. This content can then be delivered is static ads, in carousels or other media options. The content is targeted to a specific user using conventional and unconventional social media targeting systems to assist with the creation of custom campaign delivered over social media for the purposes of influencing positive health behavior. Data such as including browsing history, social media posts, Interests, Gender, Relationship Status, Educational Status, Age, Location, Language as well as user specific medical and non medical data sources including but not limited to demographics, medical history, treatments, credit score data and report information etc. will be used with a machine learning algorithm to create digital patient phenotypes or cohorts and associate them with the probability that a given digital media campaign will be maximally affect to influence individuals in that cohort to affect the desired behavior change. Example may include what graphic elements are included in the digital materials, the frequency of delivering that content, the channels use etc.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for targeting audiences for health behavior modification using digital advertisements, comprising: a program targeting users who enroll in the program; the program determining and customizing social media advertising parameters for that user through a logic engine; the program creating a customized HIPAA compliant microtargeted health campaign that takes 3 different forms: a. the first form is an advertising manager that uses A/B testing to further customize advertisements for the user; b. the second form is an artificial intelligence enabled chatbot; c. the third form is a survey engine, which sends questions about behavior modification to the user via social media.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: The program utilizing the techniques of population health management to aggregate patient data across multiple health information technology resources and compile an analysis of that data into a single, actionable patient record; the program using this single, actionable patient record to keep track of advertising campaigns, analyze the feedback from those campaigns, and create an increasingly more accurate HIPAA compliant microtargeted health campaign for the user.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising: the program utilizing the friends of the user on social media to help reinforce health behavior modification; the program suggesting information to the friends of the user on social media in a synchronized manner with the campaign, such as at the same time that the campaign is sending out the suggested information.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising: the program utilizing micro and nano targeted digital advertisements in the form of static ads, picture, carousel, mobile new feeds, video, canvas and other ad types; the advertisements being based on social media targeting systems including browsing history, social media posts, interests, Gender, Relationship Status, Educational Status, Age, Location, and Language.
5. The system of claim 1, further comprising: the program collecting feedback from the user's engagement with the content; the program feeding that feedback through a machine learning algorithm to allow for continuous refinement of targeting and content delivery of the digital advertisements to maximize the chances of the desired behavioral change.
6. A method for targeting audiences for health behavior modification using digital advertisements, comprising: a program targeting users who enroll in the program; the program determining and customizing social media advertising parameters for that user through a logic engine; the program creating a customized HIPAA compliant microtargeted health campaign that takes 3 different forms: a. the first form is an advertising manager that uses AM testing to further customize advertisements for the user; b. the second form is an artificial intelligence enabled chatbot; c. the third form is a survey engine, which sends questions about behavior modification to the user via social media.
7. The method of claim 6, farther comprising: the program utilizing the techniques of population health management to aggregate patient data across multiple health information technology resources and compile an analysis of that data into a single, actionable patient record; the program using this single, actionable patient record to keep track of advertising campaigns, analyze the feedback from those campaigns, and create an increasingly more accurate HIPAA compliant microtargeted health campaign for the user.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising: the program utilizing the friends of the user on social media to help reinforce health behavior modification; the program suggesting information to the friends of the user on social media in a synchronized manner with the campaign, such as at the same time that the campaign is sending out the suggested information.
9. The method of claim 6, further comprising: the program utilizing micro and nano targeted digital advertisements in the form of static ads, picture, carousel, mobile new feeds, video, canvas and other ad types; the advertisements being based on social media targeting systems including browsing history, social media posts, Interests, Gender, Relationship Status, Educational Status, Age, Location, and Language;
10. The method of claim 6, further comprising: the program collecting feedback from the user's engagement with the content; the program feeding that feedback through a machine learning algorithm to allow for continuous refinement of targeting and content delivery of the digital advertisements to maximize the chances of the desired behavioral change.
11. A method for targeting audiences for health behavior modification using digital advertisements, comprising: a program targeting users who enroll in the program; the program determining and customizing social media advertising parameters for that user through a logic engine; the program creating a customized country-specific individual health data transmission and storage regulation compliant health campaign that takes 3 different forms: a. the first form is an advertising manager that uses A/B testing to further customize advertisements for the user; b. the second form is an artificial intelligence enabled chatbot; c. the third form is a survey engine, which sends questions about behavior modification to the user via social media; the program utilizing the techniques of population health management to aggregate patient data across multiple health information technology resources and compile an analysis of that data into a single, actionable patient record; the program using this single, actionable patient record to keep track of advertising campaigns, analyze the feedback from those campaigns, and create an increasingly more accurate HIPAA compliant microtargeted health campaign for the user; the program utilizing the friends of the user on social media to help reinforce health behavior modification; the program suggesting information to the friends of the user on social media in a synchronized manner with the campaign, such as at the same time that the campaign is sending out the suggested information; the program utilizing micro and nano targeted digital advertisements in the form of static ads, picture, carousel, mobile new feeds, video, canvas and other ad types; the advertisements being based on social media targeting systems including browsing history, social media posts, Interests, Gender, Relationship Status, Educational Status, Age, Location, and Language.
12. The method of claim I 1, further comprising: the advertising manager that is the first form of the health campaign of the program also includes machine learning to limber customize advertisements for the user; the program collecting feedback from the user's engagement with the content; the program feeding that feedback through a machine learning algorithm to allow for continuous refinement of targeting and content delivery of the digital advertisements to maximize the chances of the desired behavioral change.
</claims>
</document>
