<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/08,H04L9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAKSHIT, SARBAJIT K.
SANTHAR, SATHYA
SIVARAMALINGAM, BALAMURUGARAMANATHAN
JAWAHARLAL, SAMUEL M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69139585
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PERISHABLE ASSET TRACKING FOR BLOCKCHAIN
</title>

<abstract>
An example operation may include one or more of receiving, by a blockchain node, a first transaction comprising an asset identifier and an expiration date, verifying the expiration date has not changed from one or more previous transactions comprising the asset identifier, calculating an expected delivery date for an asset corresponding to the asset identifier, validating the first transaction in response to the expected delivery date not later than the expiration date. and committing the first transaction to a blockchain.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a blockchain node, a first transaction comprising an asset identifier and an expiration date; verifying the expiration date has not changed from one or more previous transactions comprising the asset identifier; calculating an expected delivery date for an asset corresponding to the asset identifier; validating the first transaction in response to the expected delivery date not later than the expiration date; and committing the first transaction to a blockchain.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first transaction further comprising an end user identifier, the end user identifier identifying a consumer to receive the asset, the asset being perishable and not recommended for use after the expiration date.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: transferring the asset to one of a logistics node or the consumer, in response to validating the first transaction; and creating a second transaction corresponding to transferring the asset to one of the logistics node or the consumer.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein in response to the expiration date has changed from the one or more previous transactions: preventing transferring the asset to one of a logistics node or the consumer.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein calculating the expected delivery date comprising: obtaining a logistics history for relevant assets, relevant assets comprising a same or similar asset type as the asset; reviewing the logistics history to determine one or more actual delivery dates for the relevant assets; and equating the expected delivery date to the one or more actual delivery dates, based on an actual delivery date corresponding to a same manufacturer and logistics path being used for the asset.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein in response to the expected delivery date being later than the expiration date, one of: adjusting the expected delivery date by expediting the asset, wherein expediting the asset resulting in the expected delivery date being at or before the expiration date; or rejecting the first transaction in response to expediting the asset is not possible.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein rejecting the first transaction comprising one or more of: sending an alert to the consumer; and reordering the asset and creating a third transaction corresponding to reordering the asset.
8. A system, comprising: a blockchain network, which comprises: a manufacturer node, configured to manufacture an asset; a first logistics node, which comprises: a memory; and a processor, coupled to the memory, configured to: receive a first transaction, the first transaction comprises an asset identifier and an expiration date; verify the expiration date has not changed from any previous transactions which comprises the asset identifier; calculate an expected delivery date for the asset corresponding to the asset identifier; validate the first transaction in response to the expected delivery date not later than the expiration date; and commit the first transaction to a blockchain.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the first transaction further comprises an end user identifier, the end user identifier identifies a consumer to receive the asset, the asset being perishable and not recommended for use after the expiration date.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the first logistics node is further configured to transfer the asset to one of a second logistics node or the consumer in response to validating the first transaction, and create a second transaction corresponding to transferring the asset to one of the second logistics node or the consumer.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein in response to the expiration date has changed from one or more previous transactions which comprises the asset identifier: the first logistics node prevents transfer of the asset to one of the second logistics node or the consumer.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the processor calculates the expected delivery date comprises the processor: obtains a logistics history for relevant assets, relevant assets comprises a same or similar asset type as the asset; reviews the logistics history to determine one or more actual delivery dates for the relevant assets; and equates the expected delivery date to the one or more actual delivery dates, based on an actual delivery date corresponding to the same manufacturer node and logistics path being used for the asset.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein in response to the expected delivery date is later than the expiration date, one of the processor: adjusts the expected delivery date comprises the first logistics node expedites the asset, wherein the first logistics node expedites the asset results in the expected delivery date is at or before the expiration date or rejects the first transaction in response to the first logistics node determines the asset cannot be expedited.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the first logistics node rejects the first transaction comprises one or more of the first logistics node sends an alert to the consumer and the first logistics node reorders the asset and creates a third transaction corresponding to the first logistics node reorders the asset.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions, that when read by a processor, cause the processor to perform: receiving, by a blockchain node, a first transaction comprising an asset identifier and an expiration date; verifying the expiration date has not changed from one or more previous transactions comprising the asset identifier; calculating an expected delivery date for an asset corresponding to the asset identifier; validating the first transaction in response to the expected delivery date not later than the expiration date; and committing the first transaction to a blockchain.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first transaction further comprising an end user identifier, the end user identifier identifying a consumer to receive the asset, the asset being perishable and not recommended for use after the expiration date.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, further comprising: transferring the asset to one of a logistics node or the consumer, in response to validating the first transaction; and creating a second transaction corresponding to transferring the asset to one of the logistics node or the consumer.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein in response to the expiration date has changed from the one or more previous transactions: preventing transferring the asset to one of a logistics node or the consumer.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein calculating the expected delivery date comprising: obtaining a logistics history for relevant assets, relevant assets comprising a same or similar asset type as the asset; reviewing the logistics history to determine one or more actual delivery dates for the relevant assets; and equating the expected delivery date to the one or more actual delivery dates, based on an actual delivery date corresponding to a same manufacturer and logistics path being used for the asset.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 19, wherein in response to the expected delivery date being later than the expiration date, one of: adjusting the expected delivery date by expediting the asset, wherein expediting the asset resulting in the expected delivery date being at or before the expiration date; or rejecting the first transaction in response to expediting the asset is not possible, wherein rejecting the first transaction comprising one or more of: sending an alert to the consumer; and reordering the asset and creating a third transaction corresponding to reordering the asset.
</claims>
</document>
