<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/22,G10L15/30,G10L25/84
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, MINSEOK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71072850
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TERMINAL DEVICE AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
A terminal device is provided. The terminal device includes a communication interface, and a processor configured to receive performance information of one or more other terminal devices from each of the one or more other terminal devices, identify an edge device to perform voice recognition based on the performance information received from each of the one or more other terminal devices, based on the terminal device being identified as the edge device, receive information associated with reception quality from one or more other terminal devices which receive a sound wave including a triggering word, determine a terminal device to acquire the sound wave for voice recognition from based on the received information associated with the reception quality, and transmit, to the determined terminal device, a command to transmit the sound wave acquired for voice recognition to an external voice recognition device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A terminal device comprising: a communication interface comprising communication circuitry; and a processor configured to: receive performance information of one or more other terminal devices from each of the one or more other terminal devices through the communication interface, identify an edge device to determine a terminal device to perform voice recognition from among the terminal device and the one or more other terminal devices based on the performance information received from each of the one or more other terminal devices, based on the terminal device being identified as the edge device, receive information associated with reception quality from one or more other terminal devices which receive a sound wave including a triggering word from among the one or more other terminal devices which transmit the performance information, determine a terminal device to acquire the sound wave for voice recognition from based on the received information associated with the reception quality, from among the one or more other terminal devices which receive the sound wave, and transmit, to the determined terminal device, a command to transmit the sound wave acquired for voice recognition to an external voice recognition device.
2. The terminal device of claim 1, wherein the performance information received from each of the one or more other terminal devices comprises a first score that is acquired based on performance of the one or more other terminal devices, and wherein the information associated with reception quality that is received from the one or more other terminal devices which receive the sound wave comprises a second score that represents reception quality associated with the sound wave received by the one or more other terminal devices.
3. The terminal device of claim 2, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a terminal device having a highest second score value, from among the one or more other terminal devices which receive the sound wave, as a terminal device to acquire the sound wave for voice recognition.
4. The terminal device of claim 2, further comprising: a microphone, wherein the processor is further configured to: based on the sound wave including the triggering word being received at the microphone, acquire a second score of the terminal device based on at least a part of the sound wave, determine a terminal device having a highest second score, from among the terminal device and the one or more other terminal devices which receive the sound wave, as a terminal device to acquire the sound wave for voice recognition, and based on the terminal device being determined as a terminal device to acquire the sound wave, acquire a portion of the sound wave that is received after the triggering word, and transmit the acquired portion of the sound wave to an external voice recognition device.
5. The terminal device of claim 2, wherein the information on the reception quality is acquired based on at least one of a signal to noise ratio (SNR), a volume of the received sound wave, a change rate of the volume of the received sound wave, sound pressure, and distance from a source of the sound wave.
6. The terminal device of claim 2, wherein the performance information is acquired based on at least one of a number of connected other terminal devices, a number of types of available communication networks, a connection method with a server, a power supply method, processing performance, memory performance, or a location movement status.
7. The terminal device of claim 2, wherein the processor is further configured to, based on a second score of the determined terminal device being less than a preset value, change a terminal device having a highest second score value, from among one or more other terminal devices which receive the sound wave, as the terminal device to acquire the sound wave for voice recognition.
8. The terminal device of claim 2, wherein at least one of a first score or a second score received from each of the one or more other terminal devices comprises information on at least one of the first score or the second score of a terminal device which is in communication with the one or more other terminal devices and which is not in communication with the terminal device.
9. The terminal device of claim 1, further comprising: a memory including a voice recognition module, wherein the processor is further configured to: based on the sound wave being received from the determined terminal device, perform voice recognition on the sound wave using the voice recognition module, and transmit the voice recognition result to an external server, and wherein the external server is configured to: determine a terminal device to perform an operation to correspond to the voice recognition result from among the terminal device and the one or more other terminal devices based on the voice recognition result, and transmit an operation execution command corresponding to the voice recognition result to the terminal device to perform the operation.
10. The terminal device of claim 2, further comprising: a microphone, wherein the processor is further configured to: based on the first score of the terminal device being less than the first score of the one or more other terminal devices, determine the one or more other terminal devices having a highest first score, from among the one or more other terminal devices, as an edge device, based on the sound wave including the triggering word being received at the microphone, acquire information associated with reception quality based on at least a part of the sound wave, and transmit the acquired information on the reception quality to the determined edge device.
11. The terminal device of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to, based on the second score of the terminal device being less than a preset value, not transmit the second score to the determined edge device.
12. A method of controlling a terminal device, the method comprising: receiving information on performance information of one or more other terminal devices from each of the one or more other terminal devices; identifying an edge device to determine a terminal device to perform voice recognition from among the terminal device and the one or more other terminal devices based on the performance information received from each of the one or more other terminal devices; based on the terminal device being identified as the edge device, receiving information associated with reception quality from one or more other terminal devices which receive a sound wave including a triggering word from among the one or more other terminal devices which transmit the performance information; determining a terminal device to acquire the sound wave for voice recognition from based on the received information associated with the reception quality, from among the one or more other terminal devices which receive the sound wave; and transmitting, to the determined terminal device, a command to transmit the sound wave acquired for voice recognition to an external voice recognition device.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the performance information received from each of the one or more other terminals device comprises a first score that is acquired based on performance of the one or more other terminal devices, and wherein the information associated with reception quality that is received from the one or more other terminal devices which receive the sound wave comprises a second score that represents reception quality associated with the sound wave received by the one or more other terminal devices.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the determining comprises determining a terminal device having a highest second score value, from among the one or more other terminal devices which receive the sound wave, as a terminal device to acquire the sound wave for voice recognition.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the determining comprises: based on the sound wave including the triggering word being received at the microphone, acquiring a second score of the terminal device based on at least a part of the sound wave, determining a terminal device having a highest second score, from among the terminal device and the one or more other terminal devices which receive the sound wave, as a terminal device to acquire the sound wave for voice recognition, based on the terminal device being determined as a terminal device to acquire the sound wave, acquiring a portion of the sound wave that is received after the triggering word, and transmitting the acquired portion of the sound wave to an external voice recognition device.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the information on the reception quality is acquired based on at least one of a signal to noise ratio (SNR), a volume of the received sound wave, a change rate of the volume of the received sound wave, sound pressure, and distance from a source of the sound wave.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the performance information is acquired based on at least one of a number of connected other terminal devices, a number of types of available communication networks, a connection method with a server, a power supply method, processing performance, memory performance, or location movement status.
18. The method of claim 13, further comprising: based on a second score of the determined terminal device being less than a preset value, changing a terminal device having a highest second score value, from among one or more other terminal devices which receive the voice, as a terminal device to acquire the sound wave for voice recognition.
19. The method of claim 13, wherein at least one of a first score or a second score received from each of the one or more other terminal devices comprises information on at least one of the first score or the second score of a terminal device which is in communication with the one or more other terminal devices and which is not in communication with the terminal device.
20. The method of claim 12, further comprising: based on the sound wave being received from the determined terminal device, performing voice recognition on the sound wave using the voice recognition module stored in a memory; and transmitting the voice recognition result to an external server, wherein the external server determines a terminal device to perform an operation to correspond to the voice recognition result from among the terminal device and the one or more other terminal devices based on the voice recognition result, and transmits an operation execution command corresponding to the voice recognition result to the terminal device to perform the operation.
21. A first terminal device comprising: a communication interface configured to communicate over a communication network; a memory; and at least one processor in communication with the memory, the at least one processor configured to: determine first performance information associated with the first terminal device, receive, from a second terminal device via the communication interface, second performance information associated with the second terminal device, receive, from a third terminal device via the communication interface, third performance information associated with the third terminal device, and select an edge device based on the first performance information, the second performance information, and the third performance information, the edge device being selected from the first terminal device, the second terminal device, and the third terminal device, wherein the edge device performs voice recognition on a sound wave including a command when the sound wave received by the edge device exceeds a predetermined reception quality threshold.
22. The first terminal of claim 21, wherein the edge device further identifies a user associated with the sound wave.
23. The first terminal of claim 21, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to update a device list based on the edge device being selected.
</claims>
</document>
