<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60Q9/00,G07C5/00,G07C5/08,G08B21/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAMBRIDGE MOBILE TELEMATICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
HICKS, JR., JAMES E.
BALAKRISHNAN, HARI
MADDEN, SAMUEL ROSS
GIROD, LEWIS DAVID
Bowne, Ben
Wellman, Katherine
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72604375
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SAFETY FOR VEHICLE USERS
</title>

<abstract>
Personal safety concerns for users of vehicles can be indicated, identified, communicated, analyzed, or acted on to make the users and other participants in the technology aware of the safety concerns and to reduce the risks to the users associated with the safety concerns. Personal safety concerns can be recognized based on safety concern triggers. Once recognized, the personal safety concerns can be reported to the users and other participants in the technology by safety alerts. The safety alert can prompt one or more telematics devices at the vehicle to capture, store, or transmit telematics data, including, for example, audio, image, or video data or combinations of them. The captured telematics data can be used to verify the safety alert and the safety concern and present the captured data to a third party participant to enable the third party participant to determine an appropriate response or action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A camera, comprising: a housing comprising camera circuitry; and a moveable stalk extending from the housing, the stalk comprising a first end and a second end, the first end being moveably coupled with the housing, the second end including an image sensor.
2. The camera of claim 1, in which the camera circuity comprises a processor and storage for instructions executable by the processor to cause the camera to capture one or more images.
3. The camera of claim 1, in which the camera circuitry comprises one or more communications circuits.
4. The camera of claim 3, in which the one or more communications circuits include one or a combination of two or more of a Bluetooth communications circuit, a WiFi communications circuit, and a cellular communications circuit.
5. The camera of claim 1, in which the camera circuity comprises one or more sensors.
6. The camera of claim 5, in which the one or more sensors include one or more of an accelerometer, a magnetometer, a barometer, a speedometer, a gyroscope, a compass, a position sensor, and a microphone.
7. The camera of claim 1, comprising an actuator configured to rotate the moveable stalk in response to signals from the camera circuitry.
8. The camera of claim 1, in which the housing comprises one or more batteries configured to power the camera.
9. The camera of claim 1, in which a first side of the housing comprises a recess.
10. The camera of claim 9, in which the recess is configured to hold a solar panel.
11. The camera of claim 9, in which the first side of the housing comprises one or more adhesive strips.
12. The camera of claim 9, in which a second side of the housing comprises one or more ventilation ports, the second side of the housing being opposite the first side.
13. The camera of claim 1, comprising a flexible connector for electrically coupling the first image sensor to the camera circuitry.
14. The camera of claim 1, in which the moveable stalk extends along a first axis and is rotatable about a second axis, the first axis being perpendicular to the second axis.
15. The camera of claim 14, in which at least a portion of the moveable stalk is rotatable about the first axis.
16. The camera of claim 1, in which the housing comprises a speaker.
17. The camera of claim 1, in which the image sensor comprises an infrared (IR) image sensor.
18. The camera of claim 17, comprising an IR illuminator configured to illuminate the field of view of the image sensor.
19. The camera of claim 1, comprising a second image sensor included within the moveable stalk.
20. The camera of claim 19, in which the second image sensor is positioned toward the first end of the stalk.
21. The camera of claim 19, in which the second image sensor is positioned on the opposite side of the moveable stalk from the first image.
22. The camera of claim 19, in which the second image sensor include a wide-angle lens.
23. The camera of claim 1, comprising an LED indicator included within the moveable stalk.
24. The camera of claim 1, in which the moveable stalk is moveably coupled to the housing by a pivot mechanism.
25. The camera of claim 24, in which the pivot mechanism comprises one or more O-rings.
26. The camera of claim 25, in which the material of one or more of the O-rings have a Shore A hardness between about 75 and about 90.
27. A method, comprising: receiving, at a telematics device at a vehicle, a connection from a mobile device, the telematics device including a camera positioned to capture one or more images at the vehicle; and in response to receiving the connection, providing one or more signals to cause the camera to capture one or more images at the vehicle.
28. The method of claim 27, in which the camera is an inward-facing camera positioned to capture the one or more images of an interior of the vehicle.
29. The method of claim 28, in which the inward-facing camera is positioned to capture the one or more images of both a front seat and a rear seat of the vehicle.
30. The method of claim 27, in which the camera is an outward-facing camera positioned to capture the one or more images of an area exterior to the vehicle.
31. The method of claim 27, in which the camera is coupled with an actuator configured to move the camera in response to the one or more signals.
32. The method of claim 27, in which the camera is configured to zoom in or zoom out in response to the one or more signals.
33. The method of claim 27, in which the camera comprises an infrared (IR) camera.
34. The method of claim 33, in which the camera includes an IR illuminator configured to illuminate an area within the view of the camera.
35. The method of claim 27, in which the camera includes a wide-angle lens.
36. The method of claim 27, in which the telematics device is configured to be attached within the vehicle.
37. The method of claim 36, in which the telematics device includes a permanent adhesive or a semi-permanent adhesive for attachment within the vehicle.
38. The method of claim 27, in which the one or more images comprise a video.
39. The method of claim 27, in which the camera is configured to capture the one or more images at a rate indicated by the one or more signals.
40. The method of claim 27, in which the camera is configured to capture the one or more images at a resolution indicated by the one or more signals.
41. The method of claim 40, in which a first image of the one or more images is captured at a first resolution, and in which a second image of the one or more images is captured at a second resolution, the first resolution being different than the second resolution.
42. The method of claim 27, in which the telematics device includes a microphone configured to record audio in response to the one or more signals.
43. The method of claim 27, in which the telematics device comprises a tag device or a video tag device.
44. The method of claim 27, in which the telematics device comprises a mobile device.
45. The method of claim 27, in which the one or more images are sent to a server.
46. The method of claim 45, in which the server is associated with one or a combination of two or more of an automotive safety organization, an insurance company, a ridesharing company, an emergency service, a call center, a user of the telematics device, or a user of the vehicle.
47. The method of claim 27, in which the telematics device includes one or more sensors configured to produce telematics data at the vehicle.
48. The method of claim 47, in which the one or more sensors include one or a combination of two or more of an accelerometer, a magnetometer, a barometer, a speedometer, a gyroscope, a compass, a position sensor, an image sensor, and a microphone.
49. The method of claim 47, comprising: receiving the one or more images captured by the camera; detecting, based on the telematics data or the one or more images, or both, a personal safety concern for a person at the vehicle; and providing, based on the personal safety concern, one or more additional signals to cause the camera to record one or more additional images at the vehicle.
50. The method of claim 49, in which the personal safety concern is associated with one or more of a vehicle crash, an activation of a personal safety alert button, a distraction of the driver of the vehicle, an incapacity of the person at the vehicle, a relationship of a geographic location of the vehicle to a predetermined geographic boundary, a determination that the vehicle is at an intersection, a determination that the vehicle is in close proximity to another vehicle, a detection of an object in a path of the vehicle, a noise in the vehicle exceeding a predetermined noise threshold, a command voiced in the vehicle matching a predefined voice command, a physical altercation at the vehicle, an inertial event of the vehicle that exceeds a predetermined inertial magnitude, or a detection that the telematics device is tampered with.
51. The method of claim 49, in which the one or more additional images are captured at a different rate or resolution than the one or more images.
52. A personal safety system, comprising: a camera positioned within a vehicle; a processor; and storage for instructions executable by the processor to: detect a connection between the personal safety system and a mobile device at a vehicle; and in response to detecting the connection, provide one or more signals to cause the camera to capture one or more images at the vehicle.
53. An apparatus comprising a telematics device at a vehicle configured to: receive a connection from a mobile device, the telematics device including a camera positioned to capture one or more images at the vehicle; and in response to receiving the connection, provide one or more signals to cause the camera to capture one or more images at the vehicle.
54. A non-transitory storage medium storing instructions executable by a processor to: detect a connection between a mobile device and a telematics device at a vehicle, the telematics device including a camera positioned to capture one or more images at the vehicle; and in response to detecting the connection, provide one or more signals to cause the camera to capture one or more images at the vehicle.
55. A method, comprising: receiving telematics data produced by one or more sensors associated with a telematics device at a vehicle; detecting, based on the telematics data, that the vehicle is in use; and in response to detecting that the vehicle is in use, providing one or more signals to cause a camera positioned within the vehicle to capture one or more images at the vehicle.
56. The method of claim 55, in which detecting that the vehicle is in use comprises one or more of detecting that the vehicle is on, detecting that a user has entered the vehicle or is within a proximity of the vehicle, or detecting that the telematics device is in the vehicle or is within a proximity of the vehicle.
57. A personal safety system, comprising: a camera positioned within a vehicle; a processor; and storage for instructions executable by the processor to: receive telematics data produced by one or more sensors associated with a telematics device at the vehicle; detect, based on the telematics data, that the personal safety system is in use; and in response to detecting that the personal safety system is in use, provide one or more signals to cause the camera to capture one or more images at the vehicle.
58. The system of claim 57, in which detecting that the personal safety system is in use comprises one or more of detecting that the personal safety system is on, detecting that the telematics device has connected to the personal safety system, detecting that the vehicle is on, detecting that a user has entered the vehicle or is within a proximity of the vehicle, or detecting that the telematics device is in the vehicle or is within a proximity of the vehicle.
59. A method, comprising: receiving telematics data produced by one or more telematics devices at a vehicle; identifying, based on the telematics data, a personal safety trigger related to the vehicle or a user of the vehicle; and providing, in response to the personal safety trigger, one or more signals to cause one or a combination of two or more of the telematics devices to produce additional telematics data.
60. The method of claim 59, in which the telematics data is produced by one or more sensors associated with the one or more telematics devices.
61. The method of claim 60, in which the one or more sensors include one or a combination of two or more of an accelerometer, a magnetometer, a barometer, a speedometer, a gyroscope, a compass, a position sensor, an image sensor, and a microphone.
62. The method of claim 59, in which the one or more telematics devices include one or a combination of two or more of a tag device, a video tag device, and a mobile device.
63. The method of claim 59, in which one or a combination of two or more of the telematics devices includes a camera positioned within the vehicle.
64. The method of claim 63, in which the additional telematics data comprises one or more images captured by the camera in response to the one or more signals.
65. The method of claim 63, in which the camera is an inward-facing camera positioned to capture the one or more images of an interior of the vehicle.
66. The method of claim 65, in which the inward-facing camera is positioned to capture the one or more images of both a front seat and a rear seat of the vehicle.
67. The method of claim 63, in which the camera is an outward-facing camera positioned to capture the one or more images of an area exterior to the vehicle.
68. The method of claim 63, in which the telematics device is a mobile device, and in which the camera is a camera of the mobile device.
69. The method of claim 63, in which the camera is coupled with an actuator configured to move the camera in response to the one or more signals.
70. The method of claim 63, in which the camera is configured to zoom in or zoom out in response to the one or more signals.
71. The method of claim 63, in which the camera comprises an infrared (IR) camera.
72. The method of claim 71, in which the camera includes an IR illuminator configured to illuminate an area within the view of the camera.
73. The method of claim 63, in which the camera includes a wide-angle lens.
74. The method of claim 63, in which the camera is configured to be attached within the vehicle.
75. The method of claim 74, in which the camera includes a permanent adhesive or a semi-permanent adhesive for attachment within the vehicle.
76. The method of claim 64, in which the one or more images comprise a video.
77. The method of claim 64, in which the camera is configured to capture the one or more images at a rate indicated by the one or more signals.
78. The method of claim 64, in which the camera is configured to capture the one or more images at a resolution indicated by the one or more signals.
79. The method of claim 78, in which a first image of the one or more images is captured at a first resolution, and in which a second image of the one or more images is captured at a second resolution, the first resolution being different than the second resolution.
80. The method of claim 59, in which one or a combination of two or more of the telematics device includes a microphone at the vehicle.
81. The method of claim 80, in which the additional telematics data comprises audio data captured by the microphone in response to the one or more signals.
82. The method of claim 59, in which the personal safety trigger is associated with one or more of a vehicle crash, an activation of a personal safety alert button, a distraction of the driver of the vehicle, an incapacity of the person at the vehicle, a relationship of a geographic location of the vehicle to a predetermined geographic boundary, a determination that the vehicle is at an intersection, a determination that the vehicle is in close proximity to another vehicle, a detection of an object in a path of the vehicle, a noise in the vehicle exceeding a predetermined noise threshold, a command voiced in the vehicle matching a predefined voice command, a physical altercation at the vehicle, an inertial event of the vehicle that exceeds a predetermined inertial magnitude, or a detection that the telematics device is tampered with.
83. The method of claim 59, comprising sending one or more of the telematics data, the triggering event, or the additional telematics data to a server.
84. The method of claim 83, in which the server is associated with one or a combination of two or more of an automotive safety organization, an insurance company, a ridesharing company, an emergency service, a call center, a user of the telematics device, or a user of the vehicle.
85. The method of claim 59, in which the telematics data includes image data or audio data produced at the vehicle.
86. The method of claim 59, in which the additional telematics data is produced at a different rate or resolution than the telematics data.
87. The method of claim 86, in which the additional telematics data is produced at a higher rate than the telematics data.
88. The method of claim 59, comprising receiving the additional telematics data produced by one or a combination of two or more of the telematics device and verifying, based on the additional telematics data, the personal safety trigger to produce a verified personal safety trigger.
89. The method of claim 88, comprising providing, based on the verified personal safety trigger, one or more additional signals to cause one or a combination of two or more of the telematics device to adjust collection of future telematics data.
90. A personal safety system comprising: a camera in a vehicle; a processor; and storage for instructions executable by the processor to: receive telematics data produced by one or more sensors associated with a telematics device at the vehicle; identify, based on the telematics data, a personal safety trigger related to the vehicle or a user of the vehicle; and provide, in response to the personal safety trigger, one or more signals to cause the camera to capture one or more images at the vehicle.
91. The system of claim 90, in which the camera is an inward-facing camera positioned to capture the one or more images of an interior of the vehicle.
92. The system of claim 91, in which the inward-facing camera is positioned to capture the one or more images of both a front seat and a rear seat of the vehicle.
93. The system of claim 90, in which the camera is an outward-facing camera positioned to capture the one or more images of an area exterior to the vehicle.
94. The system of claim 90, in which the camera is included in the telematics device.
95. The system of claim 90, in which the camera is a mobile device camera.
96. The system of claim 90, in which the camera is coupled with an actuator configured to move the camera in response to the one or more signals.
97. The system of claim 90, in which the camera is configured to zoom in or zoom out in response to the one or more signals.
98. The system of claim 90, in which the camera comprises an infrared (IR) camera.
99. The system of claim 98, comprising an IR illuminator configured to illuminate an area within the view of the camera.
100. The system of claim 90, in which the camera includes a wide-angle lens.
101. The system of claim 90, in which the camera is configured to be attached within the vehicle.
102. The system of claim 101, in which the camera includes a permanent adhesive or a semi-permanent adhesive for attachment within the vehicle.
103. The system of claim 90, in which the one or more images comprise a video.
104. The system of claim 90, in which the camera is configured to capture the one or more images at a rate indicated by the one or more signals.
105. The system of claim 90, in which the camera is configured to capture the one or more images at a resolution indicated by the one or more signals.
106. The system of claim 105, in which a first image of the one or more images is captured at a first resolution, and in which a second image of the one or more images is captured at a second resolution, the first resolution being different than the second resolution.
107. The system of claim 90, in which the camera includes a microphone configured to record audio in response to the one or more signals.
108. The system of claim 90, in which the one or more sensors include one or a combination of two or more of an accelerometer, a magnetometer, a barometer, a speedometer, a gyroscope, a compass, a position sensor, an image sensor, and a microphone.
109. The method of claim 90, in which the personal safety trigger is associated with one or more of a vehicle crash, an activation of a personal safety alert button, a distraction of the driver of the vehicle, an incapacity of the user of the vehicle, a relationship of a geographic location of the vehicle to a predetermined geographic boundary, a determination that the vehicle is at an intersection, a determination that the vehicle is in close proximity to another vehicle, a detection of an object in a path of the vehicle, a noise in the vehicle exceeding a predetermined noise threshold, a command voiced in the vehicle matching a predefined voice command, a physical altercation at the vehicle, an inertial event of the vehicle that exceeds a predetermined inertial magnitude, or a detection that the telematics device is tampered with.
110. The system of claim 90, in which the telematics device comprises a tag device or a video tag device.
111. The system of claim 90, in which the telematics device comprises a mobile device.
112. The system of claim 90, comprising communications circuitry to communicate the one or more signals from the processor to the camera.
113. The system of claim 112, in which the communications circuitry comprises one or more of a Bluetooth communications circuit, a WiFi communications circuit, and a cellular communications circuit.
114. The system of claim 90, comprising communications circuitry to communicate one or more of the telematics data, the triggering event, the one or more signals, the one or more images, and audio recorded in response to the indication of the triggering event to a server.
115. The system of claim 114, in which the server is associated with one or a combination of two or more of an automotive safety organization, an insurance company, a ridesharing company, an emergency service, a call center, a user of the telematics device, or the occupant of the vehicle.
116. The system of claim 90, in which the telematics data includes image data or audio data produced at the vehicle.
117. The system of claim 116, in which the one or more images are captured at a different rate or resolution than the image data.
118. The system of claim 90, comprising instructions executable by the processor to: receive the one or more images captured by the camera; and verify, based on the one or more images, the personal safety trigger to produce a verified personal safety trigger.
119. The system of claim 118, comprising instructions executable by the processor to: provide, based on the verified personal safety trigger, one or more additional signals to cause the camera to record one or more additional images at the vehicle.
120. An apparatus comprising a telematics device at a vehicle configured to: receive telematics data produced by one or more sensors at a vehicle; identify, based on the telematics data, a personal safety trigger related to the vehicle or a user of the vehicle; and provide, in response to the personal safety trigger, one or more signals to cause one or a combination of two or more of the telematics devices to produce additional telematics data.
121. A non-transitory storage medium storing instructions executable by a processor to: receive telematics data produced by one or more telematics devices at a vehicle; identify, based on the telematics data, a personal safety trigger related to the vehicle or a user of the vehicle; and provide, in response to the personal safety trigger, one or more signals to cause one or a combination of two or more of the telematics devices to produce additional telematics data.
122. A method, comprising: receiving a request from a first user device to join a personal safety technology, the first user device associated with a driver of a vehicle; receiving a request from a second user device to join the personal safety technology, the second user device associated with a passenger of the vehicle; and providing each of the first user device and the second user device access to a telematics device within the vehicle, the telematics device configured to produce telematics data for both the driver and the passenger.
123. The method of claim 122, in which the first user device comprises a mobile device.
124. The method of claim 122, in which the telematics device comprises a tag device, a video tag device, or a mobile device.
125. The method of claim 122, in which the telematics device includes a camera positioned within the vehicle.
126. The method of claim 125, in which the telematics data comprises one or more images of both the driver and the passenger captured by the camera.
127. The method of claim 122, in which the telematics device includes a microphone.
128. The method of claim 127, in which the telematics data comprises audio from both the driver and the passenger captured by the microphone.
129. The method of claim 122, in which the telematics device is configured to provide the telematics data to each of the first user device and the second user device.
130. The method of claim 122, in which the telematics device is configured to provide the telematics data for both the driver and the passenger to a trusted third party.
131. The method of claim 130, in which the trusted third party comprises one or a combination of two or more of an automotive safety organization, an insurance company, a ridesharing company, an emergency service, or a call center.
132. The method of claim 122, in which the telematics device is configured to receive a personal safety alert from the first mobile device and the second mobile device.
133. The method of claim 122, in which the telematics device is configured to detect a personal safety concern for the driver or the passenger by detecting a noise from the driver or the passenger that exceeds a predetermined noise threshold.
134. The method of claim 122, in which the telematics device is configured to detect a personal safety concern for the driver or the passenger by detecting a command voiced by the driver or the passenger that matches a predefined voice command.
135. The method of claim 122, in which the telematics device is tamper resistant.
136. The method of claim 122, in which the telematics device is configured to generate an alert to one or more of the first user device, the second user device, and a trusted third party in response to a tampering attempt.
137. The method of claim 122, in which the telematics device is battery powered.
138. An apparatus comprising a telematics device at a vehicle configured to: receive a request from a first user device to join a personal safety technology, the first user device associated with a driver of a vehicle; receive a request from a second user device to join the personal safety technology, the second user device associated with a passenger of the vehicle; and provide each of the first user device and the second user device access to the telematics device at the vehicle, the telematics device configured to produce telematics data for both the driver and the passenger.
139. A non-transitory storage medium storing instructions executable by a processor to: receive a request from a first user device to join a personal safety technology, the first user device associated with a driver of a vehicle; receive a request from a second user device to join the personal safety technology, the second user device associated with a passenger of the vehicle; and provide each of the first user device and the second user device access to a telematics device within the vehicle, the telematics device configured to produce telematics data for both the driver and the passenger.
140. A method, comprising: receiving data associated with a telematics device located at a vehicle, the telematics device being part of a personal safety technology; determining, based on the data, a status of the personal safety technology; and generating, based on the status, an alert to a user of the personal safety technology, the alert including an indication of the status of the personal safety technology.
141. The method of claim 140, in which determining the status of the personal safety technology comprises determining, based on the data, whether the telematics device is powered on.
142. The method of claim 140, in which determining the status of the personal safety technology comprises determining, based on the data, whether the telematics device is connected to the personal safety technology.
143. The method of claim 140, in which receiving the data associated with the telematics device comprises receiving a battery level of the telematics device.
144. The method of claim 143, in which determining the status of the personal safety technology comprises comparing the battery level of the telematics device with a threshold battery level and determining, based on the comparison, the status of the personal safety technology, in which the status is deemed to be unsafe in response to determining that the battery level of the telematics device is below the threshold battery level.
145. The method of claim 140, in which receiving the data associated with the telematics device comprises receiving a unique identifier associated with the telematics device.
146. The method of claim 145, in which determining the status of the personal safety technology comprises connecting the telematics device to the personal safety technology using the unique identifier, in which status is deemed to be unsafe in response to a failed connection using the unique identifier.
147. The method of claim 140, in which receiving the data associated with the telematics device comprises receiving one or more images of an interior of the vehicle captured by the telematics device.
148. The method of claim 147, in which the one or more images are included in the alert to the user.
149. The method of claim 147, in which generating the alert comprises determining that the user has entered the vehicle, causing the telematics device to capture the one or more images of the interior of the vehicle, in which the user is pictured in the one or more images, and providing the one or more images in the alert to the user.
150. The method of claim 140, in which the telematics device comprises a tag device at the vehicle.
151. The method of claim 140, in which the telematics device comprises a mobile device.
152. The method of claim 140, in which the alert is transmitted to a mobile device of the user.
153. The method of claim 152, in which the alert causes the mobile device to display a user interface including the indication of the status of the personal safety technology.
154. The method of claim 140, in which the alert comprises a recommendation to the user.
155. The method of claim 154, in which the user is a driver of the vehicle, and the recommendation comprises a notification to not accept a passenger into the vehicle.
156. The method of claim 155, in which the user is a passenger of the vehicle, and the recommendation comprises a notification to not enter the vehicle.
157. The method of claim 140, in which the alert comprises an audible indication of the status of the personal safety technology.
158. The method of claim 157, in which the audible indication is configurable by the user.
159. The method of claim 140, in which the alert comprises a visual indication of the status of the personal safety technology.
160. The method of claim 159, in which the visual indication comprises an image of the vehicle, a driver of the vehicle, or a passenger of the vehicle.
161. An apparatus comprising a telematics device at a vehicle configured to: determine, based on data associated with the telematics device, a status of personal safety technology, the telematics device being part of the personal safety technology; and generate, based on the status, an alert to a user of the personal safety technology, the alert including an indication of the status of the personal safety technology.
162. A non-transitory storage medium storing instructions executable by a processor to: receive data associated with a telematics device located at a vehicle, the telematics device being part of a personal safety technology; determine, based on the data, a status of the personal safety technology; and generate, based on the status, an alert to a user of the personal safety technology, the alert including an indication of the status of the personal safety technology.
163. A method, comprising: receiving telematics data produced by one or more sensors associated with a telematics device, the telematics data including audio data or video data captured at a vehicle; and providing the telematics data to a mobile device associated with a user of the vehicle over a first network, and the telematics data to a server over a second network.
164. The method of claim 163, in which the first network and the second network comprise different network types.
165. The method of claim 163, in which the first network comprises a Bluetooth network or a WiFi network.
166. The method of claim 163, in which the second network comprises a cellular network or a WiFi network.
167. The method of claim 163, in which the server is associated with one or a combination of two or more of an automotive safety organization, an insurance company, a ridesharing company, an emergency service, a call center, a user of the telematics device, or a user of the vehicle.
168. The method of claim 163, in which the user of the vehicle comprises a driver of the vehicle or a passenger of the vehicle.
169. The method of claim 163, in which the video data comprises video data of an interior of the vehicle or video data of an area exterior to the vehicle, or both.
170. The method of claim 163, in which the telematics device comprises a tag device or a video tag device.
171. The method of claim 163, in which the telematics device is configured to provide the telematics data to the mobile device in real time.
172. The method of claim 163, in which the telematics device is configured to capture the telematics data for a predetermined period of time before providing the telematics data to the mobile device.
173. The method of claim 163, in which the telematics device is configured to automatically provide the telematics data to the mobile device in response to detecting the presence of the mobile device on the first network.
174. The method of claim 163, comprising causing the telematics data to be stored persistently.
175. The method of claim 163, in which the mobile device is configured to provide the telematics data to the server in response to detecting a predetermined network type.
176. The method of claim 163, in which the server is configured to provide a user interface to present the telematics data to the user of the vehicle.
177. The method of claim 163, in which the server is configured to analyze the video data or the audio data, or both, to determine the driving behavior of a driver of the vehicle.
178. The method of claim 177, in which the server is configured to provide an indication of the driving behavior to the driver through a user interface.
179. The method of claim 163, in which the server is configured to analyze the video data or the audio data, or both, to determine whether a driver or a passenger of the vehicle is incapacitated.
180. The method of claim 163, in which the server is configured to analyze the video data or the audio data, or both, to identify a vehicle crash.
181. The method of claim 163, in which the server is configured to provide the telematics data to a call center.
182. An apparatus comprising a telematics device at a vehicle configured to: receive telematics data produced by one or more sensors associated with the telematics device, the telematics data including audio data or video data captured at a vehicle; and provide the telematics data to a mobile device associated with a user of the vehicle over a first network, and the telematics data to a server over a second network.
183. A non-transitory storage medium storing instructions executable by a processor to: receive telematics data produced by one or more sensors associated with a telematics device, the telematics data including audio data or video data captured at a vehicle; and provide the telematics data to a mobile device associated with a user of the vehicle over a first network, and the telematics data to a server over a second network.
</claims>
</document>
