<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G06N3/08,G06T3/40,G06T5/50,G06T7/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLIED MATERIALS
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARDY, CHARLES
KUMAR, ABHINAV
SCHWARZ, BENJAMIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71731488
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED IMAGE MEASUREMENT FOR PROCESS DEVELOPMENT AND OPTIMIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and non-transitory computer readable medium are described for automated image measurement for process development and optimization. A method includes receiving original images including a first original image. Each original image is of a corresponding product associated with a manufacturing process. The method further includes performing, based on process information about the manufacturing process, feature extraction to identify features of the first original image that are expected to change based on manufacturing parameters of the manufacturing process. The method further includes generating a first synthetic image of synthetic images by performing targeted deformation of one or more of the features of the first original image. The method further includes using the original images and the synthetic images to train a machine learning model to automatically determine an image processing algorithm to use for measuring one or more attributes of images of product associated with the manufacturing process.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising receiving a plurality of original images comprising a first original image, wherein each original image of the plurality of original images is of a corresponding product associated with a manufacturing process; performing, based on process information about the manufacturing process, feature extraction to identify a plurality of features of the first original image that are expected to change based on manufacturing parameters of the manufacturing process; generating a first synthetic image of a plurality of synthetic images by performing targeted deformation of one or more of the plurality of features of the first original image, wherein the targeted deformation adjusts one or more features of the plurality of features; and using the plurality of original images and the plurality of synthetic images to train a machine learning model to automatically determine an image processing algorithm to use for measuring one or more attributes of images of product associated with the manufacturing process.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: determining a stopping criteria for the targeted deformation based on a critical dimension of the product; and performing the targeted deformation by iteratively moving one or more points on a feature of the plurality of features until a threshold number of iterations have completed or the stopping criteria is reached.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein targeted deformation is in a designated direction of movement.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first synthetic image is further generated based on a deformation field that is randomly initialized, the method further comprising: comparing the first synthetic image to a second original image of the plurality of original images to determine differences; updating the deformation field based on the differences to generate an updated deformation field; and generating a second synthetic image by adjusting the first original image based on the updated deformation field.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the deformation field comprises a plurality of pixel value adjustments that have a weighted probability based on process information.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first synthetic image is further generated by performing a global deformation of the first original image.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the global deformation comprises one or more of flipping, shifting, rotating, or zooming the first original image.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that the plurality of original images are insufficient to train the machine learning model; and generating the plurality of synthetic images responsive to determining that the plurality of original images are insufficient to train the machine learning model, wherein the plurality of original images and the plurality of synthetic images in combination are sufficient to train the machine learning model.
9. A system comprising: a memory; and a processing device, coupled to the memory, to: receive a plurality of original images comprising a first original image, wherein each original image of the plurality of original images is of a corresponding product associated with a manufacturing process; perform, based on process information about the manufacturing process, feature extraction to identify a plurality of features of the first original image that are expected to change based on manufacturing parameters of the manufacturing process; generate a first synthetic image of a plurality of synthetic images by performing targeted deformation of one or more of the plurality of features of the first original image, wherein the targeted deformation adjusts one or more features of the plurality of features; and use the plurality of original images and the plurality of synthetic images to train a machine learning model to automatically determine an image processing algorithm to use for measuring one or more attributes of images of product associated with the manufacturing process.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the processing device is further to: determine a stopping criteria for the targeted deformation based on a critical dimension of the product; and perform the targeted deformation by iteratively moving one or more points on a feature of the plurality of features until a threshold number of iterations have completed or the stopping criteria is reached, wherein targeted deformation is in a designated direction of movement.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the first synthetic image is further generated based on a deformation field that is randomly initialized, wherein the processing device is further to: compare the first synthetic image to a second original image of the plurality of original images to determine differences; update the deformation field based on the differences to generate an updated deformation field; and generate a second synthetic image by adjusting the first original image based on the updated deformation field.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the deformation field comprises a plurality of pixel value adjustments that have a weighted probability based on process information.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the first synthetic image is further generated by performing a global deformation of the first original image, wherein the global deformation comprises one or more of flipping, shifting, rotating, or zooming the first original image.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the processing device is further to: determine that the plurality of original images are insufficient to train the machine learning model; and generate the plurality of synthetic images responsive to determining that the plurality of original images are insufficient to train the machine learning model, wherein the plurality of original images and the plurality of synthetic images in combination are sufficient to train the machine learning model.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon, which, when executed by a processing device, cause the processing device to: receive a plurality of original images comprising a first original image, wherein each original image of the plurality of original images is of a corresponding product associated with a manufacturing process; perform, based on process information about the manufacturing process, feature extraction to identify a plurality of features of the first original image that are expected to change based on manufacturing parameters of the manufacturing process; generate a first synthetic image of a plurality of synthetic images by performing targeted deformation of one or more of the plurality of features of the first original image, wherein the targeted deformation adjusts one or more features of the plurality of features; and use the plurality of original images and the plurality of synthetic images to train a machine learning model to automatically determine an image processing algorithm to use for measuring one or more attributes of images of product associated with the manufacturing process.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the processing device is further to: determine a stopping criteria for the targeted deformation based on a critical dimension of the product; and perform the targeted deformation by iteratively moving one or more points on a feature of the plurality of features until a threshold number of iterations have completed or the stopping criteria is reached, wherein targeted deformation is in a designated direction of movement.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first synthetic image is further generated based on a deformation field that is randomly initialized, wherein the processing device is further to: compare the first synthetic image to a second original image of the plurality of original images to determine differences; update the deformation field based on the differences to generate an updated deformation field; and generate a second synthetic image by adjusting the first original image based on the updated deformation field.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the deformation field comprises a plurality of pixel value adjustments that have a weighted probability based on process information.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first synthetic image is further generated by performing a global deformation of the first original image, wherein the global deformation comprises one or more of flipping, shifting, rotating, or zooming the first original image.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the processing device is further to: determine that the plurality of original images are insufficient to train the machine learning model; and generate the plurality of synthetic images responsive to determining that the plurality of original images are insufficient to train the machine learning model, wherein the plurality of original images and the plurality of synthetic images in combination are sufficient to train the machine learning model.
</claims>
</document>
