<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04M3/428,H04M3/523,H04N21/25
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BENKREIRA, ABDELKADAR M'HAMED
COLEVAS, ALEXANDRA
EDWARDS, JOSHUA
MOSSOBA, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67908973
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IDENTIFYING A MEDIA ITEM TO PRESENT TO A USER DEVICE VIA A COMMUNICATION SESSION
</title>

<abstract>
A device communicates with a user device via a communication session, determines user information relating to the user device or a user of the user device, and determines that the user device is placed on a hold status. The device determines, using a machine learning model, a type of media item to be presented to the user device, where the machine learning model has been trained to identify types of media items to present to user devices when the user devices are placed in the hold status, and selects a media item corresponding to the type of media item. The device presents the media item to the user device via the communication session, determines that the user device is no longer placed on the hold status, and causes the media item to cease being presented.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: obtaining, by a device, user information relating to a user device or a user of the user device, the user device being in a communication session with another device; determining, by the device and after determining the user information, that the user device is placed on a hold status; determining, by the device and based on the user information, a set of media items to be presented to the user device; and providing, by the device, information related to the set of media items to the user device via the communication session.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the user information comprises one or more of: a name of the user, a username associated with the user, an account associate with the user, an identification string of the user, a media preference of the user, demographic information concerning the user, or information concerning one or more reasons for a communication request.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the user information comprises: obtaining the user information based on establishing the communication session with the user device.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the information related to the set of media items comprises: a message identifying one or more media items of the set of media items for the user to select.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining a response regarding the information related to the set of media items; and performing an action regarding the set of media items based on the response regarding the information related to the set of media items.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a period of hold time associated with the hold status; and determining the set of media items based on a respective run-time of one or more items of the set of media items that have a run-time that correlates with the hold time.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, based on the user information, one or more of: a media preference, a media type preference, a media genre preference, or a media item preference; and wherein determining the set of media items comprises: determining the set of media items based on the one or more of the media preference, the media type preference, the media genre preference, or the media item preference.
8. A device, comprising: one or more memories; and one or more processors communicatively coupled to the one or more memories, configured to: obtain user information relating to a user device or a user of the user device, the user device being in a communication session with another device; determine, after determining the user information, that the user device is placed on a hold status; determine, based on the user information, a set of media items to be presented to the user device; and provide information related to the set of media items to the user device via the communication session.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the user information comprises one or more of: a name of the user, a username associated with the user, an account associate with the user, an identification string of the user, a media preference of the user, demographic information concerning the user, or information concerning one or more reasons for a communication request.
10. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors, when obtaining the user information, are configured to: obtain the user information based on establishing the communication session with the user device.
11. The device of claim 8, wherein the information related to the set of media items comprises: a message identifying one or more media items of the set of media items for the user to select.
12. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: obtain a response regarding the information related to the set of media items; and perform an action regarding the set of media items based on the response regarding the information related to the set of media items.
13. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine a period of hold time associated with the hold status; and determine the set of media items based on a respective run-time of one or more items of the set of media items that have a run-time that correlates with the hold time.
14. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine, based on the user information, one or more of: a media preference, a media type preference, a media genre preference, or a media item preference; and wherein the one or more processors, when determining the set of media items, are configured to: determine the set of media items based on the one or more of the media preference, the media type preference, the media genre preference, or the media item preference.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions comprising: one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: obtain user information relating to a user device or a user of the user device, the user device being in a communication session with another device; determine, after determining the user information, that the user device is placed on a hold status; determine, based on the user information, a set of media items to be presented to the user device; and provide information related to the set of media items to the user device via the communication session.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the user information comprises one or more of: a name of the user, a username associated with the user, an account associate with the user, an identification string of the user, a media preference of the user, demographic information concerning the user, or information concerning one or more reasons for a communication request.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to obtain the user information, cause the one or more processors to: obtain the user information based on establishing the communication session with the user device.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the information related to the set of media items comprises: a message identifying one or more media items of the set of media items for the user to select.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: obtain a response regarding the information related to the set of media items; and perform an action regarding the set of media items based on the response regarding the information related to the set of media items.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: determine a period of hold time associated with the hold status; and determine the set of media items based on a respective run-time of one or more items of the set of media items that have a run-time that correlates with the hold time.
</claims>
</document>
