<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N99/00,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HPE (HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE)
</assignee>

<inventors>
JANAKIRAMAN, RAMSUNDAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70326157
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Behavioral profiling of service access using intent to access in discovery protocols
</title>

<abstract>
A method including correlating a network address of a user to a domain name in a domain name system of a computing network, based on a service log, is provided. The method includes identifying a user group, generating a watch list of servers that control access to a new resource, and establishing a baseline behaviour for a client device based on a first access and a last access to one server in the watch list of servers during a time to live period. The method also includes adding the true network address and a correlated domain name to the baseline behaviour, retrieving a timestamp of an access by the client device to the network address, and flagging, as a violation, the access by the client device to the network address when the access is outside of a legitimate window around the baseline behaviour.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: correlating a network address of a user to a domain name in a domain name system of a computing network, based at least in part on a service log; identifying a user group based at least in part on the domain name; generating a watch list of servers from the user group that control access to a new resource from the user, based at least in part on the domain name; establishing a baseline behaviour for a client device based at least in part on a first access and a last access to at least one server in the watch list of servers during a time to live period associated with the user group; when the service log includes a true network address, adding the true network address and a correlated domain name to the baseline behaviour; retrieving a timestamp of an access by the client device to the network address; and flagging, as a violation, the access by the client device to the network address in response to the access being outside of a legitimate window around the baseline behaviour.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein correlating a network address of a user to a domain name in a domain name system of a computer network comprises applying a machine learning algorithm to the service log to compare a sequence of text characters in the domain name to a sequence of digits in the network address.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising updating the user group based on a request-response packet captured by a packet processor at a tap point in the computer network.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising updating the watch list of servers by removing a domain name that is unresolved after a last access to at least one server in the computer network.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising filtering the watch list of servers to form a historical baseline of resources accessed by a user.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein establishing a baseline behaviour for the client device comprises establishing a window of the baseline behaviour based on a maximum and a minimum behaviour tolerance in the service log.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the time to live period associated with the user group is the time to live period for a most recent domain name resolution associated with the user group, and establishing a baseline behaviour comprises selecting the last access as the time to live period.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein establishing a baseline behaviour for the client device comprises updating the baseline behaviour.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein retrieving a timestamp of an access by the client device to the network address comprises inspecting a domain name system transaction to identify an entity accessing the new resource and a time of access.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein retrieving a timestamp of an access by the client device to the network address comprises identifying a time of access deviation from a timestamp of a network transaction to resolve the server by a user, based on a baseline for the user.
11. A system, comprising: a memory storing instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to cause the system to: correlate a network address of a user to a domain name in a domain name system of a computing network, based at least in part on a service log; identify a user group based at least in part on the domain name; generate a watch list of servers from the user group that control access to a new resource from the user, based at least in part on the domain name; establish a baseline behaviour for a client device based at least in part on a first access and a last access to at least one server in the watch list of servers during a time to live period associated with the user group; when the service log includes a true network address, add the true network address and a correlated domain name to the baseline behaviour; retrieve a timestamp of an access by the client device to the network address; and flag, as a violation, the access by the client device to the network address in response to the access being outside of a legitimate window around the baseline behaviour.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein to correlate a network address of a user to a domain name in a domain name system of a computer network the one or more processors are configured to apply a machine learning algorithm to the service log to compare a sequence of text characters in the domain name to a sequence of digits in the network address.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to update the user group based on a request-response packet captured by a packet processor at a tap point in the computer network.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein to establish a baseline behaviour for the client device the one or more processors are configured to establish a window of the baseline behaviour based on a maximum and a minimum behaviour tolerance in the service log.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein to establish a baseline behaviour for the client device the one or more processors are configured to update the baseline behaviour.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein to retrieve a timestamp of an access by the client device to the network address comprises identifying a time of access deviation from a timestamp of a network transaction to resolve the server by a user, based on a baseline for the user.
17. A non-transitory, computer readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause a computer to perform a method, the method comprising: correlating a network address of a user to a domain name in a domain name system of a computing network, based at least in part on a service log; identifying a user group based at least in part on the domain name; generating a watch list of servers from the user group that control access to a new resource from the user, based at least in part on the domain name; establishing a baseline behaviour for a client device based at least in part on a first access and a last access to at least one server in the watch list of servers during a time to live period associated with the user group; when the service log includes a true network address, adding the true network address and a correlated domain name to the baseline behaviour; retrieving a timestamp of an access by the client device to the network address; and flagging, as a violation, the access by the client device to the network address in response to the access being outside of a legitimate window around the baseline behaviour.
18. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein, in the method, correlating a network address of a user to a domain name in a domain name system of a computer network comprises applying a machine learning algorithm to the service log to compare a sequence of text characters in the domain name to a sequence of digits in the network address.
19. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the method further comprises updating the user group based on a request-response packet captured by a packet processor at a tap point in the computer network.
20. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein, in the method, establishing a baseline behaviour for the client device comprises establishing a window of the baseline behaviour based on a maximum and a minimum behaviour tolerance in the service log.
</claims>
</document>
