<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K7/10,G06T7/521,G06T7/62,H04M1/02,H04M1/725
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Advanced Solutions Innovation Labs, LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
Johnson, Jeremy
Eli, Rob
Schultz, Alex
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72515218
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTOMATED PRODUCT MEASUREMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems including a measurement device and a smart mobile device including a camera, a processor, a memory communicatively coupled to the processor, and machine readable instructions stored in the memory that may cause a system to perform at least the following when executed by the processor: use the camera of the smart mobile device to capture an image of a remote product; apply a sizing algorithm to the image of the remote product to generate a relative product size; generate a relative distance to the remote product through the measurement device; and apply triangulation and linear regression algorithms to generate an automated actual product measurement of the remote product based on the relative product size and the relative distance.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for automated product measurement, the system comprising: a measurement device; a smart mobile device including a camera and an application tool; a processor; a memory communicatively coupled to the processor; and machine readable instructions stored in the memory to cause the system to perform at least the following when executed by the processor: use the camera of the smart mobile device to capture an image of a remote product; apply a sizing algorithm to the image of the remote product via the application tool to generate a relative product size; generate a relative distance to the remote product through the measurement device; and apply triangulation and linear regression algorithms via the application tool to generate an automated actual product measurement of the remote product based on the relative product size and the relative distance.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device comprises a chipset system configured to generate the relative distance.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the chipset system comprises at least one distance sensor, a wireless module, a laser, and a microcontroller.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the at least one distance sensor comprises one or more lidar sensors, a laser rangefinder, or combinations thereof.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device comprises a camera aperture configured to align with the camera of the smart mobile device.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device comprises at least one slot aperture configured to transmit a laser projection ray, receive a reflected laser projection ray, or combinations thereof.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the at least one slot aperture comprises a slot aperture configured to both transmit the laser projection ray and receive the reflected laser projection ray.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the at least one slot aperture comprises a laser slot aperture configured to transmit the laser projection ray and one or more distance sensor slot apertures configured to receive the reflected laser projection ray.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device comprises a sidewall enclosure and a receiving surface, the receiving surface and the sidewall enclosure configured to receive the smart mobile device.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is configured to couple to the smart mobile device via an attachment mechanism.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the attachment mechanism is a magnet.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the smart mobile device comprises a smartphone or a smart tablet.
13. A method for automated product measurement, the method comprising: using a camera of a smart mobile device to capture an image of a remote product, the smart mobile device including an application tool; applying a sizing algorithm to the image of the remote product via the application tool to generate a relative product size; generating a relative distance to the remote product through a measurement device; and applying triangulation and linear regression algorithms via the application tool to generate an automated actual product measurement of the remote product based on the relative product size and the relative distance.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the measurement device comprises a chipset system configured to generate the relative distance, the chipset system comprising one or more lidar sensors, a laser rangefinder, a wireless module, a laser, and a microcontroller.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the measurement device comprises a slot aperture configured to transmit a laser projection ray from the laser, one or more slot apertures configured to receive a reflected laser projection ray to send to the one or more lidar sensors, and a slot aperture configured to receive the reflected laser projection ray to send to the laser rangefinder.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the measurement device comprises at least one slot aperture configured to transmit a laser projection ray from a laser, receive a reflected laser projection ray to send to one or more distance sensors, or combinations thereof.
17. An application tool of a smart mobile device for automated product measurement, the application tool comprising: a processor; a memory communicatively coupled to the processor; and machine readable instructions stored in the memory to cause the application tool to perform at least the following when executed by the processor: receive an image of a remote product; apply a sizing algorithm to the image of the remote product to generate a relative product size; receive a relative distance to the remote product from a measurement device communicatively coupled to the application tool; and apply triangulation and linear regression algorithms to generate an automated actual product measurement of the remote product based on the relative product size and the relative distance.
18. The application tool of claim 17, wherein the image is captured with the remote product disposed against a background surface, and the machine readable instructions further cause the application tool to perform at least the following when executed by the processor: generate a digital boundary box in the image as a minimum sized rectangle about the remote product disposed on the background surface in the image; and calculate a pixel per inch ratio based on the digital boundary box; and generate the automated actual product measurement of the remote product based on the pixel per inch ratio.
19. The application tool of claim 18, wherein the automated actual product measurement comprises a length dimension, a width dimension, a depth dimensions, or combinations thereof for the remote product.
20. The application tool of claim 17, wherein the image is captured by a camera of the smart mobile device, and the machine readable instructions further cause the application tool to perform at least the following when executed by the processor: receive weight information of the remote product from a wireless scale communicatively coupled to the application tool.
</claims>
</document>
