<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06N20/10,G06N3/08,G10L15/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NXP SEMICONDUCTORS
EINDHOVEN UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PINEDA DE GYVEZ, JOSE DE JESUS
IBRAHIM, EMAD AYMAN TALEB
FATEMI, HAMED
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63787669
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS FOR PROCESSING A SIGNAL
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus for processing a signal for input to a neural network, the apparatus configured to: receive a signal comprising a plurality of samples of an analog signal over time; determine at least one frame comprising a group of consecutive samples of the signal, wherein the or each frame includes a first number of samples; for each frame, determine a set of correlation values comprising a second number of correlation values, the second number less than the first number, each correlation value of the set of correlation values based on an autocorrelation of the frame at a plurality of different time lags; provide an output based on the set of correlation values corresponding to the or each of the frames for a neural network for one or more of classification of the analog signal by the neural network and training the neural network based on a predetermined classification.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for processing a signal for input to a neural network, the apparatus comprising: an input configured to receive a signal comprising a plurality of samples of an analog signal over time; and a processor coupled to the input and configured to: determine at least one frame comprising a group of consecutive samples of the signal, wherein the or each frame includes a first number of samples, for each frame, determine a set of correlation values comprising a second number of correlation values, the second number less than the first number, each correlation value of the set of correlation values based on an autocorrelation of the frame at a plurality of different time lags, and provide an output based on the set of correlation values corresponding to the or each of the frames for a neural network for one or more of classification of the analog signal by the neural network and training the neural network based on a predetermined classification.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein for each frame, the processor is configured to normalize each of the correlation values of the set of correlation values based on an autocorrelation of the frame at a zero time lag.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine a plurality of frames, each frame comprising a group of consecutive samples of the signal wherein one of: at least some of the consecutive frames comprise groups of consecutive samples that have a partial overlap with each other; and at least some of the consecutive frames comprise consecutive groups of consecutive samples that are non-overlapping.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a maximum time lag of the plurality of different time lags is based on a sampling frequency used to obtain the plurality of samples of the analog signal.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine a plurality of frames and determine one or more further correlation values based on a cross-correlation between frames of the plurality of frames, the output including said further correlation values and the sets of correlation values.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate an image, comprising a plurality of pixels, based on the one or more sets of correlation values, wherein the correlation values determine one or more of a pixel colour and pixel brightness and a pixel position in the image is based on a position of the correlation value in the set of correlation values and a position of the set in the plurality of sets; and wherein said output, provided for the neural network, comprises said image.
7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said one or more sets of correlation values comprise time-domain correlation values.
8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the processor is configured to determine a plurality of frames and the processor is configured to represent the set of correlation values of each frame as a column vector wherein the set of correlation values have a predetermined order in the column vector and wherein the processor is configured to generate a correlation value matrix having columns formed of the column vectors, and wherein the column vectors of correlation values are arranged in an order corresponding to a time order of the frames used to generate the sets, in terms of the samples the frames contain.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to generate an image from said correlation value matrix.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of: the apparatus comprises a speech processing apparatus and the signal comprises a signal representative of speech; and the apparatus comprises a gesture processing apparatus and the signal comprises a signal representative of movement of at least part of a body of a user.
11. A neural network processing device comprising the processor of claim 1 and a neural network configured to receive, as input, the output of the processor.
12. The neural network processing device of claim 11, wherein the neural network comprises a convolutional neural network and the output of the processor comprises an image, comprising a plurality of pixels, based on the one or more sets of correlation values, wherein the correlation values determine one or more of a pixel colour and pixel brightness and a pixel position in the image is based on a position of the correlation value in the set of correlation values and a position of the set in the plurality of sets when the sets are arranged in an order corresponding to a time order of the frames used to generate the sets, in terms of the samples the frames contain.
13. The neural network processing device of claim 11, wherein the neural network comprises a neural network having less than four layers.
14. A method for processing a signal for input to a neural network, the method comprising: receiving a signal comprising a plurality of samples of an analog signal over time; determining at least one frame comprising a group of consecutive samples of the signal, wherein the or each frame includes a first number of samples; for each frame, determining a set of correlation values comprising a second number of correlation values, the second number less than the first number, each correlation value of the set of correlation values based on an autocorrelation of the frame at a plurality of different time lags; and providing an output based on the set of correlation values corresponding to the or each of the frames for a neural network for one or more of classification of the analog signal by the neural network and training the neural network based on a predetermined classification.
15. A computer program or computer readable medium comprising computer program code configured to, when executed on a processor having said computer program code stored in a memory associated with the processor provides for the performance of the method of claim 14.
</claims>
</document>
