<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/86,G01S7/41,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FORTEM TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ARGYLE, MATTHEW ELLIOTT
DAVIS, BRYAN ALAN
MACKIE, JAMES DAVID
OLDROYD, MITCHELL KAY
PREECE, DAVID
ROBERTSON, ADAM EUGENE
THIMM, DAVID
VALIMAKI, MIKKO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69946957
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DRONE AND OBJECT CLASSIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system device provides a unique object identification process by obtaining information from one or more of radar signals, infrared signals, optical signals, audio signals, and other signals. The method includes continuously receiving object data at the device, applying by a machine learning system, a set of parameters to process the object identification and confidence level, and outputting or updating the object identification, confidence level, and actionable recommendations. The radar data includes a Doppler signature having a wrapped signal due to a sampling rate of the radar system. The Doppler signature is used to train the machine learning system to identify drone types.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: transmitting, from a device, a radar signal to an object, wherein the object comprises at least one rotary blade; receiving, at the device, a reflected signal from the object, the reflected signal comprising a doppler signature caused by movement of the at least one rotary blade; and classifying the object by applying a machine learning algorithm to the reflected signal to yield a classification, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained utilizing a respective doppler signature for each of a plurality of objects, each respective object of the plurality of objects having a respective rotary blade.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the radar signal comprises frequencies between 30 MHz and 300 GHz.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving at the device an infrared signal associated with the object; and classifying the object by applying the machine learning algorithm to the reflected radar signal and the infrared signal to yield the classification, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained utilizing labeled infrared signals.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving at the device an audio signal associated with the object; and classifying the object by applying the machine learning algorithm to the reflected radar signal and the audio signal to yield the classification, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained utilizing labeled audio signals.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving at the device an optical signal associated with the object; and classifying the object by applying the machine learning algorithm to the reflected radar signal and the optical signal to yield the classification, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained utilizing labeled optical signals.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving at the device an audio signal associated with the object; receiving at the device an infrared signal associated with the object; receiving at the device an optical signal associated with the object; and classifying the object by applying the machine learning algorithm to the reflected radar signal, the infrared signal, the audio signal and the optical signal to yield the classification, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained utilizing labeled audio signals, labeled infrared signals and labeled optical signals.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the machine learning algorithm, a moving pattern associated with the object based on one or more of the reflected radar signal, an audio signal associated with the object, an infrared signal associated with the object and an optical signal associated with the object; and classifying the object by applying the machine learning algorithm to the moving pattern to yield the classification, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained utilizing labeled moving patterns.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the moving pattern comprises one of patterns of flying object or patterns of movement of ground-based objects.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the moving pattern is based at least in part on moving patterns associated with a group of objects.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the machine learning algorithm, a payload being carried by the object based on one or more of the reflected radar signal, an audio signal associated with the object, an infrared signal associated with the object and an optical signal associated with the object to yield a payload classification, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained utilizing labeled payloads.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting an instruction, based on the classification, to an aerial vehicle scheduling and routing module.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: deploying, based on the classification, an aerial vehicle to engage with the object.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the object comprises one of a ground-based object or a flying object.
14. A system comprising: a processor; and a computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: transmitting a radar signal from a device to an object; receiving at the device a reflected signal from the object, the reflected signal comprising a Doppler signature associated with the object; and classifying the object by applying a machine learning algorithm to the reflected signal to yield a classification, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained utilizing labeled reflected radar signals.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the computer-readable storage medium stores additional instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations further comprising: receiving at the device an infrared signal associated with the object; and classifying the object by applying the machine learning algorithm to the reflected signal and the infrared signal to yield the classification, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained utilizing labeled infrared signals.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the computer-readable storage medium stores additional instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations further comprising: receiving at the device an audio signal associated with the object; and classifying the object by applying the machine learning algorithm to the reflected radar signal and the audio signal to yield the classification, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained utilizing labeled audio signals.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the computer-readable storage medium stores additional instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations further comprising: receiving at the device an optical signal associated with the object; and classifying the object by applying the machine learning algorithm to the reflected radar signal and the optical signal to yield the classification, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained utilizing labeled optical signals.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the computer-readable storage medium stores additional instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations further comprising: receiving at the device an audio signal associated with the object; receiving at the device an infrared signal associated with the object; receiving at the device an optical signal associated with the object; and classifying the object by applying the machine learning algorithm to the reflected radar signal, the audio signal, the infrared signal and the optical signal to yield the classification, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained utilizing labeled radar signals, labeled audio signals, labeled infrared signals and labeled optical signals.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein the computer-readable storage medium stores additional instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations further comprising: determining, by the machine learning algorithm, a moving pattern associated with the object based on one or more of the reflected radar signal associated with the object, an audio signal associated with the object, an infrared signal associated with the object and an optical signal associated with the object; and classifying the object by applying the machine learning algorithm to the moving pattern to yield the classification, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained utilizing labeled moving patterns.
20. A system comprising: a radar component that transmits a radar signal and receives a reflected radar signal from an object, the reflected signal comprising a Doppler signature of the object; an infrared receiving component that receives an emitted infrared signal from the object; a microphone that receives an audible signal generated by the object; a camera that receives an optical signal associated with the object; and a machine learning module that receives one or more signals comprising one or more of the reflected radar signal, the emitted infrared signal, the audible signal, or the optical signal, and utilizes the one or more signals to yield a classification of the object.
</claims>
</document>
