<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2010-08-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F02D41/22,G06F11/07,G06F3/06,G06Q10/00,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/06,G07C5/00,G07C5/08,G08C19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZONAR SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRINTON, BRETT
COLVIN, GREG
MCQUADE, CHARLES MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
45698270
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REMOTE VEHICLE DIAGNOSIS
</title>

<abstract>
Operational data generated and used in a vehicle to control various vehicular systems is temporarily stored in a data buffer in the vehicle. A processor in the vehicle is configured to detect anomalous conditions, which can be based on predefined fault codes or user defined conditions (based on a single parameter or a combination of parameters). Whenever such an anomaly is detected, a diagnostic log is conveyed from the vehicle to a remote location. Such a log will include the detected anomaly, and buffered operational data. In at least one embodiment, the diagnostic log includes buffered operational data collected both before and after the anomaly. The diagnostic log is analyzed at the remote location to diagnose the cause of the anomalous condition so a decision can be made as to whether the vehicle requires immediate repair, or whether the repair can be scheduled at a later time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for diagnosing vehicle faults, comprising: a data buffer in which the operational data generated from a plurality of components during operation of the vehicle is temporarily stored; a data link for wirelessly conveying data from the vehicle during operation of the vehicle; and at least one processor configured to detect an anomalous condition and respond to detection of the anomalous condition, by conveying data defining the detected anomalous condition and buffered operational data generated at a time proximate to the detection of the anomalous condition; and a first remote server at a first remote location; and a second remote server at a second remote location; the first remote server being configured to forward the data defining the detected anomalous condition and buffered operational data to the second remote server at the second remote location without analyzing the data, the second remote server at the second remote location analyzing the detected anomalous condition and buffered operational data to determine if the detected anomalous condition and buffered operational data indicates a particular fault code data.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is configured to identify an anomalous condition corresponding to a fault code defined by a vehicle's manufacturer.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is configured to identify a user defined anomalous condition, the user comprising at least one of an operator of a vehicle and an operator of a remote computing device.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is configured to receive instructions from the remote location defining the anomalous condition.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is configured to receive instructions from the remote location defining a quantity or type of buffered operational data to be conveyed to the remote location when the anomalous condition is detected.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein a processor in the second remote server requests additional one or more specific types of data from the processor, if the additional one or more specific types of data are needed by the second remote server to facilitate or confirm a diagnostic analysis performed by the second remote server to enable the processor to identify a cause of the anomalous condition.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is configured to detect the anomalous condition by analyzing the operational data as it is generated.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the data buffer, the data link, and the processor are combined into a diagnostic device that is attached to a vehicle.
9. The system of claim 3, wherein the computing device is further configured to detect instances in which a cause of the anomalous condition is likely to cause damage to a vehicle or an unsafe condition for the vehicle, and upon such detection, issue instructions to a vehicle operator to cease vehicle operations as soon as possible.
10. A method for diagnosing an anomalous vehicle condition, in a system including a vehicle having a plurality of components that generate operational data during operation of the vehicle over a road, a data buffer in which the operational data is temporarily stored, a data link for wirelessly conveying data from the vehicle during operation of the vehicle, and at least one vehicle processor, the method comprising: detecting an anomalous condition during operation of the vehicle; responding to the detection of the anomalous condition, by conveying data defining the detected anomalous condition and buffered operational data generated at a time proximate to the detection of the anomalous condition; receiving, at a first remote server, the data defining the detected anomalous condition and buffered operational data; forwarding, from the first remote server, the data defining the detected anomalous condition and buffered operational data to a second remote server at a remote location without analyzing the data; and analyzing, at the second remote server, the detected anomalous condition and buffered operational data to determine if the detected anomalous condition and buffered operational data indicate a particular fault code data.
11. A system for diagnosing a vehicle fault, comprising: a data buffer in which operational data generated by operation of a vehicle is temporarily stored; a data link that wirelessly conveys data from the vehicle during operation of the vehicle; at least one processor configured to detect an anomalous condition and respond to detection of the anomalous condition, by conveying fault related data including one or more of detected fault codes, collected data about the vehicle fault, location of the vehicle at a fault time, and operational data before and after the vehicle fault; and a remote server at a remote location that analyzes the fault related data and the operational data to determine if the detected anomalous condition predicts a specific failure, wherein the remote server requests additional information from the vehicle, and wherein the remote server contacts an operator of the vehicle to advise the operator of the predicted specific failure determined by the analysis on the remote server.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the request of additional information from the vehicle by the remote server includes instructing the vehicle operator to acquire electronic vehicle performance data.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is configured to identify an anomalous condition corresponding to a fault code defined by the vehicle's manufacturer.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is configured to identify a user defined anomalous condition, the user comprising at least one of an operator of the vehicle and an operator of a remote computing device.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is configured to receive instructions from the remote location defining the anomalous condition.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is configured to receive instructions from the remote location defining a quantity or type of buffered operational data to be conveyed to the remote location when the anomalous condition is detected.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein a processor in the second remote server requests additional one or more specific types of data from the processor, if the additional one or more specific types of data are needed by a second remote server to facilitate or confirm a diagnostic analysis performed by the second remote server to enable the processor to identify a cause of the anomalous condition.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is configured to detect the anomalous condition by analyzing the operational data as it is generated.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein the data buffer, the data link, and the processor are combined into a diagnostic device that is attached to the vehicle.
20. The system of claim 14, wherein the computing device is further configured to detect instances in which a cause of the anomalous condition is likely to cause damage to the vehicle or an unsafe condition for the vehicle, and upon such detection, issue instructions to a vehicle operator to cease vehicle operations as soon as possible.
21. A method for diagnosing a vehicle fault, in a system including a data buffer in which operational data generated by operation of a vehicle is temporarily stored, a data link that wirelessly conveys data from the vehicle during operation of the vehicle, and at least one processor, the method comprising: detecting an anomalous condition during operation of the vehicle; in response to the detection of the anomalous condition, conveying fault related data including one or more of detected fault codes, collected data about the vehicle fault, location of the vehicle at a fault time, and operational data before and after the vehicle fault; receiving, at a remote server, the conveyed fault related data including one or more of detected fault codes, collected data about the vehicle fault, location of the vehicle at a fault time, and operational data before and after the vehicle fault; analyzing, at the remote server, the fault related data and buffered operational data to determine if the detected anomalous condition predicts a specific failure; requesting, via the remote server, additional information from the vehicle; and contacting, via the remote server, an operator of the vehicle to advise the operator of the predicted specific failure determined by the analysis on the remote server.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein requesting, via the remote server, additional information from the vehicle includes instructing the vehicle operator to acquire electronic vehicle performance data.
</claims>
</document>
