<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/10,G07F19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BENKREIRA, ABDELKADER
EDWARDS, JOSHUA
MOSSOBA, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65495936
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND DEVICES FOR AUTOMATIC TRANSACTION MACHINES FOR RECOGNIZING SURROUNDINGS
</title>

<abstract>
A method for enhancing automated transaction machine (ATM) security surveillance. The method consists of receiving a set of data from a financial device and generating a template for the financial device. The method generates an analysis by analyzing a portion of the received set of data. The method then determines a likelihood factor that the analyzed first portion is associated with a security threat, wherein if the likelihood factor is above a threshold then the method generates a second analysis by analyzing a second portion of the received first set of data and revises the likelihood factor based on the second analysis. The method generates a notice if the first likelihood factor exceeds a second threshold and then updates the template with the analysis and the likelihood factor and receives a second set of data from the monitoring device. The method updates the template with the second set of data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A processing device for analyzing ATM security surveillance, comprising: one or more memory devices storing instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to perform operations comprising: initiating communication with a financial device which collects data associated with its environment; receiving a first set of data from the financial device; generating a template for the financial device, the template comprising the received first set of data; storing the template; generating a first analysis by analyzing a first portion of the received first set of data; determining a first likelihood factor that the analyzed first portion is associated with a security threat, wherein if the first likelihood factor is above a first threshold: generating a second analysis by analyzing a second portion of the received first set of data, and revising the first likelihood factor based on the second analysis; generating a first notice if the first likelihood factor exceeds a second threshold; updating the template with the first analysis and the first likelihood factor; receiving a second set of data from the financial device; and updating the template with the second set of data.
22. The device of claim 21, further comprising storing the received first and second sets of data.
23. The device of claim 21, wherein the first set of data comprises audio and video data.
24. The device of claim 21, further comprising: generating a third analysis by analyzing a first portion of the received second set of data; determining a second likelihood factor that the third analysis is associated with a security threat, wherein if the second likelihood factor is above the first threshold: generating a fourth analysis by analyzing a second portion of the received second set of data; revising the second likelihood factor based on the fourth analysis; generating a second notice if the second likelihood factor exceeds the second threshold; and updating the template with the fourth analysis and the second likelihood factor.
25. The device of claim 24, further comprising: initiating communication with a second financial device; receiving, from the second financial device, a third set of data; generating a second template for the second financial device, the second template comprising the received third set of data; and storing the second template.
26. The device of claim 21, further comprising transmitting the first notice to a security party.
27. The device of claim 21, further comprising sending an alert of the first notice to a user of the financial device.
28. A method for analyzing ATM security surveillance, comprising: initiating, via an ATM device, communication with a processing center; receiving a first set of data from a sensor device; generating a template associated with an event, the template comprising the received first set of data; storing the template; generating a first analysis by analyzing a first portion of the received first set of data; determining a first likelihood factor that the analyzed first portion is associated with a security threat, wherein if the first likelihood factor is above a first threshold: generating a second analysis by analyzing a second portion of the received first set of data; and revising the first likelihood factor based on the second analysis; generating a first alert if the first likelihood factor exceeds a second threshold; updating the template with the first analysis and the first likelihood factor; receiving a second set of data from the sensor device; updating the template with the second set of data; and providing the processing center the first analysis, the first likelihood factor, and the second analysis.
29. The method of claim 28, further comprising storing the received first and second sets of data.
30. The method of claim 28, wherein the first set of data comprises audio and video data.
31. The method of claim 28, further comprising: generating a third analysis by analyzing a first portion of the received second set of data; determining a second likelihood factor that the third analysis is associated with a security threat, wherein if the second likelihood factor is above the first threshold: generating a fourth analysis by analyzing a second portion of the received second set of data; and revising the second likelihood factor based on the fourth analysis; generating a second alert if the second likelihood factor exceeds the second threshold; updating the template with the fourth analysis and second likelihood factor; and providing, to the processing center, the third analysis, the second likelihood factor, and the fourth analysis.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein the template is associated with a user.
33. The method of claim 32, wherein the method further comprises storing, for a plurality of users, a corresponding plurality of templates.
34. The method of claim 28, further comprising transmitting the first alert to the processing center.
35. A system for analyzing ATM security surveillance, comprising: one or more memory devices storing instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to perform operations comprising: initiating, via an ATM device, communication with a processing center; receiving a first set of data from a sensor device; generating a template associated with an event, the template comprising the received first set of data; storing the template; generating a first analysis by analyzing a first portion of the received first set of data; determining a first likelihood factor that the analyzed first portion is associated with a security threat, wherein if the first likelihood factor is above a first threshold: generating a second analysis by analyzing a second portion of the received first set of data; and revising the first likelihood factor based on the second analysis; generating a first alert if the first likelihood factor exceeds a second threshold; updating the template with the first analysis and the first likelihood factor; receiving a second set of data from the sensor device; storing the received first and second sets of data; updating the template with the second set of data; and providing the processing center the first analysis, the first likelihood factor, and the second analysis.
36. The system of claim 35, wherein the first set of data comprises at least one of audio or video data.
37. The system of claim 35, further comprising: generating a third analysis by analyzing a first portion of the received second set of data; determining a second likelihood factor that the third analysis is associated with a security threat, wherein if the second likelihood factor is above the first threshold: generating a fourth analysis by analyzing a second portion of the received second set of data; and revising the second likelihood factor based on the fourth analysis; generating a second alert if the second likelihood factor exceeds the second threshold; updating the template with the fourth analysis and second likelihood factor; and providing the processing center the third analysis, the second likelihood factor, and the fourth analysis.
38. The system of claim 35, wherein the template is further associated with a user.
39. The system of claim 38, wherein the method further comprises storing a of templates, for a corresponding plurality of users.
40. The system of claim 35 further comprising transmitting the first alert notice to the processing center.
</claims>
</document>
