<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S5/02,G01S5/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JOHNSON CONTROLS TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HORGAN, DONAGH S.
BAITSON, GRAHAM M.
CRONIN, MICHAEL G.
HURLEY, JAMES B.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69177655
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-ALGORITHM TRILATERATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
An illustrative embodiment disclosed herein is a system including client devices distributed across an environment and configured to generate distance measurements. The system further includes wireless transceivers. Each transceiver is associated with one of the client devices. Each transceiver is configured to send and receive distance measurements. The system further includes a trilateration circuit in at least one of the client devices. The trilateration circuit is configured to receive the distance measurements from the client devices, determine a first position and a first weight based on the distance measurements via a first algorithm, determine second position and a second weight based on the second distance measurements via a second algorithm, calculate a final position based on the first position, the second position, the first weight, and the second weight, and send the final position to the plurality of client devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A trilateration system comprising: a plurality of client devices distributed across a first environment and configured to generate a plurality of base distance measurements; a plurality of wireless transceivers, each of the plurality of transceivers coupled to one of the plurality of client devices, the plurality of transceivers configured to send and receive base distance measurements; and a trilateration circuit in at least one of the plurality of client devices, the trilateration circuit configured to: receive the plurality of base distance measurements from the plurality of client devices in the first environment; determine a first position and a first weight based on the plurality of base distance measurements via a first algorithm; determine second position and a second weight based on the plurality of base distance measurements via a second algorithm; calculate a final position based on the first position, the second position, the first weight, and the second weight; and send the final position to the plurality of client devices.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining the first position and determining the second position are in response to determining an absence of an exact fit solution.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the first weight is based on a first certainty level, and wherein the second weight based on a second certainty level.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the first weight is proportional to the first certainty level, wherein the second weight is proportional to the second certainty level, and wherein a sum of the first weight and the second weight is equal to a value of one.
5. The system of claim 1, the trilateration circuit further configured to: receive a plurality of live distance measurements from a plurality of second client devices distributed across a second environment; determine a third position and a third weight via the first algorithm; determine a fourth position and a fourth weight via the second algorithm; update the first weight based on the third weight; update the third weight based on the fourth weight; and calculate a second final position of the second environment based on the third position, the fourth position, the updated first weight and the updated second weight.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of base distance measurements comprises raw data samples of a first one of the plurality of client devices, wherein each of the raw data samples are measured at different times, and wherein the trilateration circuit is further configured to select a window of the raw data samples in response to receiving the raw data samples from the first one of the plurality of client devices.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the selecting the window of the raw data samples comprises: determining a first median value of a first subset of the raw data samples; determining a second median value of a second subset of the raw data samples; and in response to a difference between the second median value and the first median value being less than a pre-determined value, selecting from the first one of the plurality of client devices only the first subset of the raw data samples.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the calculating comprises: determining a first weighted position by multiplying the first position by the first weight; determining a second weighted position by multiplying the second position by the second weight; and calculating a sum of the first weighted position and the second weighted position.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the first algorithm comprises a clustering algorithm and the second algorithm comprises a linear regression algorithm.
10. A trilateration method comprising: receiving, by a trilateration circuit, a plurality of base distance measurements from a plurality of client devices distributed across a first environment; determining, by the trilateration circuit, a first position and a first weight based on the plurality of base distance measurements via a first algorithm; determining, by the trilateration circuit, a second position and a second weight based on the plurality of base distance measurements via a second algorithm; calculating, by the trilateration circuit, a final position based on the first position, the second position, the first weight, and the second weight; and sending, by the trilateration circuit, the final position to the plurality of client devices.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the determining the first position and determining the second position are in response to determining an absence of an exact fit solution.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the first weight is based on a first certainty level, and wherein the second weight is based on a second certainty level.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first weight is proportional to the first certainty level, wherein the second weight is proportional to the second certainty level, and wherein a sum of the first weight and the second weight is equal to a value of one.
14. The method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving, by the trilateration circuit, a plurality of live distance measurements from a plurality of second client devices in a second environment; determining, by the trilateration circuit, a third position and a third weight via the first algorithm; determining, by the trilateration circuit, a fourth position and a fourth weight via the second algorithm; updating, by the trilateration circuit, the first weight based on the third weight; updating, by the trilateration circuit, the third weight based on the fourth weight; and calculating, by the trilateration circuit, a second final position based on the third position, the fourth position, the updated first weight and the updated second weight.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of base distance measurements comprises raw data samples of a first one of the plurality of client devices, wherein each of the raw data samples are measured at different times, and wherein the method further comprises selecting a window of the raw data samples in response to receiving the raw data samples from the first one of the plurality of client devices.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the selecting the window of the raw data samples comprises: determining a first median value of a first subset of the raw data samples; determining a second median value of a second subset of the raw data samples; and in response to a difference between the second median value and the first median value being less than a pre-determined value, selecting from the first one of the plurality of client devices only the first subset of the raw data samples.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein the calculating comprises: determining a first weighted position by multiplying the first position by the first weight; determining a second weighted position by multiplying the second position by the second weight; and calculating a sum of the first weighted position and the second weighted position.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein the first algorithm comprises a clustering algorithm and the second algorithm comprises a linear regression algorithm.
19. A trilateration system comprising: a plurality of client devices distributed across a first environment and configured to generate a plurality of base distance measurements; a plurality of wireless transceivers, each of the plurality of transceivers coupled to one of the plurality of client devices, the plurality of transceivers configured to send and receive base distance measurements; and a trilateration circuit in at least one of the plurality of client devices, the trilateration circuit configured to: receive the plurality of base distance measurements from the plurality of client devices in the first environment; determine a plurality of positions and a plurality of weights based on the plurality of base distance measurements via a plurality of algorithms; calculate a final position based on the plurality of positions and the plurality of weights; and send the final position to the plurality of client devices.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the determining the plurality of positions is in response to determining an absence of an exact fit solution.
</claims>
</document>
