<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,G10L15/18,G10L15/22,G10L15/26,G10L15/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJI XEROX COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
IWANARI, Mami
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73994066
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INFORMATION PROCESSING APPARATUS AND NON-TRANSITORY COMPUTER READABLE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
An information processing apparatus includes a processor. The processor is configured to identify, from a character string recognition result for a form, a form feature that indicates at least a field in which the form is used or an attribute of a filling-out person filling out the form, accumulate past correction tendencies for character string recognition results for forms having respective identified form features, and obtain a correction tendency for a form having a form feature that is the same as the identified form feature from among the accumulated correction tendencies, and perform control to display a candidate correct expression for the character string recognition result for the form in accordance with the obtained correction tendency.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing apparatus comprising a processor configured to identify, from a character string recognition result for a form, a form feature that indicates at least a field in which the form is used or an attribute of a filling-out person filling out the form, accumulate past correction tendencies for character string recognition results for forms having respective identified form features, and obtain a correction tendency for a form having a form feature that is the same as the identified form feature from among the accumulated correction tendencies, and perform control to display a candidate correct expression for the character string recognition result for the form in accordance with the obtained correction tendency.
2. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to further identify a form feature for each box of a form in which a character string is entered, and accumulate a correction tendency for a character string recognition result in association with the box of the form as a past correction tendency, and obtain a correction tendency, for a character string, associated with each box of a form of a type that is the same as a type of a received form, and perform control to display a candidate correct expression for each box of the received form in accordance with the obtained correction tendency.
3. The information processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the processor is configured to further identify a combination feature inferred by combining form features identified for respective boxes of a form, and accumulate a correction tendency for a character string recognition result for the form having the combination feature as a past correction tendency, and in a case where the received form has a combination feature, obtain a correction tendency, for a character string, associated with the combination feature from among the accumulated correction tendencies, and perform control to display, in accordance with the obtained correction tendency, a candidate correct expression for a character string in a box with which a form feature used to infer the combination feature is associated.
4. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to further perform control to display the candidate correct expression that is a character string formed of two or more characters.
5. The information processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the processor is configured to further perform control to display the candidate correct expression that is a character string formed of two or more characters.
6. The information processing apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the processor is configured to further perform control to display the candidate correct expression that is a character string formed of two or more characters.
7. The information processing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the processor is configured to further perform control to display the candidate correct expression in units of words.
8. The information processing apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to further perform control to display the candidate correct expression in units of words.
9. The information processing apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the processor is configured to further perform control to display the candidate correct expression in units of words.
10. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to further perform control to display a reason for displaying the candidate correct expression.
11. The information processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the processor is configured to further perform control to display a reason for displaying the candidate correct expression.
12. The information processing apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the processor is configured to further perform control to display a reason for displaying the candidate correct expression.
13. The information processing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the processor is configured to further perform control to display a reason for displaying the candidate correct expression.
14. The information processing apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to further perform control to display a reason for displaying the candidate correct expression.
15. The information processing apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the processor is configured to further perform control to display a reason for displaying the candidate correct expression.
16. The information processing apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to further perform control to display a reason for displaying the candidate correct expression.
17. The information processing apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to further perform control to display a reason for displaying the candidate correct expression.
18. The information processing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the processor is configured to further perform control to display a reason for displaying the candidate correct expression.
19. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing an information processing program causing a computer to execute a process, the process comprising: identifying, from a character string recognition result for a form, a form feature that indicates at least a field in which the form is used or an attribute of a filling-out person filling out the form; accumulating past correction tendencies for character string recognition results for forms having respective identified form features; and obtaining a correction tendency for a form having a form feature that is the same as the identified form feature from among the accumulated correction tendencies, and performing control to display a candidate correct expression for the character string recognition result for the form in accordance with the obtained correction tendency.
20. An information processing apparatus comprising: means for identifying, from a character string recognition result for a form, a form feature that indicates at least a field in which the form is used or an attribute of a filling-out person filling out the form; means for accumulating past correction tendencies for character string recognition results for forms having respective identified form features; and means for obtaining a correction tendency for a form having a form feature that is the same as the identified form feature from among the accumulated correction tendencies, and performing control to display a candidate correct expression for the character string recognition result for the form in accordance with the obtained correction tendency.
</claims>
</document>
