<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01W1/10,G06K9/62,G06T7/11,G06T7/13,G06T7/20,G06T7/70,G06T7/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Tianjin Kantian Technology Co., Ltd.
</assignee>

<inventors>
LU, YANG
YAN, SIMENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70460082
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cloud forecast using sequential images
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for cloud forecast using configuration engine, segment cloud coverage determination engine, and trained forecast models are described herein. The disclosed techniques include generating a configuration mask based on a type of an optical component for capturing a plurality of sky images and determining cloud coverages of a plurality of corresponding segments by applying the configuration mask and a segment cloud coverage determination algorithm to the plurality of images. The disclosed techniques include training a plurality of forecast models for forecasting cloud coverages of the plurality of corresponding segments using the determined cloud coverages. The plurality of forecast models correlate cloud coverages of the plurality of corresponding segments at a time point with a cloud coverage of any particular segment at a later time point. The plurality of trained forecast models generate data indicative of cloud coverages of the plurality corresponding segments at a future time point.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of cloud forecast, comprising: generating a configuration mask based on a type of an optical component for capturing a plurality of images, the plurality of images being time-sequenced and imaging a sky area; determining cloud coverages of a plurality of corresponding segments in each of the plurality of images by applying the configuration mask and a segment cloud coverage determination algorithm to each of the plurality of images; training a plurality of forecast models for forecasting cloud coverages of the plurality of corresponding segments using the determined cloud coverages, wherein a particular forecast model for a particular segment among the plurality of forecast models correlates cloud coverages of the plurality of corresponding segments at a time point with a cloud coverage of the particular segment at a later time point; and generating a set of data indicative of cloud coverages of the plurality corresponding segments at a future time point using the plurality of forecast models.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a cloud coverage of the sky area at the future time point based on the cloud coverages of the plurality corresponding segments at the future time point.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the segment cloud coverage determination algorithm further comprises a cloud locator engine, an edge detection engine, and a color cluster engine.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein there is a predetermined time interval between the time point and at the later time point.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined time interval is twenty-minute.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the optical component is a fisheye lens.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a cloud movement direction in the sky area based at least in part on the cloud coverages of the plurality corresponding segments at the future time point.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: determining a most similar neighbouring segment for any particular segment based at least in part on changes of cloud coverages of segments among the plurality of corresponding segments from a current time point to the future time point.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprises: generating forecast data indicative of cloud movement directions in the plurality of corresponding segments.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprises: identifying a cloud movement direction that has a highest occurrence among the forecast data as the cloud movement direction in the sky area.
11. A system of cloud forecast, comprising: a processor; and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor to configure the processor at least to: generate a configuration mask based on a type of an optical component for capturing a plurality of images, the plurality of images being time-sequenced and imaging a sky area; determine cloud coverages of a plurality of corresponding segments in each of the plurality of images by applying the configuration mask and a segment cloud coverage determination algorithm to each of the plurality of images; train a plurality of forecast models for forecasting cloud coverages of the plurality of corresponding segments using the determined cloud coverages, wherein a particular forecast model for a particular segment among the plurality of forecast models correlates cloud coverages of the plurality of corresponding segments at a time point with a cloud coverage of the particular segment at a later time point; and generate a set of data indicative of cloud coverages of the plurality corresponding segments at a future time point using the plurality of forecast models.
12. The system of claim 11, the memory further configuring the processor at least to: determine a cloud coverage of the sky area at the future time point based on the cloud coverages of the plurality corresponding segments at the future time point.
13. The system of claim 11, the memory further configuring the processor at least to: determine a cloud movement direction in the sky area based at least in part on the cloud coverages of the plurality corresponding segments at the future time point.
14. The system of claim 13, the memory further configuring the processor at least to: generate forecast data indicative of cloud movement directions in the plurality of corresponding segments based at least in part on changes of cloud coverages of the plurality of corresponding segments from a current time point to the future time point.
15. The system of claim 14, the memory further configuring the processor at least to: identify a cloud movement direction that has a highest occurrence among the forecast data as the cloud movement direction in the sky area.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium bearing computer-readable instructions that upon execution on a computing device cause the computing device at least to: generate a configuration mask based on a type of an optical component for capturing a plurality of images, the plurality of images being time-sequenced and imaging a sky area; determine cloud coverages of a plurality of corresponding segments in each of the plurality of images by applying the configuration mask and a segment cloud coverage determination algorithm to each of the plurality of images; train a plurality of forecast models for forecasting cloud coverages of the plurality of corresponding segments using the determined cloud coverages, wherein a particular forecast model for a particular segment among the plurality of forecast models correlates cloud coverages of the plurality of corresponding segments at a time point with a cloud coverage of the particular segment at a later time point; and generate a set of data indicative of cloud coverages of the plurality corresponding segments at a future time point using the plurality of forecast models.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, further comprising computer-readable instructions that upon execution on the computing device cause the computing device at least to: determine a cloud coverage of the sky area at the future time point based on the cloud coverages of the plurality corresponding segments at the future time point.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, further comprising computer-readable instructions that upon execution on the computing device cause the computing device at least to: determine a cloud movement direction in the sky area based at least in part on the cloud coverages of the plurality corresponding segments at the future time point.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, further comprising computer-readable instructions that upon execution on the computing device cause the computing device at least to: generate forecast data indicative of cloud movement directions in the plurality of corresponding segments based at least in part on changes of cloud coverages of the plurality of corresponding segments from a current time point to the future time point.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, further comprising computer-readable instructions that upon execution on the computing device cause the computing device at least to: identify a cloud movement direction that has a highest occurrence among the forecast data as the cloud movement direction in the sky area.
</claims>
</document>
