<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04M1/725,H04W4/02,H04W4/021,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRAHAM, RYAN M.
MARGOLIS, MATTHEW J.
HANNIGAN, CIARAN
GREENBERGER, JEREMY
ROISIN, KEVIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63964117
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Eliminating false positives of neighboring zones
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, computer program products, and systems are presented. The method, computer program products, and systems can include, for instance: obtaining position data for a plurality of mobile devices, wherein mobile devices of the plurality of mobile devices have associated identifiers, and wherein the obtained position data is data that has been derived using wirelessly emitted signals; examining data of the position data to determine that one or more user is present within a neighboring zone of a venue, the neighboring zone being a zone that neighbors a certain zone of the venue; predicting that at least one user of the one or more user within the neighboring zone intends to be in the certain zone; specifying a zone association of the at least one user as the certain zone of the venue; and providing one or more output based on the specifying.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining position data for a plurality of mobile devices, wherein mobile devices of the plurality of mobile devices have associated identifiers, and wherein the obtained position data is data that has been derived using wirelessly emitted signals; examining data of the position data to determine that one or more user is present within a neighboring zone of a venue, the neighboring zone being a zone that neighbors a certain zone of the venue; predicting that at least one user of the one or more user within the neighboring zone intends to be in the certain zone; specifying a zone association of the at least one user as the certain zone of the venue; and providing one or more output based on the specifying.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the predicting is based on a preference history of the at least one user of the one or more user within the neighboring zone, and wherein the predicting is based on a flow factor, the flow factor being a factor in dependence on a flow of users from the neighboring zone to the certain zone.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more output includes a control communication sent to a mobile device of the at least one user to activate a function of an application running on the mobile device, and wherein the one or more output includes a notification to the at least one user.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more output includes a control communication that increases sensitivity of a locating service that locates a mobile device of the at least one user.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the predicting is initiated based on a condition being satisfied, wherein the condition is that the certain zone satisfies one or more criterion indicating that the certain zone has become crowded, wherein the one or more output includes a control communication for controlling functioning of service that locates a mobile device of the at least one user.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the predicting is initiated based on a condition being satisfied, wherein the condition is that the certain zone satisfies one or more criterion indicating that the certain zone has become crowded, wherein the one or more output includes a notification to the at least one user.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the examining and predicting are performed in dependence on the position data, wherein the one or more output includes a control communication that controls functioning of a locating service that locates a mobile device of the at least one user.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the examining and predicting are performed in dependence on the position data, wherein the one or more output includes a notification to the at least one user.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the examining and predicting are initiated based on a condition being satisfied, wherein the one or more output includes a control communication that controls functioning of a service that locates a mobile device of the at least one user.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more output includes a control communication sent to a mobile device of the user to activate a function of an application running on the mobile device.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more output includes a control communication sent to a mobile device of the user to activate a function of an application running on the mobile device, wherein the one or more output includes a control communication that controls functioning of a locating service that locates a mobile device of the at least one user.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more output includes a control communication that activates on a mobile device of the at least one user a previously inactive mobile device locating process, the previously inactive locating process being a process that processes received radio signals received from a plurality of different beacons within the venue.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining position data includes storing position data into a non-persistent in-memory data store having a message queue, wherein the predicting includes using data of the position data stored in the non-persistent in-memory data store, wherein the predicting is performed using a microservice that processes tagged messages of the message queue that are tagged with topic tags indicating operation by the microservice.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the examining and predicting are initiated based on a condition being satisfied, wherein the condition is that the certain zone satisfies one or more criterion indicating that the certain zone has become crowded.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the method includes at the venue tagging outgoing messages for a message queue with topic tags indicating operation by a microservice, and wherein the specifying a zone association of the at least one user as the certain zone of the venue includes storing information into a persistent data store, the information indicating a zone association of the at least one user as the certain zone.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining position data includes storing position data into a non-persistent in-memory data store, wherein the examining and predicting include using data of the position data stored in the non-persistent in-memory data store, and wherein the specifying a zone association of the at least one user as the certain zone of the venue includes storing information into a persistent data store indicating a zone association of the at least one user as the certain zone, wherein the position data includes data that has been derived by processing radio signals emitted by the plurality of mobile devices and received by access devices of the venue, wherein the position data includes data that has been derived by processing radio signals emitted by the plurality of mobile devices and received by access devices of the venue, wherein the examining and predicting are initiated based on a condition being satisfied, wherein the condition is that the certain zone satisfies one or more criterion indicating that the certain zone has become crowded.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining position data includes storing position data into a non-persistent in-memory data store, wherein the examining and predicting include using data of the position data stored in the non-persistent in-memory data store, and wherein the specifying a zone association of the at least one user as the certain zone of the venue includes storing information into a persistent data store indicating a zone association of the at least one user as the certain zone.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the position data includes data that has been derived by processing radio signals emitted by the plurality of mobile devices and received by access devices of the venue, wherein the position data includes data that has been derived by processing radio signals emitted by the plurality of mobile devices and received by access devices of the venue, wherein the examining and predicting are initiated based on a condition being satisfied, wherein the condition is that the certain zone satisfies one or more criterion indicating that the certain zone has become crowded.
19. A computer program product comprising: a computer readable storage medium readable by one or more processing circuit and storing instructions for execution by one or more processor for performing a method comprising: obtaining position data for a plurality of mobile devices, wherein mobile devices of the plurality of mobile devices have associated identifiers, and wherein the obtained position data is data that has been derived using wirelessly emitted signals; examining data of the position data to determine that one or more user is present within a neighboring zone of a venue, the neighboring zone being a zone that neighbors a certain zone of the venue; predicting that at least one user of the one or more user within the neighboring zone intends to be in the certain zone; specifying a zone association of the at least one user as the certain zone of the venue; and providing one or more output based on the specifying.
20. A system comprising: a memory; at least one processor in communication with the memory; and program instructions executable by one or more processor via the memory to perform a method comprising: obtaining position data for a plurality of mobile devices, wherein mobile devices of the plurality of mobile devices have associated identifiers, and wherein the obtained position data is data that has been derived using wirelessly emitted signals; examining data of the position data to determine that one or more user is present within a neighboring zone of a venue, the neighboring zone being a zone that neighbors a certain zone of the venue; predicting that at least one user of the one or more user within the neighboring zone intends to be in the certain zone; specifying a zone association of the at least one user as the certain zone of the venue; and providing one or more output based on the specifying.
</claims>
</document>
