<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/57
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON
</assignee>

<inventors>
KATO SHIGEKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71130874
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEASUREMENT DEVICE, MEASUREMENT METHOD, AND NON-TRANSITORY STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A measurement device configured to measure reflection characteristic of a test surface includes: an illumination unit configured to illuminate the test surface with light from a light source; a detection unit configured to detect reflected light distribution from the test surface illuminated by the illumination unit; and a processing unit configured to obtain information indicating a degree of diffusion, information regarding a light amount of regular reflected light, and information regarding a light amount in a periphery of a regular reflection direction, based on the reflected light distribution detected by the detection unit, and calculate an evaluation value regarding image clearness using the information indicating the degree of diffusion, the information regarding the light amount of the regular reflected light, and the information regarding the light amount in the periphery of the regular reflection direction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A measurement device configured to measure reflection characteristic of a test surface, the measurement device comprising: an illumination unit configured to illuminate the test surface with light from a light source; a detection unit configured to detect reflected light from the test surface illuminated by the illumination unit; and a processing unit configured to obtain information indicating a degree of diffusion, information regarding a light amount of regular reflected light, and information regarding a light amount in a periphery of a regular reflection direction, based on the reflected light detected by the detection unit, and calculate an evaluation value regarding image clearness using the information indicating the degree of diffusion, the information regarding the light amount of the regular reflected light, and the information regarding the light amount in the periphery of the regular reflection direction.
2. The measurement device according to claim 1, wherein the detection unit detects a reflected light distribution from the test surface illuminated by the illumination unit, and the processing unit obtains the information indicating the degree of diffusion based on the reflected light distribution detected by the detection unit.
3. The measurement device according to claim 1, wherein the detection unit includes a line sensor.
4. The measurement device according to claim 1, wherein the detection unit includes a two-dimensional sensor.
5. The measurement device according to claim 1, wherein the information indicating the degree of diffusion includes width information of a waveform of a reflected light distribution of the received light or width information of a waveform of a BRDF.
6. The measurement device according to claim 1, wherein the information indicating the degree of diffusion includes an image clarity measurement value or a DOI measurement value.
7. The measurement device according to claim 1, wherein the processing unit calculates at least one of the information of the light amount of the regular reflected light and the information regarding the light amount in the periphery of the regular reflection direction based on information regarding a BRDF obtained based on the reflected light from the test surface.
8. The measurement device according to claim 1, wherein the information regarding the light amount of the regular reflected light includes a gloss value, and the information regarding the light amount in the periphery of the regular reflection direction includes a haze value.
9. The measurement device according to claim 1, wherein the processing unit performs a weighting operation on the information indicating the degree of diffusion, the information regarding the light amount of the regular reflected light, and the information regarding the light amount in the periphery of the regular reflection direction to calculate a value corresponding to the image clearness.
10. The measurement device according to claim 9, wherein the processing unit performs the weighting by performing exponentiation of a contrast value and a numerical value including information regarding image brightness.
11. The measurement device according to claim 9, wherein the processing unit further converts the weighted value corresponding to the image clearness using a logarithm.
12. The measurement device according to claim 9, wherein the processing unit sets a coefficient used for the weighting based on at least one of characteristics of the test surface, a measurement environment, and a purpose of measurement.
13. The measurement device according to claim 9, wherein the processing unit prepares a plurality of sets of combinations of coefficients used for the weighting such that one corresponding set is able to be selected from among the plurality of sets depending on a mode setting.
14. The measurement device according to claim 13, wherein the mode includes at least one of an outdoor mode on an assumption of an outdoor environment and an indoor mode on an assumption of an indoor environment.
15. The measurement device according to claim 13, wherein the processing unit has a setting mechanism configured to additionally set a set of coefficients used for the weighting.
16. A measurement method for measuring reflection characteristic of a test surface, the method comprising: detecting reflected light from the test surface illuminated by an illumination unit; obtaining information indicating a degree of diffusion, information regarding a light amount of regular reflected light, and information regarding a light amount in a periphery of a regular reflection direction based on the detected reflected light; and calculating an evaluation value regarding image clearness using the information indicating the degree of diffusion, the information regarding the light amount of the regular reflected light, and the information regarding the light amount in the periphery of the regular reflection direction.
17. A non-transitory storage medium on which is stored a computer program for making a computer execute a method for measuring reflection characteristic of a test surface, the method comprising: obtaining information indicating a degree of diffusion, information regarding a light amount of regular reflected light, and information regarding a light amount in a periphery of a regular reflection direction based on the detected reflected light; and calculating an evaluation value regarding image clearness using the information indicating the degree of diffusion, the information regarding the light amount of the regular reflected light, and the information regarding the light amount in the periphery of the regular reflection direction.
</claims>
</document>
