<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/46,G06T7/00,G06T7/586
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GETAC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
TSAI, KUN-YU
YANG, PO-YU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73228556
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE DETECTION SCANNING METHOD FOR OBJECT SURFACE DEFECTS AND IMAGE DETECTION SCANNING SYSTEM THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
An image detection scanning method for object surface defects and an image detection scanning system thereof are provided. The method includes capturing a test image by a photosensitive element according to test light, determining whether a setting parameter of the photosensitive element is normal by a processor according to the test image, generating a warning signal if the setting parameter is abnormal, performing a detection procedure if the setting parameter is normal, sequentially moving one of a plurality of areas on a surface of an object to the detection position in the detection procedure, providing detection light by a light source component in the detection procedure to illuminate the detection position, and capturing a detection image of each of the areas sequentially located at the detection position by the photosensitive element according to the detection light in the detection procedure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image detection scanning system for object surface defects, suitable for inspecting an object, the system comprising: a driver component carrying the object, wherein a surface of the object is divided along an extension direction into a plurality of areas, the driver component sequentially moving one of the plurality of areas to a detection position; a light source component configured to face the detection position, providing detection light to illuminate the detection position, a light incident angle of the detection light relative to a normal line of the area located at the detection position being less than or equal to 90 degrees; a photosensitive element configured to face the detection position, capturing a detection image of the area sequentially located at the detection position, and capturing a test image according to test light before capturing the detection image of the area, wherein a photosensitive axis of the photosensitive element is parallel to the normal line or is between the normal line and the extension direction; and a processor coupled to the photosensitive element, determining whether a setting parameter of the photosensitive element is normal according to the test image, and generating a warning signal if the setting parameter is abnormal and the photosensitive element has performed a calibration operation corresponding to the setting parameter.
2. The image detection scanning system for object surface defects according to claim 1, wherein the processor determines whether the setting parameter is normal by determining whether average brightness of the test image satisfies predetermined brightness.
3. The image detection scanning system for object surface defects according to claim 1, wherein the setting parameter comprises a photosensitivity value, an exposure value, a focal length value, a contrast setting value, or any combination thereof.
4. The image detection scanning system for object surface defects according to claim 1, wherein the processor drives the photosensitive element to perform the calibration operation if the setting parameter is abnormal and the photosensitive element has not yet performed the calibration operation.
5. The image detection scanning system for object surface defects according to claim 4, wherein the photosensitive element adjusts the setting parameter according to a parameter configuration file in the calibration operation, and captures another test image according to the adjusted setting parameter.
6. The image detection scanning system for object surface defects according to claim 1, if the setting parameter is normal, the processor drives the driver component to sequentially move the plurality of areas to the detection position, and drives the photosensitive element to sequentially capture the detection image of the area sequentially located at the detection position.
7. An image detection scanning method for object surface defects, suitable for inspecting an object, the method comprising: capturing a test image by a photosensitive element according to test light; determining whether a setting parameter of the photosensitive element is normal by a processor according to the test image; generating a warning signal if the setting parameter is abnormal; performing a detection procedure if the setting parameter is normal; sequentially moving one of a plurality of areas on a surface of the object to the detection position by a driver component in the detection procedure, wherein the plurality of areas are divided along an extension direction of the surface; providing detection light by a light source component facing the detection position in the detection procedure, wherein the detection light illuminates the detection position with a light incident angle of less than or equal to 90 degrees relative to a normal line of the area located at the detection position; configuring the photosensitive element to face the detection position in the detection procedure, wherein a photosensitive axis of the photosensitive element is parallel to the normal line or is between the normal line and the extension direction; and capturing a detection image of each of the areas sequentially located at the detection position by the photosensitive element according to the detection light in the detection procedure.
8. The image detection scanning method for object surface defects according to claim 7, wherein in the step of generating the warning signal, the warning signal is generated if the setting parameter is abnormal and the photosensitive element has performed a calibration operation corresponding to the setting parameter.
9. The image detection scanning method for object surface defects according to claim 7, wherein in the step of determining whether the setting parameter is normal by the processor according to the test image, the processor determines whether the setting parameter is normal by determining whether average brightness of the test image satisfies predetermined brightness.
10. The image detection scanning method for object surface defects according to claim 7, further comprising: driving the photosensitive element to perform a calibration operation if the setting parameter is abnormal.
11. The image detection scanning method for object surface defects according to claim 10, wherein the step of performing the calibration operation comprises: adjusting the setting parameter of the photosensitive element according to a parameter configuration file; and capturing another test image by the photosensitive element according to the adjusted setting parameter.
</claims>
</document>
