<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/435,G06F16/438,G06F16/45,G06N20/00,H04N21/266
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHIARANDINI, Luca
Sharma, Varun
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68835285
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS, SYSTEMS, AND MEDIA FOR IDENTIFYING ABUSIVE USER ACCOUNTS BASED ON PLAYLISTS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and media for identifying abusive user accounts based on playlists are provided. In accordance with some embodiments of the disclosed subject matter, a method for identifying abusive content is provided, the method comprising: determining at least one feature associated with a playlist created by a user-generated channel; calculating a playlist score associated with the playlist based on a playlist classifier, wherein the playlist classifier comprises a function that maps the at least one feature to the playlist score; calculating a channel score associated with the user-generated channel based at least on the calculated playlist score; determining that one or more content items associated with the user-generated channel is to be demoted based on the calculated channel score, wherein the one or more content items comprises the playlist; and causing the one or more content items to be demoted.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for identifying abusive content, the method comprising: determining, by a hardware processor, at least one feature associated with a playlist created by a user-generated channel; calculating, by the hardware processor, a playlist score associated with the playlist based on a playlist classifier, wherein the playlist classifier comprises a function that maps the at least one feature to the playlist score; calculating, by the hardware processor, a channel score associated with the user-generated channel based at least on the calculated playlist score; determining, by the hardware processor, that one or more content items associated with the user-generated channel is to be demoted based on the calculated channel score, wherein the one or more content items comprises the playlist; and causing, by the hardware processor, the one or more content items to be demoted.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a set of features associated with a first plurality of playlists; and training the playlist classifier based on the determined set of features and a set of ground truth information.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining at least one feature associated with a second plurality of playlists created by the user-generated channel; calculating a plurality of playlist scores each associated with a respective playlist of the second plurality of playlists based on the determined at least one feature associated with the second plurality of playlists; calculating an average playlist score of the user-generated channel by averaging the plurality of playlist scores; and calculating the channel score based on the average playlist score.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein calculating the channel score based on the calculated average playlist score comprises calculating the channel score based on a function that maps the average playlist score to the channel score.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: calculating a plurality of average playlist scores corresponding to a plurality of user-generated channels; partitioning the plurality of user-generated channels into a plurality of partitions based on the plurality of average playlist scores; and determining the function that maps the average playlist score to the channel score based on proportions of types of channels in each partition of the plurality of partitions.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a search query; generating a plurality of search results in response to the search query, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of search results correspond to the one or more content items; and causing at least a portion of the plurality of search results to be presented based on the demotion.
7. A system for identifying abusive content, the system comprising: a hardware processor that is configured to: determine at least one feature associated with a playlist created by a user-generated channel; calculate a playlist score associated with the playlist based on a playlist classifier, wherein the playlist classifier comprises a function that maps the at least one feature to the playlist score; calculate a channel score associated with the user-generated channel based at least on the calculated playlist score; determine that one or more content items associated with the user-generated channel is to be demoted based on the calculated channel score, wherein the one or more content items comprises the playlist; and cause the one or more content items to be demoted.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to: determine a set of features associated with a first plurality of playlists; and train the playlist classifier based on the determined set of features and a set of ground truth information.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to: determine at least one feature associated with a second plurality of playlists created by the user-generated channel; calculate a plurality of playlist scores each associated with a respective playlist of the second plurality of playlists based on the determined at least one feature associated with the second plurality of playlists; calculate an average playlist score of the user-generated channel by averaging the plurality of playlist scores; and calculate the channel score based on the average playlist score.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to calculate the channel score based on a function that maps the average playlist score to the channel score.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to: calculate a plurality of average playlist scores corresponding to a plurality of user-generated channels; partition the plurality of user-generated channels into a plurality of partitions based on the plurality of average playlist scores; and determine the function that maps the average playlist score to the channel score based on proportions of types of channels in each partition of the plurality of partitions.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to: receive a search query; generate a plurality of search results in response to the search query, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of search results correspond to the one or more content items; and cause at least a portion of the plurality of search results to be presented based on the demotion.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable medium containing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a method for identifying abusive content, the method comprising: determining at least one feature associated with a playlist created by a user-generated channel; calculating a playlist score associated with the playlist based on a playlist classifier, wherein the playlist classifier comprises a function that maps the at least one feature to the playlist score; calculating a channel score associated with the user-generated channel based at least on the calculated playlist score; determining that one or more content items associated with the user-generated channel is to be demoted based on the calculated channel score, wherein the one or more content items comprises the playlist; and causing the one or more content items to be demoted.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises determining a set of features associated with a first plurality of playlists; and training the playlist classifier based on the determined set of features and a set of ground truth information.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises: determining at least one feature associated with a second plurality of playlists created by the user-generated channel; calculating a plurality of playlist scores each associated with a respective playlist of the second plurality of playlists based on the determined at least one feature associated with the second plurality of playlists; calculating an average playlist score of the user-generated channel by averaging the plurality of playlist scores; and calculating the channel score based on the average playlist score.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein calculating the channel score based on the calculated average playlist score comprises calculating the channel score based on a function that maps the average playlist score to the channel score.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: calculating a plurality of average playlist scores corresponding to a plurality of user-generated channels; partitioning the plurality of user-generated channels into a plurality of partitions based on the plurality of average playlist scores; and determining the function that maps the average playlist score to the channel score based on proportions of types of channels in each partition of the plurality of partitions.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises: receiving a search query; generating a plurality of search results in response to the search query, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of search results correspond to the one or more content items; and causing at least a portion of the plurality of search results to be presented based on the demotion.
</claims>
</document>
