<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/20,G01C21/34,G06K9/62,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UBER TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHETH, CHANDAN PRAKASH
YANG, SHENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69719082
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IDENTIFYING INCORRECT COORDINATE PREDICTION USING ROUTE INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods of identifying incorrect coordinate prediction using route information are disclosed herein. In some example embodiments, a computer system receives route information and geographic image data. The route information corresponds to a servicing of a request associated with a place and indicates a travelled route that has been traveled by a user in traveling from an origin location to the place, and the geographic image data represents a geographic area corresponding to the travelled route. The computer system determines that an initial geographic location stored in a database in association with the place is incorrect based on the route information and the geographic image data using a first deep learning model, and then performs a verification operation based on the determining that the stored initial geographic location of the place is incorrect.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a computer system having at least one hardware processor, route information and geographic image data, the route information corresponding to a servicing of a request associated with a place and indicating a travelled route that has been traveled by a user in traveling from an origin location to the place, and the geographic image data representing a geographic area corresponding to the travelled route; determining, by the computer system, that an initial geographic location stored in a database in association with the place is incorrect based on the route information and the geographic image data using a first deep learning model; and performing, by the computer system, a verification operation based on the determining that the stored initial geographic location of the place is incorrect.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the geographic image data comprises satellite image data.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the route information comprises a visual indication of the travelled route, and the receiving the route information and the geographic image data comprises receiving an image file comprising the visual indication of the travelled route superimposed onto the geographic image data.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the visual indication of the travelled route comprises a single continuous line.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the visual indication of the travelled route comprises a series of separate points.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first deep learning model comprises a convolutional neural network.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the computer system, a plurality of training data, each one of the plurality of training data comprising training route information and training geographic image data for the training route information, the training route information corresponding to another servicing of another request associated with another place and indicating another travelled route that has been traveled by another user in traveling from another origin location to the other place, and the training geographic image data representing another geographic area corresponding to the other travelled route, a portion of the plurality of training data being identified as indicating that another initial geographic location stored in the database in association with the other place is incorrect, and a remaining portion of the plurality of training data being identified as indicating that another initial geographic location stored in the database in association with the other place is not incorrect; and training, by the computer system, the first deep learning model using the plurality of training data.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the performing the verification operation comprises causing a notification to be displayed on a computing device, the notification indicating that the initial geographic location stored in association with the place in the database is incorrect.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the performing the verification operation comprises: generating a new geographic location for the place using corresponding service data for each one of a plurality of requests for a transportation service associated with the place, the transportation service comprising transportation of a requester of the request to or from the place, the corresponding service data indicating the new geographic location for the place; and storing, by the computer system, the new geographic location in a database in association with the place.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the performing the verification operation comprises causing a communication to be displayed in a computing device of the user, the communication prompting the user to confirm whether there was a problem in the servicing of the request associated with the place.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the computer system, the request associated with the place; generating, by the computer system, a suggested route based on the request using a route-generating model; determining, by the computer system, that there was a problem with the suggested route based on the route information and the geographic image data using a second deep learning model; and performing, by the computer system, another verification operation based on the determining that there was a problem with the suggested route.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the second deep learning model comprises a convolutional neural network.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the performing the other verification operation comprises causing a notification to be displayed on a computing device, the notification indicating that there was a problem with the suggested route.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the performing the other verification operation comprises modifying the route-generating model.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the performing the other verification operation comprises causing a communication to be displayed in a computing device of the user, the communication prompting the user to confirm whether there was a problem in the servicing of the request associated with the place.
16. A system comprising: at least one hardware processor; and a non-transitory machine-readable medium embodying a set of instructions that, when executed by the at least one hardware processor, cause the at least one hardware processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving route information and geographic image data, the route information corresponding to a servicing of a request associated with a place and indicating a travelled route that has been traveled by a user in traveling from an origin location to the place, and the geographic image data representing a geographic area corresponding to the travelled route; determining that an initial geographic location stored in a database in association with the place is incorrect based on the route information and the geographic image data using a first deep learning model; and performing a verification operation based on the determining that the stored initial geographic location of the place is incorrect.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the route information comprises a visual indication of the travelled route, and the receiving the route information and the geographic image data comprises receiving an image file comprising the visual indication of the travelled route superimposed onto the geographic image data.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the performing the verification operation comprises causing a notification to be displayed on a computing device, the notification indicating that the initial geographic location stored in association with the place in the database is incorrect.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the performing the verification operation comprises: generating a new geographic location for the place using corresponding service data for each one of a plurality of requests for a transportation service associated with the place, the transportation service comprising transportation of a requester of the request to or from the place, the corresponding service data indicating the new geographic location for the place; and storing, by the computer system, the new geographic location in a database in association with the place.
20. A non-transitory machine-readable medium embodying a set of instructions that, when executed by at least one hardware processor, cause the at least one hardware processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving route information and geographic image data, the route information corresponding to a servicing of a request associated with a place and indicating a travelled route that has been traveled by a user in traveling from an origin location to the place, and the geographic image data representing a geographic area corresponding to the travelled route; determining that an initial geographic location stored in a database in association with the place is incorrect based on the route information and the geographic image data using a first deep learning model; and performing a verification operation based on the determining that the stored initial geographic location of the place is incorrect.
</claims>
</document>
