<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J11/00,B25J9/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, SUNG JIN
LEE, SANGHAK
KIM, NAKYEONG
MOON, SUNGMIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68070450
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ROBOT
</title>

<abstract>
A robot includes a robot body, an ingredient feeder installed in the robot body to feed an ingredient, first and second robot arms each having an ingredient channel formed therein and connected to the robot body, the ingredient passing through the ingredient channel, and a dispenser disposed in the robot body to dispense the ingredient received from the ingredient feeder to the first and second robot arms. The dispenser includes a common channel connected to the ingredient feeder, a first branch channel communicating with the ingredient channel of the first robot arm, and a second branch channel communicating with the ingredient channel of the second robot arm, and the ingredient, which has passed through the common channel, is selectively fed to the first branch channel and the second branch channel by the dispenser.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A robot comprising: a robot body; an ingredient feeder installed in the robot body to feed an ingredient; first and second robot arms each having an ingredient channel formed therein and connected to the robot body, the ingredient passing through the ingredient channel; and a dispenser disposed in the robot body to dispense the ingredient received from the ingredient feeder to the first and second robot arms, wherein the dispenser includes: a common channel connected to the ingredient feeder, a first branch channel communicating with the ingredient channel of the first robot arm, and a second branch channel communicating with the ingredient channel of the second robot arm, and wherein the ingredient, which has passed through the common channel, is selectively fed to the first branch channel and the second branch channel by the dispenser.
2. The robot according to claim 1, wherein each of the first branch channel and the second branch channel includes: an inclined channel having an inlet formed therein, and a horizontal channel extending from the inclined channel in a horizontal direction.
3. The robot according to claim 1, wherein an inlet of each of the first branch channel and the second branch channel is located below the common channel.
4. The robot according to claim 1, wherein a horizontal length between an outlet of the first branch channel and an outlet of the second branch channel is greater than a horizontal length of the ingredient feeder.
5. The robot according to claim 1, wherein an outlet of the first branch channel and an outlet of the second branch channel face in opposite directions.
6. The robot according to claim 1, wherein the dispenser further includes a variable ingredient guide configured to enable the first branch channel and the second branch channel to selectively communicate with the common channel and guide the ingredient, which has passed through the common channel, to the first branch channel or the second branch channel.
7. The robot according to claim 6, wherein the variable ingredient guide includes: a guide plate configured to block any one of the first branch channel or the second branch channel and guide the ingredient dropped from the common channel to the other of the first branch channel or the second branch channel, and a rotator configured to rotate the guide plate.
8. The robot according to claim 7, wherein the dispenser further includes a center guide located below the common channel and having a first inclined surface and a second inclined surface formed therein, the first inclined surface and the second inclined surface guiding the ingredient dropped from the common channel in opposite directions.
9. The robot according to claim 8, wherein the guide plate is rotatably disposed above the center guide.
10. The robot according to claim 7, wherein the rotator rotates the guide plate in an obtuse angle range.
11. The robot according to claim 1, wherein the first branch channel and the second branch channel are connected via a center connector, and wherein an assembly of the first branch channel, the second branch channel and the center connector is movably disposed in the robot body.
12. The robot according to claim 11, comprising a mover configured to move the assembly to a first position where the first branch channel communicates with the common channel or a second position where the second branch channel communicates with the common channel.
13. The robot according to claim 11, wherein the mover is connected to the first branch channel or the second branch channel.
14. The robot according to claim 1, further comprising: a water tank disposed in the robot body; and a pump configured to pump water of the water tank to the ingredient feeder.
15. The robot according to claim 1, further comprising a battery disposed in the robot body.
16. The robot according to claim 1, further comprising a driving wheel disposed below the robot body.
17. The robot according to claim 1, wherein the ingredient feeder further includes a blower configured to feed a solid ingredient to the common channel.
18. The robot according to claim 17, wherein a cross-sectional area of each of the first branch channel and the second branch channel is less than a cross-sectional area of the common channel.
19. A method of controlling a robot including an ingredient feeder installed in a robot body to feed an ingredient, first and second robot arms connected to the robot body and each having formed therein an ingredient channel, through which the ingredient passes, and a dispenser configured to dispense the ingredient received from the ingredient feeder to the first and second robot arms, the method comprising: processing different types of first and second ingredients by the ingredient feeder; guiding the first ingredient to the ingredient channel of the first robot arm; and guiding the second ingredient to the ingredient channel of the second robot arm.
20. A method of controlling a robot including an ingredient feeder installed in a robot body to feed an ingredient, first and second robot arms connected to the robot body and each having formed therein an ingredient channel, through which the ingredient passes, and a dispenser configured to dispense the ingredient received from the ingredient feeder to the first and second robot arms, the method comprising: processing the ingredient by the ingredient feeder; and performing cooking operation by any one of the first robot arm or the second robot arm and guiding the ingredient to the other of the first robot arm or the second robot arm.
</claims>
</document>
