<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,H04N21/2187,H04N21/231,H04N21/234,H04N21/266,H04N21/278,H04N21/422,H04N21/4223,H04N21/431,H04N21/44,H04N21/466,H04N21/482,H04N21/80,H04N21/81,H04N21/84
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CLARIFAI
</assignee>

<inventors>
KANTOR, DANIEL
ZEILER, MATTHEW D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61685947
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTION MODEL TRAINING VIA LIVE STREAM CONCEPT ASSOCIATION
</title>

<abstract>
In certain embodiments, training of a neural network or other prediction model may be facilitated via live stream concept association. In some embodiments, a live video stream may be loaded on a user interface for presentation to a user. A user selection related to a frame of the live video stream may be received via the user interface during the presentation of the live video stream on the user interface, where the user selection indicates a presence of a concept in the frame of the live video stream. In response to the user selection related to the frame, an association of at least a portion of the frame of the live video stream and the concept may be generated, and the neural network or other prediction model may be trained based on the association of at least the portion of the frame with the concept.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for training a neural network via live stream concept association, the system comprising: a computer system that comprises one or more processors programmed with computer program instructions that, when executed, cause the computer system to: receive, via a user interface, at least a portion of a live video stream, the user interface loading the live video stream on the user interface for presentation to a user; receive, via the user interface, a user selection related to a first frame of the live video stream during the presentation of the live video stream on the user interface, the user selection indicating a presence of a concept in the first frame of the live video stream; determine a positive association of at least a portion of the first frame of the live video stream with the concept responsive to the user selection related to the first frame; and determine a negative association of at least a portion of a second frame of the live video stream with the concept responsive to an absence of at least one user selection related to the second frame during the presentation of the live video stream on the user interface, the absence of the at least one user selection indicating an absence of the concept in the second frame of the live video stream, wherein the neural network is trained based on the positive association of at least the portion of the first frame with the concept and the negative association of at least the portion of the second frame with the concept.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer system is caused to: receive, via the user interface, another user selection related to a third frame of the live video stream during the presentation of the live video stream on the user interface, the other user selection indicating a presence of the concept in the third frame of the live video stream; and determine a positive association of at least a portion of the third frame of the live video stream with the concept responsive to the other user selection related to the third frame, wherein the neural network is trained based on the positive association of at least the portion of the third frame with the concept.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer system is caused to: receive, via the user interface, another user selection related to a third frame of the live video stream during the presentation of the live video stream on the user interface, the other user selection indicating a presence of another concept in the third frame of the live video stream; and determine an association of at least a portion of the third frame of the live video stream with the other concept responsive to the other user selection related to the third frame, wherein the neural network is trained based on the positive association of at least the portion of the third frame with the other concept.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer system is caused to: determine a pressure level applied by the user on the user interface during the user selection related to the first frame; and determine a confidence value for the presence of the concept in the first frame of the live video stream based on the determined pressure level, wherein the neural network is trained based on the determined confidence value.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the confidence value is directly proportional to the pressure level.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the user selection is based on at least one of a voice instruction from the user, a visual instruction from the user, or a touch instruction from the user.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer system is caused to: receive, via the user interface, a user instruction to rewind the live video stream to supplement or modify the positive association of at least the portion of the first frame with the concept; receive, via the user interface, a subsequent user selection related to the first frame of the live video stream, the subsequent user selection indicating a presence of another concept in the first frame of the live video stream; and determine a positive association of at least the portion of the first frame of the live video stream with the other concept responsive to the subsequent user selection related to the first frame, wherein the neural network is trained based on the positive association of at least the portion of the first frame with the other concept.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer system is caused to: transmit the trained neural network to another system to allow the other system to predict concepts relating to another live video stream.
9. The system of claim 1, the system further comprising: a camera that captures the live video stream.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer system is caused to: receive, via the user interface, at least a portion of a frame of another live video stream, the user interface loading the other live video stream for presentation to a user; predict a concept in the frame in the other live video stream based on the trained neural network; and cause the predicted concept to be displayed on the user interface during the presentation of the other live video stream.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer system is caused to: process, via the neural network, one or more portions of the live video stream to generate a set of predicted concepts, the set of predicted concepts comprising one or more predicted concepts; and cause the one or more predicted concepts to be displayed on the user interface during the presentation of the live video stream, wherein receiving the user selection related to the first frame comprises receiving the user selection of the concept from among the one or more predicted concepts displayed on the user interface.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the computer system is caused to: dynamically update the set of predicted concepts displayed on the user interface.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer system is caused to: receive the user selection via a button displayed on the user interface, the button corresponding to the concept.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer system is caused to: receive, via the user interface, metadata related to the first frame of the live video stream during the presentation of the live video stream on the user interface, the metadata describing the concept in the first frame of the live video stream; and determine a positive association of at least the portion of the first frame with the concept and the metadata, wherein the neural network is trained based on the positive association of at least the portion of the first frame with the concept and the metadata.
15. A method for training a prediction model via live stream concept association, the method being implemented by a computer system that comprises one or more processors executing computer program instructions that, when executed, perform the method, the method comprising: receiving, via a user interface, at least a portion of a live video stream, the user interface loading the live video stream on the user interface for presentation to a user; receiving, via the user interface, a user selection related to a first frame of the live video stream during the presentation of the live video stream on the user interface, the user selection indicating a presence of a concept in the first frame of the live video stream; determining a positive association of at least a portion of the first frame of the live video stream with the concept responsive to the user selection related to the first frame; and determining a negative association of at least a portion of a second frame of the live video stream with the concept responsive to an absence of at least one user selection related to the second frame during the presentation of the live video stream on the user interface, the absence of the at least one user selection indicating an absence of the concept in the second frame of the live video stream, wherein the prediction model is trained based on the positive association of at least the portion of the first frame with the concept and the negative association of at least the portion of the second frame with the concept.
16. The method of claim 15, the method further comprising: receiving, via the user interface, metadata related to the first frame of the live video stream during the presentation of the live video stream on the user interface, the metadata describing the concept in the first frame of the live video stream; and determining a positive association of at least the portion of the first frame with the concept and the metadata, wherein the prediction model is trained based on the positive association of at least the portion of the first frame with the concept and the metadata.
17. The method of claim 15, the method further comprising: determining a pressure level applied by the user on the user interface during the user selection related to the first frame, and determining a confidence value for the presence of the concept in the first frame of the live video stream based on the determined pressure level, wherein the prediction model is trained based on the determined confidence value.
18. The method of claim 15, the method further comprising: processing, via the prediction model, one or more portions of the live video stream to generate a set of predicted concepts, the set of predicted concepts comprising one or more predicted concepts; and causing the one or more predicted concepts to be displayed on the user interface during the presentation of the live video stream, wherein receiving the user selection related to the first frame comprises receiving the user selection of the concept from among the one or more predicted concepts.
19. The method of claim 15, the method further comprising: receiving the user selection via a button displayed on the user interface, the button corresponding to the concept.
20. A system for training a prediction model via live stream concept association, the system comprising: a computer system that comprises one or more processors programmed with computer program instructions that, when executed, cause the computer system to: receive, via a user interface, at least a portion of a live video stream, the user interface loading the live video stream on the user interface for presentation to a user; receive, via the user interface, a user selection related to a first frame of the live video stream during the presentation of the live video stream on the user interface, the user selection indicating a presence of a concept in the first frame of the live video stream; determine a positive association of at least a portion of the first frame of the live video stream with the concept responsive to the user selection related to the first frame; and determine a negative association of at least a portion of a second frame of the live video stream with the concept responsive to an absence of at least one user selection related to the second frame during the presentation of the live video stream on the user interface, the absence of the at least one user selection indicating an absence of the concept in the second frame of the live video stream, wherein the prediction model is trained based on the positive association of at least the portion of the first frame with the concept and the negative association of at least the portion of the second frame with the concept.
</claims>
</document>
