<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJITSU
</assignee>

<inventors>
IWASHITA, HIROAKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67953624
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER-READABLE RECODING MEDIUM, LEARNING METHOD, PREDICTION METHOD, LEARNING APPARATUS, AND PREDICTION APPARATUS
</title>

<abstract>
A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium has stored therein a program that causes a computer to execute a process including: generating, from pieces of training data each including explanatory variables and an objective variable, a hypothesis set in which a plurality of hypotheses meeting a specific condition, each of the plurality of hypotheses being a combination of the explanatory variables, each of the pieces of training data being classified into any of the plurality of hypotheses; and performing a machine learning process to calculate a weight of each of the plurality of hypotheses included in the hypothesis set on a basis of whether each of the plurality of hypotheses includes each of the pieces of training data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium having stored therein a program that causes a computer to execute a process comprising: generating, from pieces of training data each including explanatory variables and an objective variable, a hypothesis set in which a plurality of hypotheses meeting a specific condition, each of the plurality of hypotheses being a combination of the explanatory variables, each of the pieces of training data being classified into any of the plurality of hypotheses; and performing a machine learning process to calculate a weight of each of the plurality of hypotheses included in the hypothesis set on a basis of whether each of the plurality of hypotheses includes each of the pieces of training data.
2. The non-transitory computer-readable recording medium according to claim 1, wherein the specific condition is that number of literals is equal to or smaller than a predetermined value.
3. The non-transitory computer-readable recording medium according to claim 1, wherein the specific condition is that number or a ratio of pieces of training data classified by the hypotheses is equal to or a larger than a predetermined value.
4. The non-transitory computer-readable recording medium according to claim 1, wherein the generating includes listing only combinations that meet the specific condition from among combinations of the explanatory variables as the hypotheses.
5. The non-transitory computer-readable recording medium according to claim 1, wherein the generating includes listing only combinations where number of literals is minimum out of combinations that meet the specific condition from among combinations of the explanatory variables as the hypotheses.
6. The non-transitory computer-readable recording medium according to claim 1, wherein the process further comprises: generating a prediction result of the input data using the weights, wherein the prediction result includes prediction scores each indicating accuracy of a prediction, and hypotheses associated with the prediction result.
7. A learning method executed by a computer, the learning method comprising: generating, from pieces of training data each including explanatory variables and an objective variable, a hypothesis set in which a plurality of hypotheses meeting a specific condition, each of the plurality of hypotheses being a combination of the explanatory variables, each of the pieces of training data being classified into any of the plurality of hypotheses; and performing a machine learning process to calculate a weight of each of the plurality of hypotheses included in the hypothesis set on a basis of whether each of the plurality of hypotheses includes each of the pieces of training data.
8. The learning method according to claim 7, wherein the specific condition is that number of literals is equal to or smaller than a predetermined value.
9. The learning method according to claim 7, wherein the specific condition is that number or a ratio of pieces of training data classified by the hypotheses is equal to or a larger than a predetermined value.
10. The learning method according to claim 7, wherein the generating includes listing only combinations that meet the specific condition from among combinations of the explanatory variables as the hypotheses.
11. The learning method according to claim 7, wherein the generating includes listing only combinations where number of literals is minimum out of combinations that meet the specific condition from among combinations of the explanatory variables as the hypotheses.
12. The learning method according to claim 7, wherein the method further comprises: generating a prediction result of the input data using the weights, wherein the prediction result includes prediction scores each indicating accuracy of a prediction, and hypotheses associated with the prediction result.
13. A learning apparatus comprising a memory; and a processor coupled to the memory and the processor configured to executes a process, the process comprising: generating, from pieces of training data each including explanatory variables and an objective variable, a hypothesis set in which a plurality of hypotheses meeting a specific condition, each of the plurality of hypotheses being a combination of the explanatory variables, each of the pieces of training data being classified into any of the plurality of hypotheses; and performing a machine learning process to calculate a weight of each of the plurality of hypotheses included in the hypothesis set on a basis of whether each of the plurality of hypotheses includes each of the pieces of training data.
14. The learning apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the specific condition is that number of literals is equal to or smaller than a predetermined value.
15. The learning apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the specific condition is that number or a ratio of pieces of training data classified by the hypotheses is equal to or a larger than a predetermined value.
16. The learning apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the generating includes listing only combinations that meet the specific condition from among combinations of the explanatory variables as the hypotheses.
17. The learning apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the generating includes listing only combinations where number of literals is minimum out of combinations that meet the specific condition from among combinations of the explanatory variables as the hypotheses.
18. The learning apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the process further comprises: generating a prediction result of the input data using the weights, wherein the prediction result includes prediction scores each indicating accuracy of a prediction, and hypotheses associated with the prediction result.
</claims>
</document>
