<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RED HAT
</assignee>

<inventors>
PERILLI, ALESSANDRO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68099120
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MITIGATING CYBER-ATTACKS BY AUTOMATICALLY COORDINATING RESPONSES FROM CYBER-SECURITY TOOLS
</title>

<abstract>
Cyber-attacks can be mitigated by automatically coordinating responses from cyber-security tools. For example, a cyber-security engine can include software modules created by multiple sources, each of the software modules being for integrating a respective cyber-security tool with the cyber-security engine. The cyber-security engine can use the software modules to communicate with the cyber-security tools in order to detect one or more events indicative of a cyber-attack against a computing environment. The cyber-security engine can then determine a coordinated-response strategy involving cooperation among the cyber-security tools to mitigate the cyber-attack. The cyber-security engine can transmit commands to the cyber-security tools to cause the cyber-security tools to implement the coordinated-response strategy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a processing device; and a memory device including instructions that are executable by the processing device for causing the processing device to: detect one or more events associated with a cyber-attack against a computing environment by using a plurality of software modules to communicate with a plurality of cyber-security tools; in response to detecting the one or more events, determine a coordinated-response strategy by using a machine-learning model configured to analyze characteristics of the cyber-attack and determine the coordinated-response strategy from among a plurality of coordinated-response strategies based on the characteristics of the cyber-attack, the coordinated-response strategy involving cooperation among the plurality of cyber-security tools to mitigate the cyber-attack; and transmit commands to the plurality of cyber-security tools, the commands being configured to cause the plurality of cyber-security tools to implement the coordinated-response strategy.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein each software module in the plurality of software modules has a source of creation that is different from other sources of creation associated with the other software modules in the plurality of software modules.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the coordinated-response strategy involves the plurality of cyber-security tools executing operations in a sequential order, and wherein the machine-learning model is configured to determine the sequential order of the operations based on the characteristics of the cyber-attack.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the machine-learning model includes a neural network.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory device further includes instructions that are executable by the processing device for causing the processing device to: determine that a first response-strategy was previously applied by a first cyber-security engine to mitigate the cyber-attack; determine that a second response-strategy was previously applied by a second cyber-security engine to mitigate the cyber-attack; determine that the first response-strategy is superior to the second response-strategy according to at least one predefined criterion; and based on determining that the first response-strategy is superior to the second response-strategy, train the machine-learning model to select the first response-strategy as the coordinated-response strategy rather than the second response-strategy.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the first cyber-security engine is for protecting a first network and the second cyber-security engine is for protecting a second network that is different from the first network.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory device further includes instructions that are executable by the processing device for causing the processing device to train the machine-learning model by iteratively: using the machine-learning model to analyze a particular cyber-attack and determine a candidate response-strategy for mitigating the particular cyber-attack; displaying information about the candidate response-strategy to a user via a display device; receiving user input indicating whether the candidate response-strategy is acceptable or unacceptable; and configuring one or more parameters of the machine-learning model in response to the user input.
8. A method comprising: detecting, by a processing device, one or more events associated with a cyber-attack against a computing environment by using a plurality of software modules to communicate with a plurality of cyber-security tools; in response to detecting the one or more events, determining, by the processing device, a coordinated-response strategy by using a machine-learning model configured to analyze characteristics of the cyber-attack and determine the coordinated-response strategy from among a plurality of coordinated-response strategies based on the characteristics of the cyber-attack, the coordinated-response strategy involving cooperation among the plurality of cyber-security tools to mitigate the cyber-attack; and transmitting, by the processing device, commands to the plurality of cyber-security tools, the commands being configured to cause the plurality of cyber-security tools to implement the coordinated-response strategy.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein each software module in the plurality of software modules was created by a respective source that is different from other sources that created the other software modules in the plurality of software modules.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the coordinated-response strategy involves the plurality of cyber-security tools executing operations in a sequential order, and wherein the machine-learning model determines the sequential order of the operations based on the characteristics of the cyber-attack.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the machine-learning model includes a neural network.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising: determining that a first response-strategy was previously applied by a first cyber-security engine to mitigate the cyber-attack; determining that a second response-strategy was previously applied by a second cyber-security engine to mitigate the cyber-attack; determining that the first response-strategy is superior to the second response-strategy according to at least one predefined criterion; and based on determining that the first response-strategy is superior to the second response-strategy, training the machine-learning model to select the first response-strategy as the coordinated-response strategy rather than the second response-strategy.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first cyber-security engine is for protecting a first network and the second cyber-security engine is for protecting a second network that is different from the first network.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising training the machine-learning model by iteratively: using the machine-learning model to analyze a particular cyber-attack and determine a candidate response-strategy for mitigating the particular cyber-attack; displaying information about the candidate response-strategy to a user via a display device; receiving user input indicating whether the candidate response-strategy is acceptable or unacceptable; and configuring one or more parameters of the machine-learning model in response to the user input.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising program code that is executable by a processing device for causing the processing device to: detect one or more events associated with a cyber-attack against a computing environment by using a plurality of software modules created by a plurality of sources to communicate with a plurality of cyber-security tools; in response to detecting the one or more events, determine a coordinated-response strategy involving cooperation among the plurality of cyber-security tools to mitigate the cyber-attack; and transmit commands to the plurality of cyber-security tools, the commands being configured to cause the plurality of cyber-security tools to implement the coordinated-response strategy.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, further including program code that is executable by the processing device for causing the processing device to determine the coordinated-response strategy by using a machine-learning model that is configured to analyze characteristics of the cyber-attack and determine the coordinated-response strategy from among a plurality of coordinated-response strategies based on the characteristics of the cyber-attack.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the coordinated-response strategy involves the plurality of cyber-security tools executing operations in a sequential order, and wherein the machine-learning model is configured to determine the sequential order of the operations based on the characteristics of the cyber-attack.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, further comprising program code that is executable by the processing device for causing the processing device to: determine that a first response-strategy was previously applied by a first cyber-security engine to mitigate the cyber-attack; determine that a second response-strategy was previously applied by a second cyber-security engine to mitigate the cyber-attack; determine that the first response-strategy is superior to the second response-strategy according to at least one predefined criterion; and based on determining that the first response-strategy is superior to the second response-strategy, train the machine-learning model to select the first response-strategy as the coordinated-response strategy rather than the second response-strategy.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the first cyber-security engine is for protecting a first network and the second cyber-security engine is for protecting a second network that is different from the first network.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, further comprising program code that is executable by the processing device for causing the processing device to train the machine-learning model by iteratively: using the machine-learning model to analyze a particular cyber-attack and determine a candidate response-strategy for mitigating the particular cyber-attack; displaying information about the candidate response-strategy to a user via a display device; receiving user input indicating whether the candidate response-strategy is acceptable or unacceptable; and configuring one or more parameters of the machine-learning model in response to the user input.
</claims>
</document>
