<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/18,G06F3/0482,G06N20/20,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Digital Lion, LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
Kotolyan, Aleksandr
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73456885
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTIVE MODELING AND ANALYTICS FOR PROCESSING AND DISTRIBUTING DATA TRAFFIC
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for generating and deploying a machine learning model for a real-time environment. User selected coefficients and training data are received via a graphical user interface. A first machine learning algorithm is invoked for generating a first machine learning model based on the received data. Accuracy of predictions by the first model are tested, and a determination is made that the accuracy of predictions of the first model is below a threshold value. In response to such a determination, a particular criterion is evaluated. In response to determining that the criterion is satisfied, a second machine learning algorithm is invoked for generating a second machine learning model based on the received data. The model is deployed instead of the first model for making real-time predictions based on incoming data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating and deploying a machine learning model for a real-time environment, the method comprising: receiving, via a graphical user interface, user selected coefficients and training data; invoking a first machine learning algorithm for generating a first machine learning model based on the received coefficients and training data; testing accuracy of predictions by the first machine learning model; determining that the accuracy of predictions of the first machine learning model is below a threshold value; in response to determining that the accuracy of predictions is below the threshold value, evaluating a particular criterion; in response to the particular criterion being satisfied, invoking a second machine learning algorithm for generating a second machine learning model based on the received coefficients and training data; deploying the second machine learning model instead of the first machine learning model for making real-time predictions based on incoming data; receiving the incoming data from a plurality of sources; invoking the second machine learning model for predicting a likelihood of success associated with the incoming data from a particular source of the plurality of sources; and transmitting the incoming data from the particular source to a destination in response to determining the likelihood of success.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the destination is selected from a plurality of destinations, the method further comprising: calculating values for the plurality of destinations; dynamically ranking the plurality of destinations based on the calculated values; and selecting the destination based on the ranking.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein each of the values is calculated based on predicting a likelihood of success resulting from the incoming data from the particular source being transmitted to each of the plurality of destinations.
4. The method of claim 2 further comprising: receiving a signal from the destination in response to transmitting the incoming data; in response to receiving the signal, identifying a second destination of the plurality of destinations based on the ranking; and transmitting the incoming data to the second destination.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first machine learning model is a generalized linear model (GLM) associated with a first link function.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the second machine learning model is at least one of a principal component regression or a Bayesian GLM.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the criterion is size of the training data, wherein the criterion is satisfied in response to determining that the size of the training data is below a threshold size.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the likelihood of success includes a likelihood of selling the incoming data to the destination.
9. The method of claim 1 further comprising: invoking the second machine learning model for predicting a likelihood of success associated with the incoming data from a second source of the plurality of sources; determining that the likelihood of success is below a threshold amount; and filtering out the incoming data from the second source in response to determining that the likelihood of success is below the threshold amount.
10. The method of claim 9 further comprising refraining transmitting the incoming data from the second source to the destination in response to the filtering out.
11. A system for generating and deploying a machine learning model for a real-time environment, the system comprising: processor; and memory, wherein the memory stores instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: receive, via a graphical user interface, user selected coefficients and training data; invoke a first machine learning algorithm for generating a first machine learning model based on the received coefficients and training data; test accuracy of predictions by the first machine learning model; determine that the accuracy of predictions of the first machine learning model is below a threshold value; in response to determining that the accuracy of predictions is below the threshold value, evaluate a particular criterion; in response to the particular criterion being satisfied, invoke a second machine learning algorithm for generating a second machine learning model based on the received coefficients and training data; deploy the second machine learning model instead of the first machine learning model for making real-time predictions based on incoming data; receive the incoming data from a plurality of sources; invoke the second machine learning model for predicting a likelihood of success associated with the incoming data from a particular source of the plurality of sources; and transmit the incoming data from the particular source to a destination in response to determining the likelihood of success.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the destination is selected from a plurality of destinations, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: calculate values for the plurality of destinations; dynamically rank the plurality of destinations based on the calculated values; and select the destination based on the ranking.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein each of the values is calculated based on predicting a likelihood of success resulting from the incoming data from the particular source being transmitted to each of the plurality of destinations.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: receive a signal from the destination in response to transmitting the incoming data; in response to receiving the signal, identify a second destination of the plurality of destinations based on the ranking; and transmit the incoming data to the second destination.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the first machine learning model is a generalized linear model (GLM) associated with a first link function.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the second machine learning model is at least one of a principal component regression or a Bayesian GLM.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the criterion is size of the training data, wherein the criterion is satisfied in response to determining that the size of the training data is below a threshold size.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the likelihood of success includes a likelihood of selling the incoming data to the destination.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: invoke the second machine learning model for predicting a likelihood of success associated with the incoming data from a second source of the plurality of sources; determine that the likelihood of success is below a threshold amount; and filter out the incoming data from the second source in response to determining that the likelihood of success is below the threshold amount.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to refrain transmitting the incoming data from the second source to the destination in response to the filtering out.
</claims>
</document>
