<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/11,G06T7/194,G06T7/215
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUALCOMM
</assignee>

<inventors>
REZAIIFAR, RAMIN
WILSON, SUNID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69641610
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MOTION ASSISTED IMAGE SEGMENTATION
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques and systems are provided for segmenting one or more frames. For example, incremental optical flow maps can be determined between adjacent frames of a plurality of frames. Using the incremental optical flow maps, a cumulative optical flow map can be determined between a first frame of the plurality of frames and a last frame of the plurality of frames. A segmentation mask can be determined using the first frame of the plurality of frames. Foreground pixels of the segmentation mask for the last frame of the plurality of frames can then be adjusted relative to corresponding foreground pixels for the first frame. The foreground pixels can be adjusted using the cumulative optical flow map between the first frame and the last frame of the plurality of frames.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of segmenting one or more frames, the method comprising: determining incremental optical flow maps between adjacent frames of a plurality of frames; determining a cumulative optical flow map between a first frame of the plurality of frames and a last frame of the plurality of frames, the cumulative optical flow map being determined using the incremental optical flow maps; determining a segmentation mask using the first frame of the plurality of frames; and adjusting foreground pixels of the segmentation mask for the last frame of the plurality of frames relative to corresponding foreground pixels in the first frame, the foreground pixels being adjusted using the cumulative optical flow map between the first frame and the last frame of the plurality of frames.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the incremental optical flow maps includes: obtaining a first frame, a second frame, and a third frame; determining a first optical flow map by determining optical flow vectors between pixels of the first frame and pixels of the second frame; and determining a second optical flow map by determining optical flow vectors between the pixels of the second frame and pixels of the third frame.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the cumulative optical flow map includes: determining cumulative optical flow vectors between the pixels of the first frame and the pixels of the third frame by computing a sum of the optical flow vectors between the pixels of the first frame and the pixels of the second frame and the optical flow vectors between the pixels of the second frame and the pixels of the third frame.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein an incremental optical flow map is determined between each set of adjacent frames of the plurality of frames.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein a cumulative optical flow map is determined at each frame of the plurality of frames following the second frame.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the segmentation mask is determined using a neural network trained to segment foreground pixels of a frame from background pixels of the frame.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the foreground pixels of the segmentation mask includes remapping the foreground pixels of the segmentation mask to new pixel locations, the new pixel locations being determined using optical flow vectors of the cumulative optical flow map.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the incremental optical flow maps and the cumulative optical flow map include an optical flow vector for each pixel of the plurality of frames.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising rendering an output frame, wherein foreground pixels of the output frame correspond to the adjusted foreground pixels of the segmentation mask.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein background pixels of the output frame are modified.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the foreground pixels of the output frame are modified.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising updating the cumulative optical flow map between the first frame of the plurality of frames and a current frame, wherein the updated cumulative optical flow map is used to adjust the foreground pixels of the segmentation mask for the current frame.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining an additional cumulative optical flow map between the last frame of the plurality of frames and a current frame, the additional cumulative optical flow map being used to adjust foreground pixels of an additional segmentation mask, wherein the additional segmentation mask is determined using the last frame of the plurality of frames.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: updating the cumulative optical flow map between the first frame of the plurality of frames and a current frame; and determining an additional cumulative optical flow map between the last frame of the plurality of frames and the current frame, the additional cumulative optical flow map being used to adjust foreground pixels of an additional segmentation mask, wherein the additional segmentation mask is determined using the last frame of the plurality of frames.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the cumulative optical flow map is updated and the additional cumulative optical flow map is determined in parallel for the current frame.
16. An apparatus for segmenting one or more frames, comprising: a memory configured to store data corresponding to the one or more frames; and a processor configured to: determine incremental optical flow maps between adjacent frames of a plurality of frames; determine a cumulative optical flow map between a first frame of the plurality of frames and a last frame of the plurality of frames, the cumulative optical flow map being determined using the incremental optical flow maps; determine a segmentation mask using the first frame of the plurality of frames; and adjust foreground pixels of the segmentation mask for the last frame of the plurality of frames relative to corresponding foreground pixels in the first frame, the foreground pixels being adjusted using the cumulative optical flow map between the first frame and the last frame of the plurality of frames.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein determining the incremental optical flow maps includes: obtaining a first frame, a second frame, and a third frame; determining a first optical flow map by determining optical flow vectors between pixels of the first frame and pixels of the second frame; and determining a second optical flow map by determining optical flow vectors between the pixels of the second frame and pixels of the third frame.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein determining the cumulative optical flow map includes: determining cumulative optical flow vectors between the pixels of the first frame and the pixels of the third frame by computing a sum of the optical flow vectors between the pixels of the first frame and the pixels of the second frame and the optical flow vectors between the pixels of the second frame and the pixels of the third frame.
19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein an incremental optical flow map is determined between each set of adjacent frames of the plurality of frames.
20. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein a cumulative optical flow map is determined at each frame of the plurality of frames following the second frame.
21. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the segmentation mask is determined using a neural network trained to segment foreground pixels of a frame from background pixels of the frame.
22. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein adjusting the foreground pixels of the segmentation mask includes remapping the foreground pixels of the segmentation mask to new pixel locations, the new pixel locations being determined using optical flow vectors of the cumulative optical flow map.
23. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the incremental optical flow maps and the cumulative optical flow map include an optical flow vector for each pixel of the plurality of frames.
24. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the processor is further configured to render an output frame, and wherein foreground pixels of the output frame correspond to the adjusted foreground pixels of the segmentation mask.
25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein background pixels of the output frame are modified.
26. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the foreground pixels of the output frame are modified.
27. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the processor is further configured to: update the cumulative optical flow map between the first frame of the plurality of frames and a current frame, wherein the updated cumulative optical flow map is used to adjust the foreground pixels of the segmentation mask for the current frame.
28. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine an additional cumulative optical flow map between the last frame of the plurality of frames and a current frame, the additional cumulative optical flow map being used to adjust foreground pixels of an additional segmentation mask, wherein the additional segmentation mask is determined using the last frame of the plurality of frames.
29. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the apparatus comprises a mobile device.
30. The apparatus of claim 29, further comprising one or more of a camera for capturing the one or more frames and a display for displaying one or more output frames.
</claims>
</document>
