<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B13/00,G06F16/176,G06F16/2453,G06F16/2455,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
RANGANATHAN, PARTHASARATHY
HASHEMI, MILAD OLIA
SATIJA, HARSH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64051660
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISAGGREGATING LATENT CAUSES FOR COMPUTER SYSTEM OPTIMIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for disaggregating latent causes for computer system optimization. In one aspect, a method includes accessing a data stream for data values resulting from operations performed by a computer system; providing the data values as input to a data disaggregation machine learning model that generates descriptors of latent causes of the data values; providing the data values and the descriptors of the latent causes of the data values as inputs to a control system model that generates embedded representations of commands to modify the operations performed by the computer system; determining commands to modify the operations performed by the computer system based on the embedded representations of commands to modify the operations performed by the computer system; and providing the commands to the computer system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by one or more data processing apparatus, the method comprising, at each of a plurality of time steps: accessing a data stream to obtain one or more data values corresponding to the time step that result from operations performed by a computer system of one or more computers, the data values being descriptive of the operations performed by the computer system; providing the data values corresponding to the time step as input to a data disaggregation machine learning model that generates, based on the data values, a compressed representation of the data values corresponding to the time step; providing: (i) the data values corresponding to the time step, and (ii) the compressed representation of the data values corresponding to the time step, as an input to a control system model that generates an output specifying commands to modify the operations performed by the computer system; and providing the commands specified by the output of the control system model to the computer system.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising training the data disaggregation machine learning model using log data that stores data values resulting from operations previously performed by the computer system.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising training the data disaggregation machine learning model using data values from the data stream, and wherein accessing the data stream comprises receiving the data stream from the computer system.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the data disaggregation machine learning model is at least partially implemented in hardware.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the data disaggregation machine learning model comprises a variational auto-encoder.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the data values comprise program counter values, and the operations performed by the computer system include program instruction increments.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the data values comprise memory address values, and the operations performed by the computer system include memory accesses.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a performance measure of the control system model based on the data values and the outputs specifying commands to modify the operations performed by the computer system; and adjusting a set of control system model parameters based on the performance measure.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the control system model comprises a recurrent neural network.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the commands specified by the output of the control system model comprise commands to pre-fetch data stored at memory addresses.
11. A system comprising: one or more computers; and one or more storage devices communicatively coupled to the one or more computers, wherein the one or more storage devices store instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising, at each of a plurality of time steps: accessing a data stream to obtain one or more data values corresponding to the time step that result from operations performed by a computer system of one or more computers, the data values being descriptive of the operations performed by the computer system; providing the data values corresponding to the time step as input to a data disaggregation machine learning model that generates, based on the data values, a compressed representation of the data values corresponding to the time step; providing: (i) the data values corresponding to the time step, and (ii) the compressed representation of the data values corresponding to the time step, as an input to a control system model that generates an output specifying commands to modify the operations performed by the computer system; and providing the commands specified by the output of the control system model to the computer system.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise training the data disaggregation machine learning model using log data that stores data values resulting from operations previously performed by the computer system.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise training the data disaggregation machine learning model using data values from the data stream, and wherein accessing the data stream comprises receiving the data stream from the computer system.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the data disaggregation machine learning model is at least partially implemented in hardware.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the data disaggregation machine learning model comprises a variational auto-encoder.
16. One or more non-transitory computer storage media storing instructions that when executed by one or more computers cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising, at each of a plurality of time steps: accessing a data stream to obtain one or more data values corresponding to the time step that result from operations performed by a computer system of one or more computers, the data values being descriptive of the operations performed by the computer system; providing the data values corresponding to the time step as input to a data disaggregation machine learning model that generates, based on the data values, a compressed representation of the data values corresponding to the time step; providing: (i) the data values corresponding to the time step, and (ii) the compressed representation of the data values corresponding to the time step, as an input to a control system model that generates an output specifying commands to modify the operations performed by the computer system; and providing the commands specified by the output of the control system model to the computer system.
17. The non-transitory computer storage media of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise training the data disaggregation machine learning model using log data that stores data values resulting from operations previously performed by the computer system.
18. The non-transitory computer storage media of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise training the data disaggregation machine learning model using data values from the data stream, and wherein accessing the data stream comprises receiving the data stream from the computer system.
19. The non-transitory computer storage media of claim 16, wherein the data disaggregation machine learning model is at least partially implemented in hardware.
20. The non-transitory computer storage media of claim 16, wherein the data disaggregation machine learning model comprises a variational auto-encoder.
</claims>
</document>
