<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/04,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10,H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAWSON, CHRISTOPHER J
GANCI, JR., JOHN M.
MOLLOY, CHRISTOPHER L.
TRIM, CRAIG M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73231273
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT) PORTFOLIO OPTIMIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, computer program products, and systems are presented. The methods include, for instance: collecting inputs of relevant contracts and invoices from one or more information technology (IT) service systems. Information on one or more IT services and one or more IT resources corresponding to an IT service of the one or more IT services is extracted from the inputs. An IT service system provisions the IT service to an IT client by using the one or more IT resources. A capacity demand in a timeframe on an IT resource is forecasted based on the information from the extracting. A solution to procure an item that meets the forecasted capacity demand is selected and optimized IT portfolio including the item and the solution is produces to optimize an IT portfolio.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method, comprising: collecting, by one or more processor, inputs from one or more information technology (IT) service systems, wherein the inputs comprise one or more service level agreements (SLAs), one or more SLA invoices corresponding to the one or more SLAs, one or more underpinning contracts (UCs), and one or more UC invoices; extracting, by the one or more processor, information on one or more IT services and one or more IT resources corresponding to an IT service of the one or more IT services from the inputs, wherein an IT service system of the one or more IT service systems provisions the IT service to an IT client by using the one or more IT resources; forecasting, by the one or more processor, a capacity demand in a timeframe on an IT resource of the one or more IT resources based on the information from the extracting; selecting, by the one or more processor, an optimal procurement solution for an item of the IT resource that satisfies the capacity demand; and producing, by the one or more processor, an optimized IT portfolio comprising the item of the IT resource and the optimal procurement solution.
2. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: recording, in an IT portfolio, the information on the one or more IT services and the information on respective resources corresponding to each of the one or more IT services, subsequent to the extracting.
3. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: formatting, by the one or more processor, the information on an IT service of the one or more IT service according to elements for the IT service predefined in an IT portfolio ontology; and formatting, by the one or more processor, the information on an IT resource of the one or more IT resources according to element for the IT resource predefined in the IT portfolio ontology.
4. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: converting the inputs into a standard language selected by an IT service provider that runs the one or more IT service systems, based on an IT portfolio ontology prescribing respective elements for the one or more IT services and respective elements for the one or more IT resources, by use of natural language processing tools.
5. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: compiling, prior to the selecting, all available procurement solution for the item of the IT resource meeting the capacity demand from the forecasting based on multiple specifications by one or more IT resource supplier of the IT resource.
6. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: updating, subsequent to the producing, an IT portfolio with the optimized IT portfolio; and adding the optimized IT portfolio to an optimization history for training a machine learning model on the capacity demand in the forecasting.
7. The computer implemented method of claim 6, further comprising: removing the optimized IT portfolio from the optimization history based on that the IT service system implemented by the optimized IT portfolio performs worse than a preconfigured performance threshold.
8. A computer program product comprising: a computer readable storage medium readable by one or more processor and storing instructions for execution by the one or more processor for performing a method comprising: collecting inputs from one or more information technology (IT) service systems, wherein the inputs comprise one or more service level agreements (SLAs), one or more SLA invoices corresponding to the one or more SLAs, one or more underpinning contracts (UCs), and one or more UC invoices; extracting information on one or more IT services and one or more IT resources corresponding to an IT service of the one or more IT services from the inputs, wherein an IT service system of the one or more IT service systems provisions the IT service to an IT client by using the one or more IT resources; forecasting a capacity demand in a timeframe on an IT resource of the one or more IT resources based on the information from the extracting; selecting an optimal procurement solution for an item of the IT resource that satisfies the capacity demand; and producing an optimized IT portfolio comprising the item of the IT resource and the optimal procurement solution.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising: recording, in an IT portfolio, the information on the one or more IT services and the information on respective resources corresponding to each of the one or more IT services, subsequent to the extracting.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising: formatting, by the one or more processor, the information on an IT service of the one or more IT service according to elements for the IT service predefined in an IT portfolio ontology; and formatting, by the one or more processor, the information on an IT resource of the one or more IT resources according to element for the IT resource predefined in the IT portfolio ontology.
11. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising: converting the inputs into a standard language selected by an IT service provider that runs the one or more IT service systems, based on an IT portfolio ontology prescribing respective elements for the one or more IT services and respective elements for the one or more IT resources, by use of natural language processing tools.
12. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising: compiling, prior to the selecting, all available procurement solution for the item of the IT resource meeting the capacity demand from the forecasting based on multiple specifications by one or more IT resource supplier of the IT resource.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising: updating, subsequent to the producing, an IT portfolio with the optimized IT portfolio; and adding the optimized IT portfolio to an optimization history for training a machine learning model on the capacity demand in the forecasting.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, further comprising: removing the optimized IT portfolio from the optimization history based on that the IT service system implemented by the optimized IT portfolio performs worse than a preconfigured performance threshold.
15. A system comprising: a memory; one or more processor in communication with memory; and program instructions executable by the one or more processor via the memory to perform a method comprising: collecting inputs from one or more information technology (IT) service systems, wherein the inputs comprise one or more service level agreements (SLAs), one or more SLA invoices corresponding to the one or more SLAs, one or more underpinning contracts (UCs), and one or more UC invoices; extracting information on one or more IT services and one or more IT resources corresponding to an IT service of the one or more IT services from the inputs, wherein an IT service system of the one or more IT service systems provisions the IT service to an IT client by using the one or more IT resources; forecasting a capacity demand in a timeframe on an IT resource of the one or more IT resources based on the information from the extracting; selecting an optimal procurement solution for an item of the IT resource that satisfies the capacity demand; and producing an optimized IT portfolio comprising the item of the IT resource and the optimal procurement solution.
16. The system of claim 15, further comprising: recording, in an IT portfolio, the information on the one or more IT services and the information on respective resources corresponding to each of the one or more IT services, subsequent to the extracting.
17. The system of claim 15, further comprising: formatting, by the one or more processor, the information on an IT service of the one or more IT service according to elements for the IT service predefined in an IT portfolio ontology; and formatting, by the one or more processor, the information on an IT resource of the one or more IT resources according to element for the IT resource predefined in the IT portfolio ontology.
18. The system of claim 15, further comprising: converting the inputs into a standard language selected by an IT service provider that runs the one or more IT service systems, based on an IT portfolio ontology prescribing respective elements for the one or more IT services and respective elements for the one or more IT resources, by use of natural language processing tools.
19. The system of claim 15, further comprising: compiling, prior to the selecting, all available procurement solution for the item of the IT resource meeting the capacity demand from the forecasting based on multiple specifications by one or more IT resource supplier of the IT resource.
20. The system of claim 15, further comprising: updating, subsequent to the producing, an IT portfolio with the optimized IT portfolio; and adding the optimized IT portfolio to an optimization history for training a machine learning model on the capacity demand in the forecasting.
</claims>
</document>
