<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01V1/30,G01V1/34,G01V3/34,G01V99/00,G06F17/15
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHEVRON CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
THORNE, JULIAN A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71608034
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR BUILDING RESERVOIR PROPERTY MODELS
</title>

<abstract>
A method is described for generating a reservoir property model based on the quality of a seismic inversion product. The method may include receiving a seismic inversion product volume, a seismic attribute volume, and well data from wells drilled in a subsurface volume of interest; identifying collocated cells in the seismic volumes which correspond to the well data; creating attribute vectors from the seismic volumes in each of the collocated cells and a range of neighboring cells; calculating a seismic inversion error magnitude property at the collocated cells; training a data analytics method to predict the observed seismic inversion error magnitude property; verifying that the data analytics method accurately predicts the seismic inversion error magnitude using cross-validation; generating an inversion quality volume; and generating the reservoir property model based on the inversion quality volume. The method may be executed by a computer system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of generating a reservoir property model, comprising: a. receiving, at a computer processor, a seismic inversion product volume and a seismic attribute volume representative of a subsurface volume of interest wherein the seismic inversion product volume and the seismic attribute volume are structured as a regular grid of cells; b. receiving, at the computer processor, well data from wells drilled in the subsurface volume of interest; c. identifying collocated cells in the seismic inversion product volume by comparing the seismic inversion product volume to the well data to match an equivalent seismic inversion property derived from the well data passing through that cell; d. creating attribute vectors from the seismic inversion product volume and the seismic attribute volume in each of the collocated cells and a range of neighboring cells; e. calculating a seismic inversion error magnitude property at the collocated cells from the difference between the seismic inversion product and the equivalent seismic inversion property derived from the well data by calculating a correlation coefficient between an average collocated seismic inversion product and the well data at the wellbore location in a moving window whose length is sufficient to calculate correlation of desired accuracy; f. training a data analytics method with a preprocessor to predict the observed seismic inversion error magnitude property from the attribute vectors at all cells in the grid; g. verifying that the data analytics method accurately predicts the seismic inversion error magnitude using cross-validation; h. generating an inversion quality volume using the prediction of seismic inversion error magnitude to assess inversion quality in each cell; and i. generating the reservoir property model based on the inversion quality volume.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising using the reservoir property model to optimize hydrocarbon production.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the calculating the seismic inversion error magnitude property further comprises calculating a correlation coefficient between the average collocated seismic inversion product and the well data at the wellbore location in a moving window whose length is sufficient to calculate correlation of desired accuracy.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the data analytics method is an inverse distance method in principal component analysis (PCA) space and wherein a number of principal components is retained based on an input variance percent cutoff and comprises: a. partitioning the retained principal components into clusters based on characteristics in principal component space; b. identifying, for each cluster, data points that have known property values based on the location and the well data; and c. interpolating data points using inverse distance weighting computed along the principal component axes.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein the partitioning the retained principal components into clusters is a K-nearest neighbor algorithm.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the cross-validation is jack-knife cross-validation.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein generating the reservoir property model uses the inversion quality to determine regions in the reservoir property model that can be based on the seismic inversion product and wherein other regions are based on stochastic modeling without use of seismic data as a constraint.
8. A computer system, comprising: one or more processors; memory; and one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the system to: a. receive, at the one or more computer processors, a seismic inversion product volume and a seismic attribute volume representative of a subsurface volume of interest wherein the seismic inversion product volume and the seismic attribute volume are structured as a regular grid of cells; b. receive, at the one or more computer processors, well data from wells drilled in the subsurface volume of interest; c. identify collocated cells in the seismic inversion product volume by comparing the seismic inversion product volume to the well data to match an equivalent seismic inversion property derived from the well data passing through that cell; d. create attribute vectors from the seismic inversion product volume and the seismic attribute volume in each of the collocated cells and a range of neighboring cells; e. calculate a seismic inversion error magnitude property at the collocated cells from the difference between the seismic inversion product and the equivalent seismic inversion property derived from the well data by calculating a correlation coefficient between an average collocated seismic inversion product and the well data at the wellbore location in a moving window whose length is sufficient to calculate correlation of desired accuracy; f. train a data analytics method with a preprocessor to predict the observed seismic inversion error magnitude property from the attribute vectors at all cells in the grid; g. verify that the data analytics method accurately predicts the seismic inversion error magnitude using cross-validation; h. generate an inversion quality volume using the prediction of seismic inversion error magnitude to assess inversion quality in each cell; and i. generate the reservoir property model based on the inversion quality volume.
9. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, which when executed by an electronic device with one or more processors and memory, cause the device to a. receive, at the one or more computer processors, a seismic inversion product volume and a seismic attribute volume representative of a subsurface volume of interest wherein the seismic inversion product volume and the seismic attribute volume are structured as a regular grid of cells; b. receive, at the one or more computer processors, well data from wells drilled in the subsurface volume of interest; c. identify collocated cells in the seismic inversion product volume by comparing the seismic inversion product volume to the well data to match an equivalent seismic inversion property derived from the well data passing through that cell; d. create attribute vectors from the seismic inversion product volume and the seismic attribute volume in each of the collocated cells and a range of neighboring cells; e. calculate a seismic inversion error magnitude property at the collocated cells from the difference between the seismic inversion product and the equivalent seismic inversion property derived from the well data by calculating a correlation coefficient between an average collocated seismic inversion product and the well data at the wellbore location in a moving window whose length is sufficient to calculate correlation of desired accuracy; f. train a data analytics method with a preprocessor to predict the observed seismic inversion error magnitude property from the attribute vectors at all cells in the grid; g. verify that the data analytics method accurately predicts the seismic inversion error magnitude using cross-validation; h. generate an inversion quality volume using the prediction of seismic inversion error magnitude to assess inversion quality in each cell; and generate the reservoir property model based on the inversion quality volume.
</claims>
</document>
