<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/00,A61B6/03,G06T11/00,G06T7/00,G16H30/40,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHMIDT, SEBASTIAN
HOFMANN, BERND
ZHAO, Yufan
MUELLER, Kerstin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72334364
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND DATA PROCESSING SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING DECISION-SUPPORTING DATA
</title>

<abstract>
A method is for providing decision-supporting data. In an embodiment, the method includes receiving photon-counting computed tomography data relating to an examination region; determining a location of a thrombus in the examination region, based on the photon-counting computed tomography data received; generating the decision-supporting data, relating to at least one of the thrombus and a vascular wall in a region of the thrombus, based on the photon-counting computed tomography data received and the location of the thrombus determined; and providing the decision-supporting data generated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for providing decision-supporting data, comprising: receiving photon-counting computed tomography data relating to an examination region; determining a location of a thrombus in the examination region, based on the photon-counting computed tomography data received; generating the decision-supporting data, relating to at least one of the thrombus and a vascular wall in a region of the thrombus, based on the photon-counting computed tomography data received and the location of the thrombus determined; and providing the decision-supporting data generated.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein a computed tomography angiographic image is generated based on the photon-counting computed tomography data, wherein the location of the thrombus in the examination region is determined based on the computed tomography angiographic image generated, and wherein the decision-supporting data, relating to at least one of the thrombus and the vascular wall in the region of the thrombus, is generated based on the computed tomography angiographic image generated.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein marking information marking the thrombus in the computed tomography angiographic image is generated based on the photon-counting computed tomography data received and the location of the thrombus determined, and wherein the computed tomography angiographic image, the marking information marking the thrombus in the computed tomography angiographic image, and the decision-supporting data are provided for simultaneous display on a screen.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the location of the thrombus is determined by being calculated, by applying a trained machine learning algorithm to at least one of the photon-counting computed tomography data and to the computed tomography angiographic image.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the decision-supporting data relates to at least one property of the thrombus, selected from at least one of a length, a diameter, a volume, a perviousness and a composition.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein a segmentation of the thrombus is calculated based on the photon-counting computed tomography data, wherein a vascular center line extending through the thrombus is calculated based on the photon-counting computed tomography data, and wherein a length of the thrombus is calculated based on the vascular center line calculated and the segmentation of the thrombus calculated.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein a flow of contrast medium penetrating the thrombus is calculated based on the photon-counting computed tomography data, and wherein a perviousness of the thrombus is calculated based on the flow of contrast medium calculated.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the decision-supporting data relates to a portion of a component in the composition of the thrombus, and wherein the component is selected from at least one of red blood corpuscles, a fibrin-platelet accumulation and calcium.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the decision-supporting data relates to a perviousness of the vascular wall in the region of the thrombus.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein a flow of contrast medium penetrating the vascular wall in the region of the thrombus is calculated based on the photon-counting computed tomography data, and wherein the perviousness of the vascular wall in the region of the thrombus is calculated based on the flow of contrast medium calculated.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein an accumulation of contrast medium that has penetrated the vascular wall in the region of the thrombus is detected based on the photon-counting computed tomography data, wherein marking information marking the accumulation of contrast medium is generated, and wherein the decision-supporting data includes the marking information marking the accumulation of contrast medium.
12. A data processing system for providing decision-supporting data, comprising: a receiving unit to receive photon-counting computed tomography data relating to an examination region; a determination unit to determine a location of a thrombus in the examination region, based on the photon-counting computed tomography data received; a generating unit to generate the decision-supporting data relating to at least one of the thrombus and a vascular wall in a region of the thrombus, based on the photon-counting computed tomography data received and on the location of the thrombus determined; and a preparation unit to prove the decision-supporting data generated.
13. A computed tomography device, comprising the data processing system of claim 12.
14. A non-transitory computer program product storing a computer program, directly loadable into a memory unit of a data processing system, including program segments to carry out the method of claim 1 when the program segments are run by the data processing system.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, storing program segments readable and executable by a data processing system, to carry out the method of claim 1 upon the program segments being run by the data processing system.
16. The method of claim 3, wherein the location of the thrombus is determined by being calculated, by applying a trained machine learning algorithm to at least one of the photon-counting computed tomography data and to the computed tomography angiographic image.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the location of the thrombus is determined by being calculated, by applying a trained machine learning algorithm to the photon-counting computed tomography data.
18. The method of claim 2, wherein the decision-supporting data relates to at least one property of the thrombus, selected from at least one of a length, a diameter, a volume, a perviousness and a composition.
19. The method of claim 6, wherein a flow of contrast medium penetrating the thrombus is calculated based on the photon-counting computed tomography data, and wherein a perviousness of the thrombus is calculated based on the flow of contrast medium calculated.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, storing program segments readable and executable by a data processing system, to carry out the method of claim 2 upon the program segments being run by the data processing system.
</claims>
</document>
