<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B3/00,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALCON
</assignee>

<inventors>
SARANGAPANI, RAMESH
Baker, Kevin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71092580
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR USING MACHINE LEARNING TO PREDICT CONTACT LENS COMPATIBILITY
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for determining a compatibility between a multi-focal contact lens and a patient seeking presbyopia vision correction include receiving, from a first device associated with a first eye-care professional (ECP), a request for selecting a contact lens for a consumer, wherein the request comprises biometric information associated with the consumer; obtaining a performance metric associated with the first ECP; determining, using the machine learning model and based on the performance metric, a customized compatibility index indicating a compatibility between a particular contact lens and the consumer for the first ECP; and presenting a report indicating the compatibility index on the first device. Additional systems, methods, and non-transitory machine-readable mediums are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a non-transitory memory; and one or more hardware processors coupled with the non-transitory memory and configured to read instructions from the non-transitory memory to cause the system to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a first device associated with a first eye-care professional (ECP), a request for selecting a contact lens for a consumer, wherein the request comprises biometric information associated with the consumer; obtaining a performance metric associated with the first ECP; determining, using the machine learning model and based on the performance metric, a customized compatibility index indicating a compatibility between a particular contact lens and the consumer for the first ECP; and presenting a report indicating the compatibility index on the first device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the performance metric represents relative compatibilities between contact lenses and first consumers associated with the first ECP with respect to compatibilities between contact lenses and second consumers associated with at least a second ECP.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining the compatibility index comprises: generating, using the machine learning model, a compatibility score based on the biometric information; and identifying, from a plurality of compatibility indexes, the customized compatibility index for the first ECP based on the compatibility score and the performance metric associated with the first ECP.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the plurality of compatibility indexes corresponds to distinct compatibility score ranges, wherein the determining the compatibility index further comprises: adjusting the distinct compatibility score ranges based on the performance metric to generate customized compatibility score ranges for the first ECP, wherein the identifying is further based on the customized compatibility score ranges corresponding to the plurality of compatibility indexes.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the compatibility score represents at last a predicted vision quality of the consumer using the contact lens.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the predicted vision quality comprises a predicted distance vision quality, a predicted near vision quality, and a predicted intermediate vision quality.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the biometric information comprises an arm length of the consumer.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the report includes statistics of vision qualities of consumers using the contact lens.
9. A method, comprising: receiving, by one or more hardware processors from a first device associated with a first eye-care professional (ECP), a request for determining a compatibility between a particular lens and a patient, wherein the request comprises attributes associated with the patient; comparing, by the one or more hardware processors, performance information associated with the first ECP against performance information associated with at least a second ECP; determining, by the one or more hardware processors, a performance metric associated with the first ECP based on the comparing; selecting, by the one or more hardware processors from a plurality of compatibility indexes and based on the attributes associated with the patient, a particular compatibility index representing a degree of compatibility between the particular lens and the patient, wherein the compatibility index is customized for the first ECP based at least in part on the performance metric associated with the first ECP; and presenting, by the one or more hardware processors, a report indicating the particular compatibility index on the first device.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising providing a vision simulation to the patient, wherein the vision simulation simulates a vision of using the particular lens.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising obtaining biometric data of the patient while the vision simulation is provided to the patient, wherein the particular compatibility index is selected further based on the biometric data obtained from the patient.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the performance information associated with the first ECP comprises vision quality data of patients for whom the first ECP has prescribed the particular lens.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the attributes associated with the patient comprises at least one of an age, an eye dryness index, a frequency of computer usage, an arm length of the user, a motivation of the patient, whether the patient has red eye issues, current prescription data, or eye measurement data.
14. A non-transitory machine-readable medium having stored thereon machine-readable instructions executable to cause a machine to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a first device associated with a first eye-care professional (ECP), a request for selecting a contact lens for a consumer, wherein the request comprises biometric information associated with the consumer; obtaining a performance metric associated with the first ECP; determining, using the machine learning model and based on the performance metric, a customized compatibility index indicating a compatibility between a particular contact lens and the consumer for the first ECP; and presenting a report indicating the compatibility index on the first device.
15. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: obtaining vision quality data of the patient using the particular contact lens; and using the biometric information and the vision quality data to further train the machine learning model.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: obtaining biometric data and vision quality data associated with a plurality of consumers from at least a second device associated with a second ECP; and training the machine learning model using the obtained biometric data and the vision quality data.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the performance metric represents a comparison between compatibilities between contact lenses and first consumers associated with the first ECP and compatibilities between contact lenses and second consumers associated with at least a second ECP.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the determining the compatibility index comprises: generating, using the machine learning model, a compatibility score based on the biometric information; and identifying, from a plurality of compatibility indexes, the customized compatibility index for the first ECP based on the compatibility score and the performance metric associated with the first ECP.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the plurality of compatibility indexes corresponds to distinct compatibility score ranges, wherein the determining the compatibility index further comprises: adjusting the distinct compatibility score ranges based on the performance metric to generate customized compatibility score ranges for the first ECP, wherein the identifying is further based on the customized compatibility score ranges corresponding to the plurality of compatibility indexes.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the compatibility score represents a predicted comfort level of the consumer using the contact lens.
</claims>
</document>
