<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2452,G06F16/2457,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOTAN-COHEN, DIKLA
PRINESS, IDO
SOMECH, HAIM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69743955
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTUITIVE VOICE SEARCH
</title>

<abstract>
Technologies described herein improve voice-based interaction technology and provide improved user experiences for computer-performed searching within voice-based applications. After receiving a voice command that involves performing a search operation in order to respond to the command, a more intuitive response may be generated and presented to the user. In particular, certain features or properties related to the search results are determined and utilized as discriminators. A discriminator may be provided in the response to the user to enable the user to distinguish between multiple search results, or to more readily confirm a particular result, provided by the computing system. In some instances, certain details of the search results may be omitted when generating the response. In this way, the computing system may present the user with a limited but more focused set of information that is more useful for making a decision and/or continuing the interaction with the computing system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computerized method to improve a voice-based interaction between a user and a computing system, comprising: receiving search results information; determining, from the search results information, at least a first search-result entity, a second search-result entity, and a first set of features characterizing the first search-result entity; based on the first set of features, determining a discriminator characterizing an aspect of the first search-result entity that differentiates the first search-result entity from the second search-result entity; determining a subset of features, from the first set of features, that do not differentiate between the first search-result entity and the second search-result entity; generating a response that includes at least the first search-result entity, an indication of the discriminator, and excludes the subset of the set of features that do not differentiate between the first search-result entity and the second search-result entity; and providing the generated response.
2. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the search results information is received from a search operation performed in response to a user request.
3. The computerized method of claim 1, further comprising: determining from the search results information, a second set of features characterizing the second search-result entity; and wherein determining the discriminator comprises performing a similarity comparison between a first feature from the first set of features and a second feature from the second set of features.
4. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the discriminator comprises a personal feature or a global feature.
5. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the discriminator comprises a personal feature that is determined by performing a searching operation on current or historical user data for the user.
6. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the search results information includes an indication of a search domain, and wherein the first set of features characterizing the first search-result entity are determined based on the search domain.
7. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the generated response further includes the second search-result entity.
8. The computerized method of claim 7, wherein the indication of the discriminator comprises information that indicates the aspect of the first search-result entity that is different than the aspect of the second search-result entity.
9. The computerized method of claim 1, further comprising modifying the discriminator to be personalized to the user, thereby creating a personalized discriminator, and including, in the generated response, an indication of the personalized discriminator.
10. The computerized method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving user feedback; based on the user feedback and the search results information, determining a second discriminator characterizing a second aspect of the first search-result entity that differentiates the first search-result entity from the second search-result entity; and generating and providing a second response, the second response including at least an indication of the second discriminator.
11. The computerized method of claim 1, further comprising receiving user feedback; and wherein determining the discriminator comprises utilizing an adaptive model that is updated based on the user feedback.
12. The computerized method of claim 1, further comprising receiving from the user an answer to the provided response, the answer indicating the first search-result entity or the second search-result entity.
13. A computing device for conducting voice-based interaction between a user and the computing device, comprising: an acoustic speaker; one or more processors; and computer storage memory having computer-executable instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the processor, implement a method comprising: receiving search results information including at least a first search-result entity and a second search-result entity; determining a discriminator, the discriminator characterizing a first aspect of the first search-result entity that is different than the first aspect of the second search-result entity; generating a message comprising at least an indication of the discriminator; and utilizing the acoustic speaker to provide the generated message to the user.
14. The computing device of claim 13, wherein the message further comprises the first search result entity.
15. The computing device of claim 13, further comprising a microphone, and the method further comprising: receiving, using the microphone, a spoken user command; and in response to the user command, performing a first searching operation; wherein the search results information are received from the first searching operation; and wherein the provided message is a response by the computing system to the spoken user command.
16. The computing device of claim 13, the method further comprising receiving from the user a response to the provided message, the response indicating the first search-result entity or the second search-result entity, and based on the user response, performing an action associated with the particular search-result entity indicated by the user's response.
17. The computing device of claim 13, further comprising modifying the discriminator to be personalized to the user, thereby creating a personalized discriminator, and including, in the generated message, an indication of the personalized discriminator.
18. The computing device of claim 13, wherein the discriminator comprises a personal feature that is determined by performing a searching operation on current or historical user data for the user.
19. Computer-storage media having computer-executable instructions stored thereon, which when executed by one or more processors perform a method to facilitate a voice-based interactive session between a user and a computing system, the method comprising: receiving information comprising an indication of a first entity and an indication of a second entity; based on the received information, determining difference between a first characteristic characterizing the first entity and the first characteristic characterizing the second entity; generating a message that includes an indication of the difference between the first characteristic of the first entity and the first characteristic of the second entity; and causing the message to be presented.
20. The computer-storage media of claim 19, the method further comprising receiving from the user a response to the provided message, the response indicating the first entity or the second entity, and based on the user response causing to be performed, an action associated with the particular entity indicated by the user's response.
</claims>
</document>
