<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R29/08,G01R29/10,H01Q17/00,H04B17/00,H04B17/29
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
T-MOBILE USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
DESAI, CHIRAG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71403861
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC CONFIGURATION OF A TEST CHAMBER FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A method for the dynamic configuration of a test chamber for wireless communications is provided. The method includes identifying a current test project to be performed on a test device. The test device is disposed within a test chamber for evaluating one or more interactions of the test device with a wireless communication network. The method also includes determining a test configuration of a wireless connection interface of the test chamber based on the identified current test project and then sending a control signal to the wireless connection interface to set the wireless connection interface to the test configuration. In operation, the test configuration of the wireless connection interface controls which of a plurality of wireless signals of the wireless communication network are emitted within an interior the test chamber.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: identifying a current test project to be performed on a test device disposed within a test chamber for evaluating one or more interactions of the test device with a wireless communication network; determining a test configuration of a wireless connection interface of the test chamber based on the current test project; and sending a control signal to the wireless connection interface to set the wireless connection interface to the test configuration, wherein the test configuration of the wireless connection interface controls which of a plurality of wireless signals of the wireless communication network are emitted within an interior the test chamber.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein identifying the current test project comprises: obtaining an identity of a tester who will be performing the current test project; and querying a data store to determine one or more test projects associated with the tester based on the identity.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein obtaining the identity of the tester comprises receiving a user ID of the tester or obtaining a biometric identifier of the tester.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining an efficacy of the current test project based on one or more other test projects currently being performed or scheduled to be performed in one or more other test chambers; and providing a recommendation of another test project to perform on the test device in lieu of the current test project based on the efficacy.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining an efficacy of the current test project based on a current or future operational status of the wireless communication network; and providing a recommendation of another test project to perform on the test device in lieu of the current test project based on the efficacy.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the current test project includes at least one test case that includes a sequence of one or more tests to perform with the test device and the wireless communication network, the method further comprising: applying one or more machine learning techniques to a data store of other test projects to identify one or more additional test cases to include in the current test project.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a network test configuration of at least one component of the wireless communication network based on the current test project; and sending a network control signal to the at least one component to change at least one parameter of the at least one component based on the network test configuration.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: performing at least a portion of the current test project for evaluating the one or more interactions of the test device with the wireless communication network; and sending another control signal to the wireless connection interface to switch the wireless connection interface from the test configuration to a default configuration in response to determining that the current test project has completed or ceased.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: performing at least a portion of the current test project for evaluating the one or more interactions of the test device with the wireless communication network; and receiving one or more results of the current test project.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: applying one or more machine learning techniques to the one or more results to identify one or more additional test cases to include in the current test project.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving a request for information from a requesting device, wherein the request for information includes at least one indication of: (1) a technology utilized by the wireless communication network, (2) a development program of a mobile network operator (MNO) of the wireless communication network, (3) one or more hardware components of the test device, (4) one or more hardware components of the wireless communication network, or (5) a project ID of the current test project; querying a datastore based on the indication included in the request to obtain the one or more results of the test project; formatting the one or more results according to a standard model to obtain a standard-formatted report that includes the one or more results; and forwarding the standard-formatted report to the requesting device.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein performing the current test project comprises the test device exchanging one or more messages with the wireless communication network via the wireless connection interface.
13. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions, which when executed by at least one processor, direct the at least one processor to: identify a current test project to be performed on a test device disposed within a test chamber for evaluating one or more interactions of the test device with a wireless communication network; determine a test configuration of a wireless connection interface of the test chamber based on the current test project; and send a control signal to the wireless connection interface to set the wireless connection interface to the test configuration, wherein the test configuration of the wireless connection interface controls which of a plurality of wireless signals of the wireless communication network are emitted within an interior of the test chamber.
14. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 13, wherein the computer-executable instructions further direct the at least one processor to: obtain an identity of a tester who will be performing the current test project, wherein the instructions to obtain the identity of the tester includes instructions to receive a user ID of the tester or receive a biometric identifier of the tester; and query a data store to determine one or more test projects associated with the tester based on the identity.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 13, wherein the computer-executable instructions further direct the at least one processor to: determine an efficacy of the current test project based on one or more other test projects currently being performed or scheduled to be performed in one or more other test chambers; and provide a recommendation of another test project to perform on the test device in lieu of the current test project based on the efficacy.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 13, wherein the computer-executable instructions further direct the at least one processor to: determine an efficacy of the current test project based on a current or future operational status of the wireless communication network; and provide a recommendation of another test project to perform on the test device in lieu of the current test project based on the efficacy.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 13, wherein the current test project includes at least one test case that includes a sequence of one or more tests to perform with the test device and the wireless communication network, wherein the computer-executable instructions further direct the at least one processor to: apply one or more machine learning techniques to a data store of other test projects to identify one or more additional test cases to include in the current test project.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 13, wherein the computer-executable instructions further direct the at least one processor to: determine a network test configuration of at least one component of the wireless communication network based on the current test project; and send a network control signal to the at least one component to change at least one parameter of the at least one component based on the network test configuration.
19. A computing device, comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory coupled to the at least one processor, the at least one memory having instructions stored therein, which when executed by the at least one processor, direct the computing device to: identify a current test project to be performed on a test device disposed within a test chamber for evaluating one or more interactions of the test device with a wireless communication network; determine a test configuration of a wireless connection interface of the test chamber based on the current test project; and send a control signal to the wireless connection interface to set the wireless connection interface to the test configuration, wherein the test configuration of the wireless connection interface controls which of a plurality of wireless signals of the wireless communication network are emitted within an interior the test chamber.
20. The computing device of claim 19, wherein the instructions further direct the computing device to: determine an efficacy of the current test project based at least on one of: (a) one or more other test projects currently being performed in one or more other test chambers; (b) one or more other test projects scheduled to be performed in the one or more other test chambers; (c) a current operational status of the wireless communication network; or (d) a future operational status of the wireless communication network; and provide a recommendation of another test project to perform on the test device in lieu of the current test project based on the efficacy.
</claims>
</document>
