<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/10,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEC CORPORATION
AIST (NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ADVANCED INDUSTRIAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY) METI
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAJIHARA, TAKAFUMI
YAMAZAKI, KEISUKE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65994734
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PARAMETER ESTIMATION SYSTEM, PARAMETER ESTIMATION METHOD, AND PARAMETER ESTIMATION PROGRAM RECORDING MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A first sample acquisition unit acquires a parameter sample from a prior distribution. A function execution unit acquires data from a distribution by supplying the sample to a function. A degree-of-similarity calculation unit calculates the degree of similarity between the data and correct data using a kernel function. A kernel mean construction unit constructs a kernel mean of a posterior distribution from the degree of similarity, the sample, and the kernel function. A second sample acquisition unit acquires a new parameter sample from the kernel mean and the kernel function. A sample evaluation unit determines whether the difference between new data obtained by supplying one sample selected from the new samples to the function and the correct data is less than a prescribed threshold value. When it is determined that the difference is less than the prescribed threshold value, the sample evaluation unit estimates the selected sample as a parameter. The present invention enables estimation of a high-dimensional parameter of the function, thus making it possible to reduce calculation time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A parameter estimation system for estimating a parameter θ of a function for producing data y, comprising a machine learning device for determining, by repetitive learning, the parameter θ to be set to the function, wherein the machine learning device comprising: a first sample acquisition unit configured to acquire N (where N represents an integer which is not less than two) samples θi (1≤i≤N) of the parameter θ from a prior distribution P; a function execution unit configured to acquire N data yi from the function by successively supplying the N samples θi to the function, respectively; a degree-of-similarity calculation unit configured to calculate N degrees of similarity wi between the N data yi and correct data y* using a kernel function k; a kernel mean construction unit configured to construct a kernel mean μ of a posterior distribution based on the N degrees of similarity wi, the N samples θi, and the kernel function k; a second sample acquisition unit configured to acquire T (where T represents an integer which is not less than two) new samples θt (1≤t≤T) of the parameter θ based on the kernel mean μ and the kernel function k; and a sample evaluation unit configured to determine whether a difference ∥yk−y*∥ between new data yk and the correct data y* is less than a predetermined threshold value ε, the new data yk being obtained from the function by supplying the function with one sample θk selected from the T new samples θt; wherein the sample evaluation unit estimates and produces the selected sample θk as the parameter θ when it is determined that the difference ∥yk−y*∥ is less than the predetermined threshold value ε.
2. The parameter estimation system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first sample acquisition unit is configured to acquire the N samples θi while adjusting a hyper parameter η of the prior distribution P.
3. The parameter estimation system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the degree-of-similarity calculation unit comprises a Kernel ABC execution unit configured to calculate the N degrees of similarity wi by means of a Kernel ABC algorithm.
4. The parameter estimation system as claimed in claim 3, wherein the Kernel ABC execution unit is configured to calculate the N degrees of similarity wi between the N data yi and the correct data y* using the kernel function k, a Gram matrix G, and a regularization term δ.
5. The parameter estimation system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the kernel mean construction unit is configured to readjust a weight based on the N samples θi using the N degrees of similarity wi and the kernel function k and to construct the kernel mean μ representing a probability distribution on a reproducing kernel Hilbert space.
6. The parameter estimation system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the second sample acquisition unit configured to perform calculation so as to minimize an error calculated between the kernel mean μ and the kernel function k, the new samples θt, and the number T of fetched samples to acquire the new samples θt.
7. The parameter estimation system as claimed in claim 1, wherein, in a case where the sample evaluation unit determines that the difference ∥yk−y*∥ is larger than the predetermined threshold value ε, the parameter estimation system repeats operations of the function execution unit, the degree-of-similarity calculation unit, the kernel mean construction unit, the second sample acquisition unit, and the sample evaluation unit.
8. The parameter estimation system as claimed in claim 2, wherein, in a case where the sample evaluation unit determines that the difference ∥yk−y*∥ is larger than the predetermined threshold value ε, the parameter estimation system repeats operations of the first sample acquisition unit, the function execution unit, the degree-of-similarity calculation unit, the kernel mean construction unit, the second sample acquisition unit, and the sample evaluation unit.
9. The parameter estimation system as claimed in claim 8, wherein, in a case where redundancy of the parameter θ is desired to be controlled prior to repeating the operations, the first sample acquisition unit is configured to adjust the hyper parameter η of the prior distribution P.
10. A parameter estimation method in a parameter estimation system for estimating a parameter θ of a function, the parameter estimation method being for determining, by repetitive learning, the parameter θ to be set to the function, from samples of the parameter θ, using the function for producing data y, the method comprising: acquiring N (where N represents an integer which is not less than two) samples θi (1≤i≤N) of the parameter θ from a prior distribution P; acquiring N data yi from the function by successively supplying the N samples θi to the function, respectively; calculating N degrees of similarity wi between the N data yi and correct data y* using a kernel function k; constructing a kernel mean μ of a posterior distribution based on the N degrees of similarity wi, the N samples θi, and the kernel function k; acquiring T (where T represents an integer which is not less than two) new samples θt (1≤t≤T) of the parameter θ based on the kernel mean μ and the kernel function k; and determining whether a difference ∥yk−y*∥ between new data yk and the correct data y* is less than a predetermined threshold value ε, the new data yk being obtained from the function by supplying the function with one sample θk selected from the T new samples θt; wherein the selected sample θk is estimated and produced as the parameter θ when it is determined that the difference ∥yk−y*∥ is less than the predetermined threshold value ε.
11. A non-transitory recoding medium recording a parameter estimation program causing, in a parameter estimation system for estimating a parameter θ of a function, a computer to determine, by repetitive learning, the parameter θ to be set to the function, from samples of the parameter θ, using the function for producing data y, wherein the parameter estimation program causes the computer to execute: a first sample acquisition step of acquiring N (where N represents an integer which is not less than two) samples θi (1≤i≤N) of the parameter θ from a prior distribution P; a function execution step of acquiring N data yi from the function by successively supplying the N samples θi to the function, respectively; a degree-of-similarity calculation step of calculating N degrees of similarity wi between the N data yi and correct data y* using a kernel function k; a kernel mean construction step of constructing a kernel mean μ of a posterior distribution based on the N degrees of similarity wi, the N samples θi, and the kernel function k; a second sample acquisition step of acquiring T (where T represents an integer which is not less than two) new samples θt (1≤t≤T) of the parameter θ based on the kernel mean μ and the kernel function k; and a sample evaluation step of determining whether a difference ∥yk−y*∥ between new data yk and the correct data y* is less than a predetermined threshold value ε, the new data yk being obtained from the function by supplying the function with one sample θk selected from the T new samples θt; wherein the sample evaluation step causes the computer to estimate and produce the selected sample θk as the parameter θ when it is determined that the difference ∥yk−y*∥ is less than the predetermined threshold value ε.
</claims>
</document>
