<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2452,G06F16/35
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Examination Management Services, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Rameriz, Rebecca
Jonassen, John
Moser, Coleen
Scales, Chinita
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72422603
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTOMATICALLY GENERATING STRUCTURED OUTPUT DOCUMENTS BASED ON STRUCTURAL RULES
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for ingesting unstructured data and generating, based on structural rules, structured output reports that are easily digestible are provided. In embodiments, unstructured data is received from at least one source. At least a portion of the unstructured data is classified into an appropriate category. A citation is selected to be included in the at least one structured report, and at least one structural rule is applied to the selected citation to determine at least one field associated with the selected citation. The structural rule defines the at least one field. Information relevant to the at least one field is identified based on the classified unstructured data, and the at least one field is populated with the information identified as relevant. The at least one structured report is generated based at least in part on the populated information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of automatically generating at least one structured report based on at least one structural rule, comprising: receiving unstructured data from at least one source; classifying at least a portion of the unstructured data into an appropriate category; selecting a citation to be included in the at least one structured report; applying the at least one structural rule to the selected citation to determine a plurality of fields associated with the selected citation, wherein the at least one structural rule defines the plurality of fields associated with the selected citation; identifying, based on the classified at least a portion of the unstructured data, information relevant to the plurality of field associated with the selected citation; populating the plurality of fields associated with the selected citation with the information identified as relevant; and generating the at least one structured report based at least in part on the populated information.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising feeding the at least one structured output report into a decision-making process.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the decision-making process includes an automated process applying at least one machine-learning algorithm.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the classifying the at least a portion of the unstructured data into the appropriate category includes applying at least one classification algorithm to the at least a portion of the unstructured data, and wherein the classification algorithm includes machine learning algorithms and/or statistical algorithms.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the classifying the at least a portion of the unstructured data into the appropriate category includes a manual classification process.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one structured report is defined by a template, and wherein the selecting the citation to be included in the at least one structured report is based on the template.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the unstructured data includes medical reports, and wherein the at least one source is at least one of: a medical provider, a clearing house, a hospital, a laboratory, a scanning services provider, an insurance providers, and an electronic heal record system.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one structured report includes at least one of: a human-readable structured report and a machine-readable structured report.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the machine-readable structured report includes an Extensible Markup Language (XML) report.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating the at least one structured report based at least in part on the populated information includes: identifying a diagnosis code in the unstructured data; determining, based on the classified at least a portion of the unstructured data, that the diagnosis code is incorrect; and determining a correct diagnosis code based on the classified at least a portion of the unstructured data.
11. A system for automatically generating at least one structured report based on at least one structural rule, comprising: an input/output device configured to receive unstructured data from at least one unstructured data source; a server configured to: receive the unstructured data from the at least one unstructured data source; classify at least a portion of the unstructured data into an appropriate category; select a citation to be included in the at least one structured report; apply the at least one structural rule to the selected citation to determine a plurality of fields associated with the selected citation, wherein the at least one structural rule defines the plurality of fields associated with the selected citation; identify, based on the classified at least a portion of the unstructured data, information relevant to the plurality of fields associated with the selected citation; populate the plurality of fields associated with the selected citation with the information identified as relevant; and generate the at least one structured report based at least in part on the populated information.
12. The system of claim 11, further comprising feeding the at least one structured output report into a decision-making process.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the decision-making process includes an automated process applying at least one machine-learning algorithm.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the classifying the at least a portion of the unstructured data into the appropriate category includes applying at least one classification algorithm to the at least a portion of the unstructured data, and wherein the classification algorithm includes machine learning algorithms and/or statistical algorithms.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the classifying the at least a portion of the unstructured data into the appropriate category includes a manual classification process.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one structured report is defined by a template, and wherein the selecting the citation to be included in the at least one structured report is based on the template.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the unstructured data includes medical reports, and wherein the at least one source is at least one of: a medical provider, a clearing house, a hospital, a laboratory, a scanning services provider, an insurance providers, and an electronic heal record system.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one structured report includes at least one of: a human-readable structured report and a machine-readable structured report.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the machine-readable structured report includes an Extensible Markup Language (XML) report.
20. A computer-based tool for automatically generating at least one structured report based on at least one structural rule, the computer-based tool including non-transitory computer readable media having stored thereon computer code which, when executed by a processor, causes a computing device to perform operations comprising: receiving unstructured data from at least one source; classifying at least a portion of the unstructured data into an appropriate category; selecting a citation to be included in the at least one structured report; applying the at least one structural rule to the selected citation to determine a plurality of fields associated with the selected citation, wherein the at least one structural rule defines the plurality of fields associated with the selected citation; identifying, based on the classified at least a portion of the unstructured data, information relevant to the plurality of fields associated with the selected citation; populating the plurality of fields associated with the selected citation with the information identified as relevant; and generating the at least one structured report based at least in part on the populated information.
</claims>
</document>
