<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B62B5/00,G06Q20/20,G07G1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ITAB SCANFLOW
</assignee>

<inventors>
MÖLLER, JOHAN
ANGENFELT, MARTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62626870
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AN AUTOMATIC IN-STORE REGISTRATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A method for registration of an article in a store having at least one article containing area (A-I) and an automatic in-store registration system (100) is provided. The method comprises: associate an accompanying moveable unit such as an article carrying device (5) with a specific registration account (130), wherein the registration account (130) is associated with a dynamic list of articles; continuously monitor the at least one article containing area (A-I) by means of a sensor arrangement (110), and detect a change in the at least one article containing area (A-I) and, in response to said detected change, identify one or more possible articles causing the change in a first identification step and save said one or more possible articles to a temporary article list; continuously monitor the article carrying device (5) by means of the sensor arrangement (110), and detect a change in or near the article carrying device (5) and in response to said detected change identify the article causing the change in a second identification step from the article identities currently included in the temporary article list, and add the article which was identified in the second identification to the dynamic list of articles of the registration account (130).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for registration of an article in a store having at least one article containing area and an associated automatic in-store registration system, wherein the method comprises: associating an accompanying moveable unit such as an article carrying device with a specific registration account, wherein the registration account is associated with a dynamic list of articles; continuously monitoring the at least one article containing area by means of a sensor arrangement, and detecting a change in the at least one article containing area and, in response to said detected change, identifying one or more possible articles causing the change in a first identification step and saving said one or more possible articles to a temporary article list; continuously monitoring the article carrying device by means of the sensor arrangement, and detecting a change in or near the article carrying device and in response to said detected change identifying the article causing the change in a second identification step from the article identities currently included in the temporary article list, and adding the article which was identified in the second identification to the dynamic list of articles of the registration account.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first identification step is performed by identifying an article by at least using information relating to the position of the change in the article containing area, wherein the position of each one of the plurality of articles arranged in the article containing area is predetermined and accessible for the automatic in-store registration system.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the first identification step is performed by reducing the total number of possible article identities using the position information of the change in the article containing area.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first identification step further comprises: determining a signature from an article; and matching the measured signature with a database storing a plurality of reference signatures, wherein each reference signature is associated with a unique article identity.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the second identification step is performed by reducing the total number of possible article identities using the information saved in the temporary article list.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the second identification step is performed by accessing the article identities saved in the temporary article list and identifying the article as one of the accessed article identities originally positioned within a predetermined distance from the article carrying device and added to the temporary article list within a predetermined time.
7. (canceled)
8. The method according to claim 4, wherein the sensor arrangement comprises at least two sensors, and wherein the method further comprises determining a measured article signature using each one of said sensors, and independently comparing each measured signatures with at least a subset of the digital reference signatures associated with the respective sensor, and combining the result of the comparison in order to determine a single uniquely identified article.
9. 9.-10. (canceled)
11. The method according to claim 1, further comprising determining a current position of said article carrying device.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the article carrying device comprises a unique identification tag and wherein the method further comprises detecting said tag by means of the sensor arrangement, and determining the position of said article carrying device.
13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: weighing the article carrying device to verify that the weight of the articles arranged therein corresponds to the articles in the dynamic list of articles of the registration account associated with said article carrying device.
14. (canceled)
15. An automatic in-store registration system in a store having at least one article containing area, the system comprising: at least one processor; at least one registration account being associated with a moveable unit such as an article carrying device; and a sensor arrangement comprising a plurality of sensors, the sensor arrangement being configured to, in a first identification step, continuously monitor the article containing area and to detect a change in the article containing area and, in response to said detected change, to transmit a first identification signal comprising information relating to one or more possible articles to the processor, and wherein the sensor arrangement is further configured to, in a second identification step, continuously monitor the article carrying device and to detect a change in or near the article carrying device and, in response to said detected change, to transmit a second identification signal comprising information relating to one or more possible articles to the processor; wherein the processor is configured to identify one or more possible articles from the first identification signal and to save said articles to a temporary article list, wherein the processor is further configured to identify one or more possible articles from the second identification signal, to determine a final article by comparing the one or more articles identified from the second identification signal with the articles stored in the dynamic article list, and to add said final article to the registration account.
16. A method for training an in-store registration system configured to identify and register articles in a store having at least one article containing area, said method comprising performing a training sequence in order to improve the accuracy of the identification of articles by: allowing a store attendant to add or remove one or more articles to or from the article containing area, scanning at least one article by a scanning device for identifying the article, registering one or more signatures of each article by means of a sensor arrangement, and adding or updating information relating to signature and the position of each article to the in-store registration system.
17. (canceled)
18. The method according to claim 16, further comprising determining the position of the article by means of the sensor arrangement itself, by associating the article position with a unique code which is scanned together with the article code, and/or by means of a position detecting unit provided at the scanning device.
19. (canceled)
20. A method for registration of an article in a store having at least one article containing area and an associated automatic in-store registration system, wherein the method comprises: associating a customer with a registration account; monitoring the movement of the customer through the store, continuously monitoring the at least one article containing area by means of a sensor arrangement, and detecting a change in the at least one article containing area and, in response to said detected change, identifying one or more possible articles causing the change in a first identification step and saving said one or more possible articles to a temporary article list, wherein, if said temporary article list includes two or more articles, positively identifying the article which caused the change in a second identification step from the articles currently included in the temporary article list; and adding the article which was positively identified in the first or second identification to the registration account.
21. The method according to claim 20, wherein the second identification step is performed by accessing the article identities saved in the temporary article list and identifying the article as one of the accessed article identities originally positioned within a predetermined distance from the customer and added to the temporary article list within a predetermined time.
22. The method according to claims 20, wherein the second identification step is performed by allowing the customer to access the temporary article list by means of an electronic device having a display, and to positively identify the final article as one of the articles stored in the temporary article list by providing manual input to said electronic device.
23. (canceled)
24. The method according to claim 20, further comprising identifying a plurality of customers, and associating two or more customers to the same registration account.
25. 25.-27. (canceled)
28. The method according to claim 20, wherein the first identification step is performed by identifying an article by at least using information relating to the position of the change in the article containing area, wherein the position of each one of the plurality of articles arranged in the article containing area is predetermined and accessible for the automatic in-store registration system.
29. The method according to claim 28, wherein the first identification step is performed by reducing the total number of possible article identities using the position information of the change in the article containing area.
30. 30.-31. (canceled)
32. An automatic in-store registration system in a store having at least one article containing area, the system comprising: at least one processor; at least one registration account being associated with a customer in the associated store; and a sensor arrangement comprising a plurality of sensors, the sensor arrangement being configured to, in a first identification step, continuously monitor the article containing area and to detect a change in the article containing area and, in response to said detected change, to transmit a first identification signal comprising information relating to one or more possible articles to the processor, wherein the sensor arrangement further is configured to continuously monitor the customer; and wherein the processor is configured to identify one or more articles from said first identification signal and to save the identified one or more articles to a temporary article list, wherein if the temporary article list includes two or more articles, the processor is configured to positively identify the article which caused the change in a second identification step from the articles currently included in the temporary article list, and to add the article being positively identified in the first or second identification step to the registration account.
</claims>
</document>
