<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G09B5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEY, KUNTAL
NAGAR, SEEMA
DWIVEDI, UTKARSH
KAKARAPARTHY, SREEKANTH L.
KUMAR, VIJAY A.
CONTRACTOR, DANISH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71516788
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMICALY UPDATING DIGITAL VISUAL CONTENT VIA AGGREGATED FEEDBACK
</title>

<abstract>
Digital teaching content ordering includes receiving, by a data processing system, digital teaching content and any corresponding annotations and content heuristic(s) from a teacher or other presenter, the digital teaching content including text and/or image(s). The data processing system monitors student gaze of the digital teaching content during a class and can cognitively skip some of the digital teaching content during the class based on the monitored student gaze and content heuristic(s). The system can also cognitively modify the digital teaching content outside of class based, in part, on the monitoring and the content heuristic(s). A hypergraph of the digital teaching content may also be received, the cognitively skipping being further based on the hypergraph, and the cognitively modifying being further based on a heat map built using the hypergraph and the student gaze.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of ordering digital teaching content, the computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a data processing system, digital teaching content and any corresponding annotations and one or more content heuristic from a teacher, wherein the digital teaching content comprises at least one of text and one or more image; monitoring, by the data processing system, student gaze of the digital teaching content during a class by a plurality of students; and cognitively skipping, by the data processing system, some of the digital teaching content during the class based on the monitoring and the one or more content heuristic.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising cognitively modifying, by the data processing system, the digital teaching content outside of class based, in part, on the monitoring and the one or more content heuristic.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the receiving further comprises receiving, by the data processing system, a hypergraph of the digital teaching content from the teacher, wherein the cognitively skipping is further based on the hypergraph, and wherein the cognitively modifying is further based on a heat map built using the hypergraph and the student gaze.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the cognitively modifying comprises at least one of generating new digital teaching content, removing some and less than all of the digital teaching content and reordering at least some of the digital teaching content.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the cognitively modifying comprises determining, by the data processing system, a level of clarity needed for one or more content of the digital teaching content using, at least in part, the one or more content heuristic.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising building, by the data processing system, one or more heat map from a sequence of gaze points of the student gaze, wherein a predetermined unit of the digital teaching content is divided into a plurality of zones, wherein the monitoring comprises tracking gaze time of the students on each of the plurality of zones, and wherein the one or more heat map reflects the gaze time.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, further comprising, prior to the cognitively skipping and the cognitively modifying, ordering, by the data processing system, the digital teaching content in descending order of attention based on the one or more heat map.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the gathering comprises using, by the data processing system, at least one camera to observe one or more student in the class and obtain the sequence of gaze points.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising using machine learning for the data processing system to improve at least one of the cognitively skipping and the cognitively modifying.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the monitoring comprises gathering, by the data processing system, a sequence of gaze points, the method further comprising building, by the data processing system, one or more heat map from the sequence of gaze points.
11. A system for ordering digital teaching content, the system comprising: a memory; and at least one processor in communication with the memory, the memory storing program code to perform a method, the method comprising: receiving, by a data processing system, digital teaching content and any corresponding annotations and one or more content heuristic from a teacher, wherein the digital teaching content comprises at least one of text and one or more image; monitoring, by the data processing system, student gaze of the digital teaching content during a class by a plurality of students; and cognitively skipping, by the data processing system, some of the digital teaching content during the class based on the monitoring and the one or more content heuristic.
12. The system of claim 11, further comprising cognitively modifying, by the data processing system, the digital teaching content outside of class based, in part, on the monitoring and the one or more content heuristic, wherein the receiving further comprises receiving, by the data processing system, a hypergraph of the digital teaching content from the teacher, wherein the cognitively skipping is further based on a heat map built using the hypergraph and the student gaze, and wherein the cognitively modifying is further based on the hypergraph and the student gaze.
13. The system of claim 12, further comprising building, by the data processing system, one or more heat map from a sequence of gaze points of the student gaze, wherein a predetermined unit of the digital teaching content is divided into a plurality of zones, wherein the monitoring comprises tracking gaze time of the students on each of the plurality of zones, and wherein the one or more heat map reflects the gaze time.
14. The system of claim 11, further comprising cognitively modifying, by the data processing system, the digital teaching content outside of class based, in part, on the monitoring and the one or more content heuristic, wherein the cognitively monitoring comprises gathering, by the data processing system, a sequence of gaze points, the method further comprising building, by the data processing system, one or more heat map from the sequence of gaze points.
15. The system of claim 11, further comprising using; cognitively modifying, by the data processing system, the digital teaching content outside of class based, in part, on the monitoring and the one or more content heuristic; and machine learning for the data processing system to improve at least one of the cognitively skipping and the cognitively modifying.
16. A computer program product for ordering digital teaching content, the computer-implemented method comprising: a storage medium readable by a processor and storing instructions for performing a method, the method comprising: receiving, by a data processing system, digital teaching content and any corresponding annotations and one or more content heuristic from a teacher, wherein the digital teaching content comprises at least one of text and one or more image; monitoring, by the data processing system, student gaze of the digital teaching content during a class by a plurality of students; and cognitively skipping, by the data processing system, some of the digital teaching content during the class based on the monitoring and the one or more content heuristic.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, further comprising cognitively modifying, by the data processing system, the digital teaching content outside of class based, in part, on the monitoring and the one or more content heuristic, wherein the receiving further comprises receiving, by the data processing system, a hypergraph of the digital teaching content from the teacher, wherein the cognitively skipping is further based on the hypergraph, and wherein the cognitively modifying is further based on a heat map built using the hypergraph and the student gaze.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, further comprising building, by the data processing system, one or more heat map from a sequence of gaze points of the student gaze, wherein a predetermined unit of the digital teaching content is divided into a plurality of zones, wherein the monitoring comprises tracking gaze time of the students on each of the plurality of zones, and wherein the one or more heat map reflects the gaze time.
19. The computer program product of claim 16, further comprising cognitively modifying, by the data processing system, the digital teaching content outside of class based, in part, on the monitoring and the one or more content heuristic, wherein the monitoring comprises gathering, by the data processing system, a sequence of gaze points, the method further comprising building, by the data processing system, one or more heat map from the sequence of gaze points.
20. The computer program product of claim 16, further comprising: cognitively modifying, by the data processing system, the digital teaching content outside of class based, in part, on the monitoring and the one or more content heuristic; and using machine learning for the data processing system to improve at least one of the cognitively skipping and the cognitively modifying.
</claims>
</document>
