<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-05-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04M1/725,H04W52/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
YANG, SHIZHENG
YU, YANHUI
XIAO, CONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57248708
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Setting Information Configuration Method, Terminal, and Server
</title>

<abstract>
A setting information configuration method, a terminal, and a server, belong to the field of information processing technologies, where the method includes obtaining an analysis result, displaying improper setting information of a user and a setting suggestion, receiving a setting instruction from the user according to the displayed improper setting information and the setting suggestion, and configuring local setting information according to the setting instruction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, implemented by an electronic device, comprising: receiving first setting information for a first function of the electronic device; analyzing the first setting information according to an improper setting information set; generating an analysis result of the first setting information, wherein the analysis result comprises improper setting information and a setting suggestion; displaying the improper setting information and the setting suggestion; receiving a user-entered setting instruction; and configuring second setting information for the first function according to the setting instruction.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the improper setting information set comprises a first preset threshold of a screen luminance, and wherein the setting suggestion comprises lowering a screen luminance value.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the improper setting information set comprises a global positioning system (GPS) enabled status, and wherein the setting suggestion comprises a GPS disabled status.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the improper setting information set comprises a wireless network enabled status, and wherein the setting suggestion comprises a wireless network disabled status.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the first setting information comprises: matching the first setting information with the improper setting information set, wherein the improper setting information set comprises a piece of the improper setting information; setting matching information as the improper setting information, wherein the matching information is between the first setting information and the improper setting information set; and querying according to a correspondence between the improper setting information and the setting suggestion, a second setting suggestion corresponding to the improper setting information.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining a recommended setting information set, wherein the recommended setting information set comprises a piece of recommended setting information; receiving an input to accept the recommended setting information set; and configuring the first setting information according to the recommended setting information set in response to the input.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: uploading the first setting information to a server; receiving a second improper setting information set from the server; and storing the second improper setting information set.
8. An electronic device comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor and configured to store programming instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the electronic device to: receive first setting information for a first function of the electronic device; analyze the first setting information according to an improper setting information set; generate an analysis result of the first setting information, wherein the analysis result comprises improper setting information and a setting suggestion; display the improper setting information and the setting suggestion; receive a user-entered setting instruction; and configure second setting information for the first function according to the setting instruction.
9. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the improper setting information set comprises a first preset threshold of a screen luminance, and wherein the setting suggestion comprises lowering a screen luminance value.
10. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the improper setting information set comprises a global positioning system (GPS) enabled status, and wherein the setting suggestion comprises a GPS disabled status.
11. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the improper setting information set comprises a wireless network enabled status, and wherein the setting suggestion comprises a wireless network disabled status.
12. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein when analyzing the first setting information, the programming instructions further cause the electronic device to: match the first setting information with the improper setting information set, wherein the improper setting information set comprises a piece of the improper setting information; set matching information as the improper setting information, wherein the matching information is between the first setting information and the improper setting information set; and query according to a correspondence between the improper setting information and the setting suggestion, a second setting suggestion corresponding to the improper setting information.
13. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the programming instructions further cause the electronic device to: obtain a recommended setting information set, wherein the recommended setting information set comprises a piece of recommended setting information; receive an input to accept the recommended setting information set; and configure the first setting information according to the recommended setting information set in response to the input.
14. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the programming instructions further cause the electronic device to: upload the first setting information to a server; receive a second improper setting information set from the server; and store the second improper setting information set.
15. A computer program product comprising computer-executable instructions for storage on a non-transitory computer-readable medium that, when executed by a processor, cause an apparatus to: receive first setting information for a first function of the apparatus; analyze the first setting information according to an improper setting information set; generate an analysis result of the first setting information, wherein the analysis result comprises improper setting information and a setting suggestion; display the improper setting information and the setting suggestion; receive a user-entered setting instruction; and configure second setting information for the first function according to the setting instruction.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the improper setting information set comprises a first preset threshold of a screen luminance, and wherein the setting suggestion comprises lowering a screen luminance value.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the improper setting information set comprises a global positioning system (GPS) enabled status, and wherein the setting suggestion comprises a GPS disabled status.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the improper setting information set comprises a wireless network enabled status, and wherein the setting suggestion comprises a wireless network disabled status.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein when analyzing the first setting information, the computer-executable instructions further cause the apparatus to: match the first setting information with the improper setting information set, wherein the improper setting information set comprises a piece of the improper setting information; set matching information as the improper setting information, wherein the matching information is between the first setting information and the improper setting information set; and query according to a correspondence between the improper setting information and the setting suggestion, a second setting suggestion corresponding to the improper setting information.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the apparatus to: obtain a recommended setting information set, wherein the recommended setting information set comprises a piece of recommended setting information; receive an input to accept the recommended setting information set; and configure the first setting information according to the recommended setting information set in response to the input.
</claims>
</document>
