<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F8/71,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROUTRAY, RAMANI
QIAO, MU
GENOT, SIMON-PIERRE
BATHEN, LUIS A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70849178
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA CENTER INCLUDING COGNITIVE AGENTS AND RELATED METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
A data center may include a software defined infrastructure in a computing environment. The data center may also include a computer readable medium having instructions which when executed by a processor cause the processor to implement cognitive agents to perform adaptive deep reinforcement learning to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based upon changes in the computing environment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data center comprising: software defined infrastructure in a computing environment; and a computer readable medium having instructions which when executed by a processor cause the processor to: map, by the processor, a state of the data center as an image; and implement, by the processor, a plurality of cognitive agents to perform adaptive deep reinforcement learning using the map to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based upon changes in the computing environment.
2. The data center of claim 1, wherein: the map comprises encoding state information comprising resource utilization, application response time, input/output (I/O) load, energy utilization and data center tickets: the computing environment comprises a respective managed environment for each cognitive agent; and each cognitive agent evaluates the respective managed environment and generates a proposed action to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based on a respective current state and respective experience.
3. The data center of claim 2, wherein each cognitive agent further evaluates the respective managed environment and generates the proposed action to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based upon a model and simulated experience, and the state information is encoded into pixels.
4. The data center of claim 3, wherein each cognitive agent further evaluates the respective managed environment and generates the proposed action to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based upon a policy function optimization, and the pixels include additional information related to the state information that is encoded as red, green and blue values.
5. The data center of claim 4, wherein the policy function optimization reduces a total cost of ownership (TCO) of the data center.
6. The data center of claim 1, wherein the changes in the computing environment comprise at least one of new workloads being added, new resources being available, or new constraints.
7. The data center of claim 1, wherein: the software defined infrastructure comprises storage resources and computing resources; and the plurality of cognitive agents comprises a storage cognitive agent and a computing cognitive agent.
8. The data center of claim 1, wherein the software defined infrastructure comprises network resources.
9. A server for a data center comprising software defined infrastructure in a computing environment, the server comprising: a processor and a memory associated therewith, the processor configured to: map a state of the data center as an image; and implement a plurality of cognitive agents to perform adaptive deep reinforcement learning using the map to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based upon changes in the computing environment.
10. The server of claim 9, wherein: the map comprises encoding state information comprising resource utilization, application response time, input/output (I/O) load, energy utilization and data center tickets: the computing environment comprises a respective managed environment for each cognitive agent; and each cognitive agent evaluates the respective managed environment and generates a proposed action to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based on a respective current state and respective experience.
11. The server of claim 10, wherein each cognitive agent further evaluates the respective managed environment and generates the proposed action to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based upon a model and simulated experience, and the state information is encoded into pixels.
12. The server of claim 11, wherein each cognitive agent further evaluates the respective managed environment and generates the proposed action to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based upon a policy function optimization, and the pixels include additional information related to the state information that is encoded as red, green and blue values.
13. A method of reconfiguring a software defined infrastructure in a computing environment for a data center, the method comprising: mapping, by a processor, a state of the data center as an image; and implementing, by the processor, a plurality of cognitive agents to perform adaptive deep reinforcement learning using the mapping to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based upon changes in the computing environment.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein: the mapping comprises encoding state information comprising resource utilization, application response time, input/output (I/O) load, energy utilization and data center tickets; the computing environment comprises a respective managed environment for each cognitive agent; and each cognitive agent is implemented to evaluate the respective managed environment and generate a proposed action to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based on a respective current state and respective experience.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein each cognitive agent is implemented to further evaluate the respective managed environment and generate the proposed action to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based upon a model and simulated experience, and the state information is encoded into pixels.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein each cognitive agent is implemented to further evaluate the respective managed environment and generate the proposed action to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based upon a policy function optimization, and the pixels include additional information related to the state information that is encoded as red, green and blue values.
17. A computer program product for a data center comprising software defined infrastructure in a computing environment, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to: map, by the processor, a state of the data center as an image; and implement, by the processor, a plurality of cognitive agents to perform adaptive deep reinforcement learning using the map to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based upon changes in the computing environment.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein: the map comprises encoding state information comprising resource utilization, application response time, input/output (I/O) load, energy utilization and data center tickets: the computing environment comprises a respective managed environment for each cognitive agent; and the operations comprise implementing each cognitive agent to evaluate the respective managed environment and generate a proposed action to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based on a respective current state and respective experience.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the operations comprise implementing each cognitive agent to further evaluate the respective managed environment and generate the proposed action to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based upon a model and simulated experience, and the state information is encoded into pixels.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the operations comprise implementing each cognitive agent to further evaluate the respective managed environment and generate the proposed action to reconfigure the software defined infrastructure based upon a policy function optimization, and the pixels include additional information related to the state information that is encoded as red, green and blue values.
</claims>
</document>
