<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/00,G06T7/11,G06T7/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJIFILM
</assignee>

<inventors>
AKAHORI, SADATO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69946310
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISEASE REGION EXTRACTION APPARATUS, DISEASE REGION EXTRACTION METHOD, AND DISEASE REGION EXTRACTION PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A disease region extraction apparatus includes: an image acquisition unit that acquires a first image obtained by capturing an image of a subject that has developed a disease; an estimated image derivation unit that estimates a second image, whose type is different from the type of the first image, from the first image to derive an estimated image; and a disease region extraction unit that extracts a disease region from the estimated image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A disease region extraction apparatus comprising: an image acquisition unit that acquires a first image obtained by capturing an image of a subject that has developed a disease; an estimated image derivation unit that estimates a second image, whose type is different from a type of the first image, from the first image to derive an estimated image; and a disease region extraction unit that extracts a disease region from the estimated image derived by the estimated image derivation unit.
2. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the estimated image derivation unit comprises a first discriminator that has been subjected to machine learning using learning information including a plurality of data sets of an image set obtained by registration between the first image and the second image whose type is different from the type of the first image, and the estimated image derivation unit derives the estimated image of the second image output from the first discriminator on the basis of the first image input to the first discriminator.
3. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the disease region extraction unit comprises a second discriminator that has been subjected to machine learning using learning information including at least one of a plurality of data sets of the second image whose type is different from the type of the first image and a disease region defined in the second image or a plurality of data sets of the estimated image of the second image derived by the estimated image derivation unit and a disease region defined in the estimated image, and the disease region extraction unit extracts the disease region output from the second discriminator on the basis of the estimated image input to the second discriminator.
4. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the disease region extraction unit comprises a second discriminator that has been subjected to machine learning using learning information including at least one of a plurality of data sets of the second image whose type is different from the type of the first image and a disease region defined in the second image or a plurality of data sets of the estimated image of the second image derived by the estimated image derivation unit and a disease region defined in the estimated image, and the disease region extraction unit extracts the disease region output from the second discriminator on the basis of the estimated image input to the second discriminator.
5. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the second image is an image in which the number of the data sets of the second image and a disease region defined in the second image is larger than the number of data sets of the first image and a disease region defined in the first image.
6. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first image and the second image are captured under different imaging conditions.
7. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first image and the second image are captured by different imaging principles.
8. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the first image and the second image are captured by different imaging principles.
9. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the first image and the second image are captured by different imaging principles.
10. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first image is a CT image and the second image is an MR image.
11. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the MR image is a diffusion-weighted image.
12. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the subject is a brain of a patient that has developed cerebral infarction, and the disease region is an infarction region.
13. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the subject is a brain of a patient that has developed cerebral infarction, and the disease region is an infarction region.
14. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the subject is a brain of a patient that has developed cerebral infarction, and the disease region is an infarction region.
15. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the subject is a brain of a patient that has developed cerebral infarction, and the disease region is an infarction region.
16. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the subject is a brain of a patient that has developed cerebral infarction, and the disease region is an infarction region.
17. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the subject is a brain of a patient that has developed cerebral infarction, and the disease region is an infarction region.
18. The disease region extraction apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a display control unit that reflects the disease region extracted by the disease region extraction unit in the first image acquired by the image acquisition unit and displays the first image on a display unit.
19. A disease region extraction method comprising: acquiring a first image obtained by capturing an image of a subject that has developed a disease; estimating a second image, whose type is different from a type of the first image, from the first image to derive an estimated image; and extracting a disease region from the derived estimated image.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium for storing a disease region extraction program that causes a computer to perform: a process of acquiring a first image obtained by capturing an image of a subject that has developed a disease; a process of estimating a second image, whose type is different from a type of the first image, from the first image to derive an estimated image; and a process of extracting a disease region from the derived estimated image.
</claims>
</document>
