<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B22F3/105,B22F9/08,B33Y10/00,B33Y30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOLYWORKS MATERIALS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHARLES, MATTHEW
EONTA, CHRISTOPHER PAUL
LATOUR, ANDREW VANOS
PRAGER, KAI
REED, TOM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102903
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EXPEDITIONARY ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING (ExAM) SYSTEM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
An expeditionary additive manufacturing (ExAM) system for manufacturing metal parts includes a mobile foundry system configured to produce an alloy powder from a feedstock, and an additive manufacturing system configured to fabricate a part using the alloy powder. The additive manufacturing system includes a computer system having parts data and machine learning programs in signal communication with a cloud service. The parts data can include material specifications, drawings, process specifications, assembly instructions, and product verification requirements for the part. An expeditionary additive manufacturing (ExAM) method for making metal parts includes the steps of transporting the mobile foundry system and the additive manufacturing system to a desired location; making the alloy powder at the location using the mobile foundry system; and building a part at the location using the additive manufacturing system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An expeditionary additive manufacturing (ExAM) system for manufacturing metal parts comprising: a mobile foundry system configured to produce an alloy powder from a feedstock; and an additive manufacturing system configured to fabricate a part using the alloy powder, the additive manufacturing system comprising a computer system having parts data and machine learning programs in signal communication with a cloud service.
2. The (ExAM) system of claim 1 wherein the parts data includes material specifications, drawings, process specifications, assembly instructions, and product verification requirements.
3. The (ExAM) system of claim 1 wherein the additive manufacturing system includes a laser powder bed fusion (LPBF) system having layer-by-layer powder bed monitoring with a negative feedback control loop.
4. The (ExAM) system of claim 1 further comprising a machining system controlled by the computer system, the machining system including machinery selected from the group consisting of lathes, milling tools, torches, cutting saws, power tools and measuring devices controlled by the computer system.
5. The (ExAM) system of claim 1 wherein the machine learning programs are configured to generate a build report showing material, processing, and post processing information on the metal part.
6. The (ExAM) system of claim 1 wherein the machine learning programs are configured to generate an analysis of the alloy powder, part build properties, a source log of lots of the alloy powder with a run log entering the alloy powder in a database and assigning a run name, and a printer log used to record all build information including hopper build logs.
7. The (ExAM) system of claim 1 wherein the mobile foundry system includes a cold hearth mixing system for melting the feedstock and a gas atomization system for forming the alloy powder.
8. The (ExAM) system of claim 7 wherein the feedstock comprises scrap metal and the cold hearth mixing system is configured to perform composition correction for the alloy powder.
9. The (ExAM) system of claim 1 wherein the mobile foundry system comprises a first shipping container and the additive manufacturing system comprises a second shipping container.
10. An expeditionary additive manufacturing (ExAM) system for manufacturing metal parts comprising: a mobile foundry system configured to produce an alloy powder from a feedstock, the mobile foundry system comprising a first shipping container and a cold hearth mixing system in the shipping container for melting the feedstock and a gas atomization system for forming the alloy powder; and an additive manufacturing system configured to fabricate a part using the alloy powder, the additive manufacturing system comprising a second shipping container and a laser powder bed fusion (LPBF) system in the second shipping container having layer-by-layer powder bed monitoring with a negative feedback control loop, a computer system having parts data and machine learning programs in signal communication with a cloud service, the parts data including material specifications, drawings, process specifications, assembly instructions, and product verification requirements.
11. The (ExAM) system of claim 10 wherein the feedstock comprises scrap metal and the cold hearth mixing system is configured to perform composition correction for the alloy powder.
12. The (ExAM) system of claim 10 further comprising a machining system controlled by the computer system, the machining system including machinery selected from the group consisting of lathes, milling tools, torches, cutting saws, power tools and measuring devices controlled by the computer system.
13. The (ExAM) system of claim 10 wherein the machine learning programs are configured to generate a build report showing material, processing, and post processing information on the metal part.
14. The (ExAM) system of claim 10 wherein the machine learning programs are configured to generate an analysis of the alloy powder, part build properties, a source log of lots of the alloy powder with a run log entering the alloy powder in a database and assigning a run name, and a printer log used to record all build information including hopper build logs.
15. An expeditionary additive manufacturing (ExAM) method for manufacturing metal parts comprising: providing a mobile foundry system configured to produce an alloy powder from a feedstock; providing an additive manufacturing system configured to fabricate a part using the alloy powder, the additive manufacturing system including a computing system having stored parts data and machine learning programs in signal communication with a cloud service; transporting the mobile foundry system and the additive manufacturing system to a desired location; and making the alloy powder at the location using the mobile foundry system; and building the part at the location using the additive manufacturing system.
16. The (ExAM) method of claim 15 wherein the building step includes the step of machining the part at the location using a machining system controlled by the computing system.
17. The (ExAM) method of claim 15 wherein the additive manufacturing system includes a laser powder bed fusion (LPBF) system having layer-by-layer powder bed monitoring with a negative feedback control loop.
18. The (ExAM) method of claim 15 wherein the machine learning programs are configured to generate a build report showing material, processing, and post processing information on the metal part.
19. The (ExAM) method of claim 15 wherein the machine learning programs are configured to generate an analysis of the alloy powder, part build properties, a source log of lots of the alloy powder with a run log entering the alloy powder in a database and assigning a run name, and a printer log used to record all build information including hopper build logs.
20. The (ExAM) method of claim 15 wherein the mobile foundry system includes a cold hearth mixing system for melting the feedstock and a gas atomization system for forming the alloy powder.
</claims>
</document>
