<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-06-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B8/08,G06K9/62,G06T7/00,G06T7/41
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SUNNYBROOK RESEARCH INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CZARNOTA, GREGORY, J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514033
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PREDICTION OF TUMOR TREATMENT RESPONSE TO USING TEXTURE DERIVATIVES COMPUTED FROM QUANTITATIVE ULTRASOUND PARAMETERS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for using quantitative ultrasound ("QUS") techniques to generate imaging biomarkers that can be used to assess a prediction of tumor response to different chemotherapy treatment regimens are provided. For instance, the imaging biomarkers can be used to subtype tumors that have resistance to certain chemotherapy regimens prior to drug exposure. These imaging biomarkers can therefore be useful for predicting tumor response and for assessing the prognostic value of particular treatment regimens.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for assessing a prediction of tumor response to a treatment using an ultrasound system, the steps of the method comprising: (a) acquiring ultrasound echo signal data from a subject using the ultrasound system, wherein the ultrasound echo signal data are acquired from a volume containing a tumor; (b) generating parametric map data from the ultrasound echo signal data, wherein the parametric map data have pixel values associated with one or more different quantitative parameters computed from the acquired ultrasound echo signal data; (c) generating texture derivative map data by inputting the parametric map data to two or more passes of a texture analysis algorithm, generating output as the texture derivative map data, wherein the texture derivative map data have pixel values associated with one or more different texture derivatives; and (d) classifying the tumor by applying a classifier to the texture derivative map data, wherein classifying the tumor indicates a prediction of the tumor's response to a treatment.
2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein classifying the tumor includes applying the classifier to both the parametric map data and the texture derivative map data.
3. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: generating texture feature map data by inputting the parametric map data to a texture analysis algorithm, generating output as the texture feature map data, wherein the texture feature map data have pixel values associated with one or more different texture features; and wherein classifying the tumor includes applying the classifier to both the texture map data and the texture derivative map data.
4. The method as recited in claim 3, wherein classifying the tumor includes applying the classifier to the parametric map data, the texture map data, and the texture derivative map data.
5. The method as recited in claim 3, wherein the texture derivative map data are generated by inputting the parametric map data to a first pass of the texture analysis algorithm, generating output as the texture map data, and then inputting the texture map data to a second pass of the texture analysis algorithm, generating output as the texture derivative map data.
6. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein each of the one or more texture derivatives represent a sequential computing of a texture feature.
7. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein the texture feature is at least one of contrast, energy, homogeneity, correlation, autocorrelation, dissimilarity, gray-level co-occurrence matrix variability, entropy, cluster shade, cluster prominence, and maximum probability.
8. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein the texture feature is at least one of a mean, a standard deviation, a skewness, and a kurtosis.
9. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein each of the one or more different quantitative parameters are selected from the group consisting essential of mid-band fit, spectral slope, spectral 0-MHz intercept, attenuation coefficient estimate, average scatterer diameter, and average acoustic concentration.
10. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein step (b) includes computing a normalized power spectrum of the ultrasound echo signal data and generating the parametric map data by computing the one or more different quantitative parameters from the normalized power spectrum.
11. The method as recited in claim 10, wherein step (b) includes providing reference echo signal data obtained from a phantom using the ultrasound system and computing the normalized power spectrum using the provided reference echo signal data such that effects from the ultrasound system are minimized in the normalized power spectrum.
12. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the classifier is at least one of a Fisher's linear discriminant classifier, a support vector machine classifier, or a k-nearest neighbors classifier.
13. A computer-implemented method for using an ultrasound system to assess a prognosis for a subject who will be treated with a particular tumor treatment regimen, the steps of the method comprising: (a) acquiring ultrasound echo signal data from a subject using the ultrasound system, wherein the ultrasound echo signal data are acquired from a volume containing a tumor; (b) generating parametric map data from the ultrasound echo signal data, wherein the parametric map data have pixel values associated with one or more different quantitative parameters computed from the acquired ultrasound echo signal data; (c) generating texture derivative map data by inputting the parametric map data to two or more passes of a texture analysis algorithm, generating output as the texture derivative map data, wherein the texture derivative map data have pixel values associated with one or more different texture derivatives; and (d) classifying the tumor by applying a classifier to the texture derivative map data, wherein classifying the tumor indicates a prognosis for the subject following treatment with a particular tumor treatment regimen.
14. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein the prognosis for the subject is based on an estimator selected from the group consisting of a progression-free survival, a survival rate, and a survival time.
15. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein classifying the tumor includes applying the classifier to both the parametric map data and the texture derivative map data.
16. The method as recited in claim 13, further comprising: generating texture feature map data by inputting the parametric map data to a texture analysis algorithm, generating output as the texture feature map data, wherein the texture feature map data have pixel values associated with one or more different texture features; and wherein classifying the tumor includes applying the classifier to both the texture map data and the texture derivative map data.
17. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein classifying the tumor includes applying the classifier to the parametric map data, the texture map data, and the texture derivative map data.
18. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein the texture derivative map data are generated by inputting the parametric map data to a first pass of the texture analysis algorithm, generating output as the texture map data, and then inputting the texture map data to a second pass of the texture analysis algorithm, generating output as the texture derivative map data.
19. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein each of the one or more texture derivatives represent a sequential computing of a texture feature.
20. The method as recited in claim 19, wherein the texture feature is at least one of contrast, energy, homogeneity, correlation, autocorrelation, dissimilarity, gray-level co-occurrence matrix variability, entropy, cluster shade, cluster prominence, and maximum probability.
21. The method as recited in claim 19, wherein the texture feature is at least one of a mean, a standard deviation, a skewness, and a kurtosis.
22. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein each of the one or more different quantitative parameters are selected from the group consisting essential of mid-band fit, spectral slope, spectral 0-MHz intercept, attenuation coefficient estimate, average scatterer diameter, and average acoustic concentration.
23. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein the classifier is at least one of a Fisher's linear discriminant classifier, a support vector machine classifier, or a k-nearest neighbors classifier.
24. A computer-implemented method for detecting cellular damage in tissue using an ultrasound system, the steps of the method comprising: (a) acquiring ultrasound echo signal data from a subject using the ultrasound system, wherein the ultrasound echo signal data are acquired from a volume containing a tissue; (b) generating parametric map data from the ultrasound echo signal data, wherein the parametric map data have pixel values associated with one or more different quantitative parameters computed from the acquired ultrasound echo signal data; (c) generating texture derivative map data by inputting the parametric map data to two or more passes of a texture analysis algorithm, generating output as the texture derivative map data, wherein the texture derivative map data have pixel values associated with one or more different texture derivatives; and (d) detecting cellular damage in a tissue in the subject by applying a classifier to the texture derivative map data, wherein detecting the cellular damage comprises classifying the tissue as corresponding to a prediction of cellular damage.
25. The method as recited in claim 24, wherein the ultrasound echo signal data are acquired using ultrasound transmitted with a frequency greater than 0 MHz and less than 20 Mhz.
26. The method as recited in claim 24, wherein detecting cellular damage includes applying the classifier to both the parametric map data and the texture derivative map data.
</claims>
</document>
