<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9538,G06F16/955
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Du, Yijun
</assignee>

<inventors>
Du, Yijun
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66437491
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENHANCED DOCUMENT SEARCHING SYSTEM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
Methods of generating and presenting search results to a user of a search engine who has executed a search query using one or more keywords are described. A method includes receiving a set of search results in response to the search query made by the user, generating, for each document hyperlinked to a search result, a preview document image that identifies the keywords from the search query found in the hyperlinked document using a color-based scheme or a symbol-based scheme or combination of both, and presenting the set of search results in a document with a user interface element for each document hyperlinked to a search result which when activated causes the associated preview document image to be displayed to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of generating and presenting enhanced search results to a user of a search engine who has executed a search query using one or more keywords, comprising: receiving a set of search results in response to the search query made by the user; generating, for each document hyperlinked to a search result, a preview document image that identifies the keywords from the search query found in the hyperlinked document using a color-based scheme or a symbol-based scheme or combination of both; and presenting the set of search results in a document with a user interface element for each document hyperlinked to a search result which when activated causes the associated preview document image to be displayed to the user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the color-based scheme or symbol-based scheme or combination of both further identifies one or more of the following: text, images, videos, hyperlinks and plug-ins in the hyperlinked document.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the color-based scheme or symbol-based scheme or combination of both further identifies scripted elements within the hyperlinked document.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the preview document image identifies non-visible elements associated with the hyperlinked document.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the non-visible elements include one or more of the following elements: document length, document format, and date of publication.
6. The method of claim 1, further including associating with each document a menu to show or hide related results based on non-keyword conditions.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the non-keyword conditions include at least one of the following conditions: date published, file format, image density, video density, hyperlink density and domain name.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the user interface element is a toggle which allows the user to toggle on or off whether to display the associated preview document image.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the preview document image comprises an emphasis preview document image and a true preview document image, and the user interface further includes a toggle to allow the user to transition the preview document image between the emphasis preview document image and the true preview document image.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the preview document image includes the entire search result displayed through a view port, the view port movable by means of a scrollable display element.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the preview document image is context-enabled such that actual content of the document is displayed when the user interacts with the preview document image.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the user interaction is provided as a mouse over the preview document image and the actual content is display as a pop-up.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a user interaction with a snippet of the preview document; and generating a tooltip providing one or more of detailed content, increased snippet size presentation, and snippet context.
14. A non-transient, computer-readable medium containing computer-readable instructions, which when executed by a processor cause the computer to: receive a set of search results in response to the search query made by the user; generate, for each document hyperlinked to a search result, a preview document image that identifies the keywords from the search query found in the hyperlinked document using a color-based scheme or a symbol-based scheme or combination of both; and present the set of search results in a document with a user interface element for each document hyperlinked to a search result which when activated causes the associated preview document image to be displayed to the user.
15. The computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the color-based scheme or symbol-based scheme or combination of both further identifies one or more of: text, images, videos, hyperlinks and plug-ins from the document.
16. The computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the color-based scheme or symbol-based scheme or combination of both further identifies scripted elements within the hyperlinked document.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the preview document image identifies non-visible elements associated with the hyperlinked document.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the non-visible elements include one or more of the following elements: document length, document format, and date of publication.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the user interface element is a toggle which allows the user to toggle on or off whether to display the associated preview document image.
20. A method of presenting a user with non-term search options and refining a set of hyperlinked search results of a search session, comprising: receiving the set of hyperlinked search results in response to a search query made by the user; generating, for each hyperlinked search result, an interactive button permitting the user to set an at least one non-term search condition to be applied to the set of hyperlinked search results; applying the at least one non-term search condition to the set of hyperlinked search results to obtain a refined set of hyperlinked search results; and presenting the refined set of hyperlinked search results to the user.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the button provides a drop down menu containing the at least one non-term search condition.
22. The method of claim 20, wherein the at least one non-term search condition is at least one of: date published, file format, image density, video density, hyperlink density, and domain name.
23. The method of claim 21, wherein the drop down menu includes an at least one submenu.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein the drop down menu is customized to the corresponding hyperlinked search result.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the drop down menu includes the site name of the corresponding hyperlinked search result.
26. The method of claim 24, wherein the drop down menu includes the update date of the corresponding hyperlinked search result.
27. The method of claim 20, wherein the interactive button contains a show subbutton and a hide subbutton, the show subbutton permitting a user to apply a desired non-term condition to show search results to which the desired non-term condition applies, and the hide subbutton permitting a user to apply an undesired non-term condition to hide search results to which the undesired non-term condition applies.
28. A method of presenting a search session to a user, comprising: receiving a search query from the user, the search query containing one or more terms or non-term conditions; presenting the user's search query to the user as a search tree, the search tree containing a first parent node representing the search query; presenting the user with a first query-focusing term or non-term condition, the first query-focusing term or non-term condition available to modify the search tree to add a first tier first child node connected to the first parent node, the first tier first child node representing the first query-focusing term or non-term condition; presenting the user with a first query-broadening term or non-term condition, the first query-broadening term or non-term condition available to modify the search session presentation to add a supplemental search tree containing a second parent node, the second parent node representing the first search query as modified by the first query-broadening term or non-term condition; receiving a first search query modification request from the user, the first search query modification request modifying the search query to add or remove a first term or non-term condition; modifying the search tree to add a first tier first child node, the first tier first child node connected to the first parent node and representing the first search query modification; and modifying the search tree to add an at least one first tier unsorted child node, the at least one first tier unsorted child node connected to the first child node and representing the search query less the first search query modification.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the user is able to manually adjust the search tree.
30. The method of claim 28, further comprising the steps of: receiving a second search query modification request from the user, the second search query modification request modifying the search query to add or remove a second term or non-term condition; modifying the search tree to add a first tier second child node, the first tier second child node connected to the first parent node and representing the second search query modification; and modifying the at least one first tier unsorted child node to represent the search query less the search query as modified by the first search query modification and search query as modified by the second search query modification.
31. The method of claim 30, further comprising the steps of: receiving a request from the user to combine the first tier first child node and the first tier second child node; and modifying the search tree to combine the two nodes into a combined child node, the combined child node representing the first and second search query modifications.
32. The method of claim 28, further comprising the steps of: receiving a second search query modification request from the user, the second search query modification request modifying the search query as modified by the first search query modification request to add or remove a second term or non-term condition; modifying the search tree to add a second tier first child node, the second tier first child node connected to the first tier first child node and representing the second search query modification; and modifying the search tree to add an at least one second tier unsorted child node, the at least one second tier unsorted child node connected to the first tier first child node and representing the search query as modified by the first search query modification less the second search query modification.
33. The method of claim 32, further comprising the steps of: receiving a request from a user to reposition the second tier first child node to the first tier; and modifying the search tree to remove the second tier first child node and add a first tier second child node, the first tier second child node representing the same modification as the second tier first child node; modifying the search tree to remove the at least one second tier unsorted child node; and modifying the at least one first tier unsorted child node to represent the search query less the search query as modified by the first search query modification and search query as modified by the second search query modification.
34. The method of claim 28, further comprising the step of presenting the user, for each node of the search tree, with meta data.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein the meta data is a representation of the number of search results returned by the search query as represented by the node.
36. The method of claim 28, further comprising the steps of: receiving a user request to view a selected set of search results corresponding to a selected search query represented by a selected node; and displaying the selected search results to the user;
37. The method of claim 28, wherein in the search tree presented to the user the parent node is hidden.
38. The method of claim 28, wherein in the search tree presented to the user only the nodes with which the user has interacted within a predetermined time are displayed.
</claims>
</document>
