<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06F9/451
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOEL, SHARAD
CARRASCO, LUIS
HILL, MICHAEL
SIM, PAUL Y.
KISHYLAU, DARYA
MENON, METHIL HARYSH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70459772
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMMAND BAR USER INTERFACE
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed in some examples, are methods, systems, GUIs, and machine-readable mediums for providing an improved command bar interface that assists a user in entering commands by implementing a scope operator to specify a command scope and also visual controls for entering parameters of commands. The command bar may have a default global scope that may be modified by users by entering a scope operator and a scope identifier. The command bar may render a set of parameter segments to assist users in entering parameters for the commands.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing device comprising: a processor; a memory, storing instructions, which when executed by the processor, causes the processor to perform operations comprising: displaying a command bar in the GUI; receiving a user input in the command bar identifying a command from a plurality of defined commands; identifying a set of parameters associated with the command; updating a visual representation of the command bar to include a set of visually delineated and selectable text input segments inside the command bar, each one of the set of selectable text input segments corresponding to a different one of the set of parameters; and executing the command with values entered by the user in the selectable text input segments upon receipt of a user input of a command execution input.
2. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving a second user input in a first one of the set of selectable text input segments, the second user input being a text input stream; and showing a suggestion box proximate to the command bar to show parameter value matches to the second user input.
3. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving a second user input in a first one of the set of selectable text input segments; receiving a selection of a second one of the set of selectable text input segments; and showing a suggestion box proximate to the command bar, the suggestion box populated with a set of parameter suggestions for a parameter corresponding to the second one of the set of selectable text input segments, the set of parameter suggestions based upon the command and the second user input.
4. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: providing a set of one or more results in a results box that is proximate to the command bar.
5. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the user input comprises a scope identifier that identifies an application to execute the command and wherein the operations of executing the command with the values entered by the user in the selectable text input segments upon receipt of the user input of the command execution input comprises calling the application with the values entered by the user as parameters.
6. The computing device of claim 5, wherein the operations of executing the command comprises messaging an application that is not an application that caused the displaying of the command bar in the GUI.
7. The computing device of claim 6, wherein the messaging is one of: over a network, or through inter-process communication.
8. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the command is not a search command.
9. A computerized method of executing commands in a graphical user interface (GUI), the method comprising: displaying a command bar in the GUI; receiving a user input in the command bar identifying a command from a plurality of defined commands; identifying a set of parameters associated with the command; updating a visual representation of the command bar to include a set of visually delineated and selectable text input segments inside the command bar, each one of the set of selectable text input segments corresponding to a different one of the set of parameters; and executing the command with values entered by the user in the selectable text input segments upon receipt of a user input of a command execution input.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving a second user input in a first one of the set of selectable text input segments; the second user input being a text input stream; and showing a suggestion box proximate to the command bar to show parameter value matches to the second user input.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving a second user input in a first one of the set of selectable text input segments; receiving a selection of a second one of the set of selectable text input segments; and showing a suggestion box proximate to the command bar, the suggestion box populated with a set of parameter suggestions for a parameter corresponding to the second one of the set of selectable text input segments, the set of parameter suggestions based upon the command and the second user input.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising: providing a set of one or more results in a results box that is proximate to the command bar.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the user input comprises a scope identifier that identifies an application to execute the command and wherein executing the command with the values entered by the user in the selectable text input segments upon receipt of the user input of the command execution input comprises calling the application with the values entered by the user as parameters.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the executing the command comprises messaging an application that is not an application that caused the displaying of the command bar in the GUI.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the messaging is one of: over a network, or through inter-process communication.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein the command is not a search command.
17. A computing device comprising: means for displaying a command bar in the GUI; means for receiving a user input in the command bar identifying a command from a plurality of defined commands; means for identifying a set of parameters associated with the command; means for updating a visual representation of the command bar to include a set of visually delineated and selectable text input segments inside the command bar, each one of the set of selectable text input segments corresponding to a different one of the set of parameters; and means for executing the command with values entered by the user in the selectable text input segments upon receipt of a user input of a command execution input.
18. The computing device of claim 17, further comprising: means for receiving a second user input in a first one of the set of selectable text input segments, the second user input being a text input stream; and means for showing a suggestion box proximate to the command bar to show parameter value matches to the second user input.
19. The computing device of claim 17, further comprising: means for receiving a second user input in a first one of the set of selectable text input segments; means for receiving a selection of a second one of the set of selectable text input segments; and means for showing a suggestion box proximate to the command bar, the suggestion box populated with a set of parameter suggestions for a parameter corresponding to the second one of the set of selectable text input segments, the set of parameter suggestions based upon the command and the second user input.
20. The computing device of claim 17, further comprising: means for providing a set of one or more results in a results box that is proximate to the command bar.
</claims>
</document>
