<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/564,G01N33/68
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BRAINBOX SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
VAN METER, TIMOTHY E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66538796
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROTEIN BIOMARKER INDICATORS OF NEUROLOGICAL INJURY AND/OR DISEASE AND METHODS OF USE THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, compositions and kits useful in the detection, assessment, diagnosis, prognosis and/or treatment of neurological injury or disease or brain injury, such as traumatic brain injury (TBI), are provided in which certain newly discovered protein biomarkers are detected in a biological sample of a subject undergoing testing or evaluation. The methods allow for detection of changes in levels, amounts, or concentrations of the protein biomarkers in a subject compared with those of controls. Detection of the protein biomarkers, and/or levels thereof, provides an indication of biological and biochemical events, e.g., at a cellular level, that are occurring in the subject who is undergoing testing or analysis for the neurological injury or brain injury.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-70. (canceled)
71. A method of detecting one or more protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, in a biological sample obtained from a subject having, or suspected of having, a neurological or brain injury, wherein the one or more protein biomarkers are selected from the group consisting of a synaptogenesis protein, an innate immunity protein, a metabolism protein, an inflammation protein, and a vascular damage protein, the method comprising the steps of: A. i. contacting the biological sample with one or more binding agents that specifically bind to the one or more protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof and ii. detecting binding of the one or more binding agents to the one or more protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof; or B. detecting the presence of the one or more protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, using mass spectrometry.
72. The method of claim 71, wherein the synaptogenesis protein is Protein No. 12, Astrotactin 2 (ASTN2); the innate immunity protein is Protein No. 30, Cullin-7 (CUL7); the metabolism protein is Protein No. 50, metallothionein 1 isoform X (MT1X); the inflammation protein is Protein No. 67, Slit-Robo GTPase protein (SRGAP1); and the vascular damage protein is Protein No. 79, von Willebrand Factor (vWF).
73. The method of to claim 72, wherein the one or more biomarkers comprise two or more, three or more, four or more, or all of Protein No. 12, ASTN2, or a fragment thereof; Protein No. 30, CULL or a fragment thereof; Protein No. 50, MT1X, or a fragment thereof; Protein No. 67, SRGAP1, or a fragment thereof; and Protein No. 79, vWF, or a fragment thereof, and, optionally, one or more protein biomarkers selected from: Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF), or a fragment thereof; Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein (GFAP), or a fragment thereof; Intracellular Adhesion Molecule 5 (ICAM5), or a fragment thereof; Synuclein Beta (SNCB), or a fragment thereof; Metallothionein 3 (MT3), or a fragment thereof; Neurogranin (NRGN), or a fragment thereof; Neuron Specific Enolase (NSE), or a fragment thereof; and Aldolase C (ALDOC), or a fragment thereof.
74. The method of claim 73, further comprising detecting binding to one of more subsets of proteins selected from proteins 1-81 listed in Table 1, or fragments thereof, wherein the one or more subsets of proteins comprise at least one or more proteins from at least one of the following groups of proteins, or fragments thereof: (i) a cell adhesion protein, a cell signaling protein, a cell toxicity protein, a clotting protein, a cytoskeleton protein, an extracellular matrix protein, a gene expression mediating protein, a gene regulation protein, an inflammation protein, a microtubule trafficking protein, a lipid binding protein, a metabolic enzyme, a metabolism protein, a protein-binding protein, a proteolytic protein, a signaling protein, a structural protein, a synapse protein; (ii) at least one protein biomarker found in mammalian cells or tissue, selected from a protein found in astrocytes, one or more proteins found in blood, one or more protein found in blood, heart and liver tissue, one or more proteins found in brain tissue, a protein found in cardiac tissue, a protein found in epithelial tissue, a protein found in interneurons, a protein found in neuroepithelial cells, one or more proteins found in neurons, a protein found in skin tissue, one or more ubiquitous proteins, and combinations thereof; or (iii) a protein with a role in a brain repair process selected from one or more apoptosis proteins, one or more inflammation proteins, one or more innate immunity proteins, one or more membrane repair proteins, one or more metabolism proteins, one or more necrosis proteins, one or more neurodegeneration proteins, one or more neurogenesis proteins, one or more synaptogenesis proteins, one or more vascular repair proteins; or (iv) combinations of (i), (ii), and (iii).
75. The method according to claim 71, wherein the neurological injury or brain injury is: A. an alteration in cellular or molecular integrity, activity, level, robustness, state, or other alteration of the brain, that is traceable to an event; B. a condition that results in central nervous system damage, irrespective of its pathophysiological basis; or C. a traumatic brain injury or a concussion.
76. The method according to claim 71, wherein the biological sample is a blood sample, a serum sample, a plasma sample, a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) sample, a saliva sample, a urine sample, a sputum sample, a secretion sample, a tear sample, or an organ tissue sample.
77. The method according to claim 71, wherein the step of detecting binding of the one or more binding agents to the one or more protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, comprises using a protein detection assay selected from an immunoassay, an immunoblot assay, an immunoprecipitation assay, an immunostaining method, a quantitative assay, an immunofluorescent assay, or a chemiluminescence assay.
78. The method according to claim 77, wherein the step of detecting binding indicates that one or more of the protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, is differentially present in the sample from the subject suspected of having a neurological or brain injury, is at a level that is: A. decreased by at least 5%, by at least 10%, by at least 15%, by at least 20%, by at least 25%, by at least 30%, by at least 35%, by at least 40%, by at least 45%, by at least 50%, by at least 55%, by at least 60%, by at least 65%, by at least 70%, by at least 75%, by at least 80%, by at least 85%, by at least 90%, by at least 95%, or by 100%; or B. increased by at least 5%, by at least 10%, by at least 15%, by at least 20%, by at least 25%, by at least 30%, by at least 35%, by at least 40%, by at least 45%, by at least 50%, by at least 55%, by at least 60%, by at least 65%, by at least 70%, by at least 75%, by at least 80%, by at least 85%, by at least 90%, by at least 95%, by at least 100%, by at least 110%, by at least 120%, by at least 130%, by at least 140%, by at least 150%, or more.
79. A method of assessing whether a therapy or treatment regimen for a neurological injury or brain injury is effective in a subject, the method comprising: A. quantitatively measuring the levels of the one or more protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, in a biological sample obtained from a subject at a first time point prior to initiation of a therapy or treatment regimen for a neurological or brain injury, wherein the one or more protein biomarkers or fragments thereof, are selected from the group consisting of a synaptogenesis protein, an innate immunity protein, a metabolism protein, an inflammation protein, and a vascular damage protein; B. quantitatively measuring the levels of the same, one or more protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, in step (A), in a biological sample obtained from the subject at a second time point, after initiation of the therapy or treatment regimen; and C. i. ceasing treatment for neurological injury or brain injury when the measured levels of the one or more protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, are decreased or trending to normal levels, in the biological sample obtained at the second time point, as compared with measured levels of the one or more protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, at the first time point; or ii. continuing treatment for neurological injury or brain injury when the measured levels of the one or more protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, are increased or trending to abnormal levels, in the biological sample obtained at the second time point, as compared with measured levels of the one or more protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, at the first time point.
80. The method of claim 79, wherein the synaptogenesis protein is: Protein No. 12, ASTN2, or fragment thereof; the innate immunity protein is Protein No. 30, CULL or fragment thereof; the metabolism protein is Protein No. 50, MT1X, or fragment thereof; the inflammation protein is Protein No. 67, SRGAP1, or fragment thereof; and the vascular damage protein is Protein No. 79, vWF, or fragment thereof.
81. The method of claim 80, wherein the one or more protein biomarkers comprise two or more, three or more, four or more, or all of: Protein No. 12, ASTN2, or a fragment thereof; Protein No. 30, CULL or a fragment thereof; Protein No. 50, MT1X, or a fragment thereof; Protein No. 67, SRGAP1, or a fragment thereof; and Protein No. 79, vWF, or a fragment thereof, and, optionally, one or more protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, selected from: BDNF; GFAP; ICAM5; SNCB; MT3; NRGN; NSE; and ALDOC.
82. The method of claim 81, further comprising quantitatively measuring the levels of one of more subsets of proteins selected from proteins 1-81 listed in Table 1, or fragments thereof, wherein the one or more subsets of proteins, or fragments thereof, comprise at least one or more proteins from at least one of the following groups of proteins: (i) a cell adhesion protein, a cell signaling protein, a cell toxicity protein, a clotting protein, a cytoskeleton protein, an extracellular matrix protein, a gene expression mediating protein, a gene regulation protein, an inflammation protein, a microtubule trafficking protein, a lipid binding protein, a metabolic enzyme, a metabolism protein, a protein-binding protein, a proteolytic protein, a signaling protein, a structural protein, a synapse protein; (ii) at least one protein biomarker found in mammalian cells or tissue, selected from a protein found in astrocytes, one or more proteins found in blood, one or more protein found in blood, heart and liver tissue, one or more proteins found in brain tissue, a protein found in cardiac tissue, a protein found in epithelial tissue, a protein found in interneurons, a protein found in neuroepithelial cells, one or more proteins found in neurons, a protein found in skin tissue, one or more ubiquitous proteins, and combinations thereof; or (iii) a protein with a role in a brain repair process selected from one or more apoptosis proteins, one or more inflammation proteins, one or more innate immunity proteins, one or more membrane repair proteins, one or more metabolism proteins, one or more necrosis proteins, one or more neurodegeneration proteins, one or more neurogenesis proteins, one or more synaptogenesis proteins, one or more vascular repair proteins; or (iv) combinations of (i), (ii), and (iii).
83. The method according to claim 79, wherein the neurological injury or brain injury is: A. an alteration in cellular or molecular integrity, activity, level, robustness, state, or other alteration of the brain, that is traceable to an event; or B. a condition that results in central nervous system damage, irrespective of its pathophysiological basis; or C. a traumatic brain injury or a concussion.
84. The method according to claim 79, wherein the biological sample is a blood sample, a serum sample, a plasma sample, CSF sample, a saliva sample, a urine sample, a sputum sample, a secretion sample, a tear sample, or an organ tissue sample.
85. The method according to claim 79, wherein the levels of the one or more protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, are quantitatively measured in a protein detection assay by: A. i. separately contacting the samples from the first and second timepoints with one or more binding agents that specifically bind the one or more of the protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, and ii. detecting binding of the one or more binding agents to one or more of the protein biomarkers present in the samples; or B. using mass spectrometry to separately detect the presence of the one or more protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, the samples from the first and second timepoints.
86. The method according to claim 79, wherein the levels of the one or more of the protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, are decreased by at least 5%, by at least 10%, by at least 15%, by at least 20%, by at least 25%, by at least 30%, by at least 35%, by at least 40%, by at least 45%, by at least 50%, by at least 55%, by at least 60%, by at least 65%, by at least 70%, by at least 75%, by at least 80%, by at least 85%, by at least 90%, by at least 95%, or by 100%, at the second timepoint as compared to the first timepoint.
87. A kit comprising: a biomarker panel comprising one or more binding agents capable of specifically binding to one or protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, contained in a biological sample obtained from a patient suspected of having or at risk of having traumatic brain injury, wherein the binding agents are capable of specifically binding to one or more of Protein No. 12, ASTN2, or a fragment thereof; Protein No. 30, CULL or a fragment thereof; Protein No. 50, MT1X, or a fragment thereof; Protein No. 67, SRGAP1, or a fragment thereof; and Protein No. 79, vWF, or a fragment thereof.
88. The kit according to claim 87, wherein the one or more binding agents comprise two or more, three or more, four or more, or all of the binding agents capable of specifically binding to Protein No. 12, ASTN2, or a fragment thereof; Protein No. 30, CULL or a fragment thereof; Protein No. 50, MT1X, or a fragment thereof; Protein No. 67, SRGAP1, or a fragment thereof; and Protein No. 79, vWF, or a fragment thereof.
89. The kit according to claim 87, wherein the one or more binding agents comprise one or additional binding agents selected from the group consisting of binding agents specific for one or more additional proteins selected from the proteins 1-81 listed in Table 1, and peptide fragments thereof, and, optionally, one or more of the protein biomarkers, or fragments thereof, selected from: BDNF; GFAP; ICAM5; SNCB; MT3; NRGN; NSE; and ALDOC.
90. The kit according to claim 87, wherein the binding agents are antibodies, or antigen binding fragments thereof.
</claims>
</document>
