<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/30,G06F11/34,G06N20/00,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE NIELSEN COMPANY (US)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CIMINO, SUSAN
LIVOTI, JOHN T.
WOODRUFF, STANLEY WELLINGTON
GARG, ALOK
MADHANGANESH, RAJAKUMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71097570
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND APPARATUS TO ANALYZE PERFORMANCE OF WATERMARK ENCODING DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, apparatus, systems and articles of manufacture are disclosed that provide an apparatus to monitor watermark encoder operation, the apparatus comprising: a data collector to collect one or more types of heartbeat data from a watermark encoder, the heartbeat data including time varying data, the one or more types of the heartbeat data defined by a software development kit (SDK); a machine learning engine to process the heartbeat data to predict whether the watermark encoder is associated with respective ones of a plurality of failure modes; and an alert generator to, in response to the machine learning engine predicting the watermark encoder is associated with a first one of the failure modes: generate an alert indicating the at least one of the one or more components to be remedied according to the first one of the failure modes; and transmit the alert to a watermark encoder management agent.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus to monitor watermark encoder operation, the apparatus comprising: a data collector to collect one or more types of heartbeat data via a network from a watermark encoder, the heartbeat data including time varying data characterizing an operational status of one or more components of the watermark encoder, the one or more types of the heartbeat data defined by a software development kit (SDK); a machine learning engine to process the heartbeat data to predict whether the watermark encoder is associated with respective ones of a plurality of failure modes; and an alert generator to, in response to the machine learning engine predicting the watermark encoder is associated with a first one of the failure modes, the first one of the failure modes associated with the operational status of at least one of the one or more components: generate an alert indicating at least one of (a) a type of the first one of the failure modes and (b) the at least one of the one or more components to be remedied according to the first one of the failure modes; and transmit the alert to a watermark encoder management agent.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the watermark encoder is associated with an audience measurement entity.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the machine learning engine is to generate a set of probabilities associated with the one or more components of the watermark encoder, the set of probabilities based on the heartbeat data collected by the data collector and one or more trained parameters of the machine learning engine.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the set of probabilities associated with the one or more components includes a first probability representing a likelihood that a first one of the one or more components is operating outside of a manufacturer defined specification for the first one of the one or more components.
5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the alert generator is to, in response to at least one of the set of probabilities satisfying a first threshold value based on the one or more trained parameters of the machine learning engine, generate the alert indicating at least one of (a) the type of the first one of the failure modes and (b) the at least one of the one or more components to be remedied according to the first one of the failure modes.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the heartbeat data further includes fixed data corresponding to characteristics of the watermark encoder that do not vary over time.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, further including: a failure mode comparator to compare the time varying data to at least one of (a) historical data associated with an operation of at least one of the watermark encoder or another watermark encoder of a similar model as the watermark encoder or (b) reference data obtained from an original equipment manufacturer (OEM) specifying operational characteristics of the model of the watermark encoder; and a report generator to track the time varying data over time.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the alert generator is to, in response to at least one of the fixed data or the time varying data satisfying a second threshold value based on the at least one of the historical data or the reference data, generate the alert indicating at least one of (a) the type of the first one of the failure modes and (b) at least one of the one or more components to be remedied according to the first one of the failure modes.
9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the historical data includes one or more of: Pareto chart data, past heartbeat data, or past failure modes.
10. A non-transitory computer readable storage device comprising instructions that, when executed, cause a machine to at least: collect one or more types of heartbeat data via a network from a watermark encoder, the heartbeat data including time varying data characterizing an operational status of one or more components of the watermark encoder, the one or more types of the heartbeat data defined by a software development kit (SDK); process the heartbeat data to predict whether the watermark encoder is associated with respective ones of a plurality of failure modes; and in response to predicting the watermark encoder is associated with a first one of the failure modes, the first one of the failure modes associated with the operational status of at least one of the one or more components: generate an alert indicating at least one of (a) a type of the first one of the failure modes and (b) the at least one of the one or more components to be remedied according to the first one of the failure modes; and transmit the alert to a watermark encoder management agent.
11. The non-transitory computer readable storage device of claim 10, wherein the watermark encoder is associated with an audience measurement entity.
12. The non-transitory computer readable storage device of claim 10, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the machine to generate a set of probabilities associated with the one or more components of the watermark encoder, the set of probabilities based on collected heartbeat data and one or more trained parameters of a machine learning model.
13. The non-transitory computer readable storage device of claim 12, wherein the set of probabilities associated with the one or more components includes a first probability representing a likelihood that a first one of the one or more components is operating outside of a manufacturer defined specification for the first one of the one or more components.
14. The non-transitory computer readable storage device of claim 12, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the machine to, in response to at least one of the set of probabilities satisfying a first threshold value based on the one or more trained parameters of the machine learning model, generate the alert indicating at least one of (a) the type of the first one of the failure modes and (b) the at least one of the one or more components to be remedied according to the first one of the failure modes.
15. The non-transitory computer readable storage device of claim 10, wherein the heartbeat data further includes fixed data corresponding to characteristics of the watermark encoder that do not vary over time.
16. The non-transitory computer readable storage device of claim 15, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the machine to: compare the time varying data to at least one of (a) historical data associated with an operation of at least one of the watermark encoder or another watermark encoder of a similar model as the watermark encoder or (b) reference data obtained from an original equipment manufacturer (OEM) specifying operational characteristics of the model of the watermark encoder; and track the time varying data over time.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage device of claim 16, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the machine to, in response to at least one of the fixed data or the time varying data satisfying a second threshold value based on the at least one of the historical data or the reference data, generate the alert indicating at least one of (a) the type of the first one of the failure modes and (b) the at least one of the one or more components to be remedied according to the first one of the failure modes.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage device of claim 17, wherein the historical data includes one or more of: Pareto chart data, past heartbeat data, or past failure modes.
19. A method comprising: collecting one or more types of heartbeat data via a network from a watermark encoder, the heartbeat data including time varying data characterizing an operational status of one or more components of the watermark encoder, the one or more types of the heartbeat data defined by a software development kit (SDK); processing the heartbeat data to predict whether the watermark encoder is associated with respective ones of a plurality of failure modes; and in response to predicting the watermark encoder is associated with a first one of the failure modes, the first one of the failure modes associated with the operational status of at least one of the one or more components: generating an alert indicating at least one of (a) a type of the first one of the failure modes and (b) the at least one of the one or more components to be remedied according to the first one of the failure modes; and transmitting the alert to a watermark encoder management agent.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the watermark encoder is associated with an audience measurement entity.
</claims>
</document>
