<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/04,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LOYALTY VISION CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BROWNE, TOM
CARR, RYAN
HILDERMAN, VANCE
ROSS, STEPHEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63583610
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONSUMER RESPONSE INTELLIGENT SPEND PREDICTION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A system, computer program, and database for the accurate determination of consumer spend at the individual household level by category using a combination of census spend data at the neighborhood (Consumer Block Group) level and demographic data. The invention defines a set of detailed measures of consumer spend and computes values for those measures using unique combinations of data and machine learning generating a CBG spend model and a household spend model to iteratively refine the spend models and derive therefrom individual household dollar spend amounts to accurately identify target households or groups of households most likely to respond to advertisements or consumer communications.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A consumer response intelligent spend prediction system for generating predictions of individual household spend in selected product categories for enabling targeting marketing from consumer block group demographic data, block group consumer spend data for each of a plurality of product categories, and individual household demographic data comprising: a. A consumer block group modeling generator coupled for receiving the block group demographic data and consumer block group spend data comprising a demographic segmenting module for arranging the block group demographic data and block group consumer spend data into a plurality of segments with selected block group demographic and selected block group consumer product category spend categories in common, and a model generator for generating correlations between selected block group demographic data and consumer spend data in each segment for each product category and thereby define a spend prediction model for each product category in each segment; b. A projection module coupled to the model generator for receiving the spend prediction model for a selected segment, the selected segment having block group demographics corresponding to the demographics of an individual household thereby associating the individual household with a segment for generating distinct spend estimate for each individual household in each selected product category according to the spend prediction model for the associated segment; c. A prediction spend generator for combining the distinct spend estimate for a selected product category for each individual household of a selected segment to obtain a total spend value for the selected product category in the selected segment; and d. A normalizing processor or comparing the total spend value for the selected product category with the model total spend for the corresponding product category from spend prediction model and modifying the distinct spend estimate of each individual household in the segment so that the total spend value is equal to the model total spend, the modified spend estimate for each household being used to target marketing to households with pre-selected modified spend estimates.
2. The consumer response intelligent spend prediction system of claim 1 further comprising a feedback link coupling the normalizing processor to the model generator for enable the use of the total spend value in place of the block group spend value for each spend category to modify the spend prediction model for each spend category in each segment.
3. The consumer response intelligent spend prediction system of claim 1 further comprising a discretizing module for discretizing and binning selected categories of the block demographic data, the discretized and binned form of the selected categories of the block demographic data being used with the consumer block group demographic data.
4. The consumer response intelligent spend prediction system of claim 1 wherein each segment has as a common geographic region and a common population density.
5. The consumer response intelligent spend prediction system of claim 1 wherein the model generator generates the spend prediction model using at least one artificial intelligence algorithm.
6. A consumer response intelligent spend prediction method for generating predictions of individual household spend in selected product categories for enabling targeted marketing from consumer block group demographic data, consumer block group spend data for each of a plurality of product categories, and individual household demographic data comprising: a. Segmenting the block group demographic data and block group consumer spend data into a plurality of segments each segment has selected block group demographic and selected block group consumer product spend categories in common; b. Generating correlations between selected block group demographic data and consumer spend data in each segment for each product category to define a spend prediction model for each product category in each segment; c. Applying the segment spend prediction model to each individual household in the segment to generate individual household spend predictions for selected product categories; d. Combining the individual household spend predictions for the selected product category for each individual household in the segment to obtain a total spend value for the selected product category in the selected segment; e. Normalizing individual household spend predictions for each selected product category so that the total spend value for a product category is the same as the corresponding consumer block group spend for that product category; and f. Selecting individual households with pre-defined modified spend estimates for marketing of defined products.
7. The consumer response intelligent spend prediction method of claim 6 further comprising using the total spend value for each selected product category in place of the block group spend value for each spend category to modify the spend prediction model for each spend category in each segment.
8. The consumer response intelligent spend prediction method of claim 6 further comprising discretizing and binning selected categories of the block demographic data, the discretized and binned form of the selected categories of the block demographic data being used with the consumer block group demographic data.
9. The consumer response intelligent spend prediction method of claim 6 wherein each segment has as a common geographic region and a common population density.
10. The consumer response intelligent spend prediction method of claim 1 wherein the model generator uses at least one artificial intelligence algorithm to generate the spend prediction model for each product category in each segment.
</claims>
</document>
