<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/23,G06N20/00,G06Q10/08,G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06,G06Q40/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FAIR IP
</assignee>

<inventors>
NGUYEN, DAVID LUAN
BOREN, DAVID SCOTT
BARNWAL, ABHISHEK
Fortin, Paul Joseph
Dalinina, Ruslana
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72917158
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Machine-Learning Data Processing System with Current Value Model
</title>

<abstract>
An embodiment provides a data processing system comprising a processor coupled to a memory for storing a machine learning current value model trained to output a prediction of current value, the machine learning current value model representing a set of vehicle features and historical secondary market transaction values. The processor is configured to create a set of inventory records. The processor is further configured to extract a set of vehicle attributes for a respective vehicle from an inventory record, create a feature vector for the respective vehicle based on the set of vehicle attributes extracted from the inventory record, determine a current value for the respective vehicle by processing the feature vector for the respective vehicle using the machine learning current value model and update the inventory record for the respective vehicle by adding the current value for the respective vehicle to the inventory record for the respective vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data processing system comprising: a memory for storing vehicle inventory records and a machine learning current value model trained to output a prediction of current value, the machine learning current value model representing a set of vehicle features and historical secondary market transaction price; a processor configured to; receive electronic vehicle data regarding vehicles available from multiple sources; store the electronic vehicle data in a set of inventory records, each inventory record in the set of inventory records including a set of vehicle attributes for a respective available vehicle: for each inventory record in the set of inventory records: extract the set of vehicle attributes for the respective available vehicle; create a feature vector for the respective available vehicle based on the set of vehicle attributes extracted from the inventory record for the respective available vehicle; and determine a current value for the respective available vehicle by processing the feature vector for the respective available vehicle using the machine learning current value model and update the inventory record for the respective available vehicle by adding the current value for the respective available vehicle to the inventory record for the respective available vehicle.
2. The data processing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: receive electronic secondary market transaction data regarding multiple secondary market transactions involving secondary market vehicles sold on a secondary market; store the electronic secondary market transaction data in a set of secondary market transaction records, each secondary market transaction record in the set of secondary market transaction records storing a set of attributes for a respective secondary market vehicle, the set of attributes for the respective secondary market vehicle including attributes for secondary market transaction price, make, model, age, mileage, exterior color, body type, fuel type, drive type, and price trend data for the respective secondary market vehicle; create a secondary market transaction feature vector from each secondary market transaction record to create a set of secondary market transaction feature vectors, each secondary market transaction feature vector representing the set of attributes from a respective secondary market transaction record; and train the machine learning current value model using the set of secondary market transaction records.
3. The data processing system of claim 1, wherein the set of vehicle features comprises make, model, trim, age, mileage, exterior color, body type, fuel type, drive type, price trend data and condition.
4. The data processing system of claim 1, wherein the machine learning current value model comprises: a first machine learning model trained to output an initial prediction of current value, the first machine learning model representing a first set of vehicle features and a first set of historical secondary market transaction values; and an adjustment to be applied to the initial predication of current value, the adjustment associated with a second set of vehicle features.
5. The data processing system of claim 4, wherein the adjustment comprises a vehicle condition adjustment.
6. The data processing system of claim 5, wherein the memory stores an auxiliary model, the auxiliary model trained to quantify a relationship between secondary market transaction value and condition, the auxiliary model representing the second set of vehicle features and a second set of historical secondary market values, wherein the first set of vehicle features is different than the second set of vehicle features.
7. The data processing system of claim 6, wherein the first set of vehicle features comprises make, model, trim, age, mileage, exterior color, body type, fuel type, drive type, and price trend data, and secondary market transaction price, and wherein the second set of vehicle features comprises features representing make, model, year, mileage, condition and secondary market transaction price.
8. The data processing system of claim 7, wherein determining the current value for the respective available vehicle comprises using the first machine learning model to determine an initial current value for the respective available vehicle and applying a coefficient determined from the auxiliary model to adjust the initial current value for the respective available vehicle to determine a final current value for the respective available vehicle based on a specified condition grade for the respective available vehicle.
9. The data processing system of claim 8, wherein the machine learning current value model includes a set of coefficients derived from the auxiliary model.
10. The data processing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive a request from a client device associated with a user to browse vehicles; determine a set of payment information associated with the user; determine a set of qualified vehicles for the user, wherein each vehicle in the set of qualified vehicles is determined to be qualified based on the set of payment information associated with the user and the current value determined for that qualified vehicle by the machine learning current value model; and returning a user interface page to the client device to allow the user to browse the set of qualified vehicles determined for the user.
11. A non-transitory computer readable medium embodying thereon computer program code, the computer program code comprising instructions for: executing a machine learning current value model trained to output a prediction of current value, the machine learning current value model representing a set of vehicle features and historical secondary market transaction values; receiving electronic vehicle data regarding vehicles available from multiple sources; storing the electronic vehicle data in a set of inventory records, each inventory record in the set of inventory records including a set of vehicle attributes for a respective available vehicle: for each inventory record in the set of inventory records: extracting the set of vehicle attributes for the respective available vehicle; creating a feature vector for the respective available vehicle based on the set of vehicle attributes extracted from the inventory record for the respective available vehicle; and determining a current value for the respective available vehicle by processing the feature vector for the respective available vehicle using the machine learning current value model and updating the inventory record for the respective available vehicle by adding the current value for the respective available vehicle to the inventory record for the respective available vehicle.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the set of vehicle features comprises make, model, trim, age, mileage, exterior color, body type, fuel type, drive type, price trend data and condition.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the machine learning current value model comprises: a first machine learning model trained to output an initial prediction of current value, the first machine learning model representing a first set of vehicle features and a first set of historical secondary market transaction values; and an adjustment to be applied to the initial predication of current value, the adjustment associated with a second set of vehicle features.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the adjustment comprises a vehicle condition adjustment.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the computer program code further comprises instructions to access an auxiliary model, the auxiliary model trained to quantify a relationship between secondary market transaction value and condition, the auxiliary model representing the second set of vehicle features and a second set of historical secondary market values, wherein the first set of vehicle features is different than the second set of vehicle features.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first set of vehicle features comprises make, model, trim, age, mileage, exterior color, body type, fuel type, drive type, and price trend data, and secondary market transaction price, wherein the second set of vehicle features comprises features representing make, model, year, mileage, condition and secondary market transaction price.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein determining the current value for the respective available vehicle comprises using the first machine learning model to determine an initial current value for the respective available vehicle and applying a coefficient determined from the auxiliary model to adjust the initial current value for the respective available vehicle to determine a final current value for the respective available vehicle based on a specified condition grade for the respective available vehicle.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the machine learning current value model includes a set of coefficients derived from the auxiliary model.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the computer program code comprises instructions for: receiving a request from a client device associated with a user to browse vehicles; determining a set of payment information associated with the user; determining a set of qualified vehicles for the user, wherein each vehicle in the set of qualified vehicles is determined to be qualified based on the set of payment information associated with the user and the current value determined for that qualified vehicle by the machine learning current value model; and returning a user interface page to the client device to allow the user to browse the set of qualified vehicles determined for the user.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the computer program code comprises instructions for: receiving electronic secondary market transaction data regarding multiple secondary market transactions involving secondary market vehicles sold on a secondary market; storing the electronic secondary market transaction data in a set of secondary market transaction records, each secondary market transaction record in the set of secondary market transaction records storing a set of attributes for a respective secondary market vehicle, the set of attributes for the respective secondary market vehicle including attributes for secondary market transaction price, make, model, age, mileage, exterior color, body type, fuel type, drive type, and price trend data for the respective secondary market vehicle; create a secondary market transaction feature vector from each secondary market transaction record to create a set of secondary market transaction feature vectors, each secondary market transaction feature vector representing the set of attributes from a respective secondary market transaction record; and train the machine learning current value model using the set of secondary market transaction records.
</claims>
</document>
