<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06T3/40,G06T7/215,G06T7/70,G08B13/193,G08B21/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY
CHAI, SEK MENG
VELIPASALAR, SENEM
NADAMUNI RAGHAVAN, ASWIN
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAI, SEK MENG
VELIPASALAR, SENEM
NADAMUNI RAGHAVAN, ASWIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69772965
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LOW POWER AND PRIVACY PRESERVING SENSOR PLATFORM FOR OCCUPANCY DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
A low-cost, low-power, stand-alone sensor platform having a visible-range camera sensor, a thermopile array, a microphone, a motion sensor, and a microprocessor that is configured to perform occupancy detection and counting while preserving the privacy of occupants. The platform is programmed to extract shape/texture from images in spatial domain; motion from video in time domain; and audio features in frequency domain. Embedded binarized neural networks are used for efficient object of interest detection. The platform is also programmed with advanced fusion algorithms for multiple sensor modalities addressing dependent sensor observations. The platform may be deployed for (i) residential use in detecting occupants for autonomously controlling building systems, such as HVAC and lighting systems, to provide energy savings, (ii) security and surveillance, such as to detect loitering and surveil places of interest, (iii) analyzing customer behavior and flows, (iv) identifying high performing stores by retailers.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An object detector, comprising: a camera aligned to capture and output an optical image of a field of view; an infrared sensor aligned to capture and output an infrared image of the field of view; a microphone for detecting sounds in the field of view and outputting a signal reflecting a detected sound; a motion sensor for detecting movement within the field of view and outputting a signal reflecting a detection of movement; and a microcontroller coupled to the motion sensor, the camera, the infrared sensor, and the microphone that is programmed to determine whether there is a predetermined object in the field of view based upon the optical image, the infrared image, and the signal reflecting the detected sound.
2. The object detector of claim 1, wherein the microcontroller is programmed to detect whether the predetermined object is in motion based on the motion sensor.
3. The object detector of claim 2, wherein the microcontroller is programmed to determine whether there is a predetermined object in the field of view using edge subtraction to identify a foreground object in a visible range camera image.
4. The object detector of claim 3, wherein the microcontroller is programmed to determine whether there is a predetermined object in the field of view using a modified machine learning network to identify a foreground object in visible range camera images.
5. The object detector of claim 4, wherein the microcontroller is programmed to identify multiple foreground objects in a visible range camera image.
6. The object detector of claim 5, wherein the microcontroller is programmed to count the multiple foreground objects identified in a visible range camera image.
7. The object detector of claim 3, wherein the visible range camera image has a resolution of 50 by 50 pixels or less.
8. The object detector of claim 3, wherein the microcontroller is programmed to determine whether there is a predetermined object in the field of view using an embedded binarized neural network to process a thermal image.
9. The object detector of claim 8, wherein the microcontroller is programmed to identify whether there are multiple predetermined objects in the field of view using an embedded binarized neural network to process a thermal image.
10. The object detector of claim 9, wherein the microcontroller is programmed to count the multiple foreground objects identified in the thermal image.
11. The object detector of claim 1, wherein the microcontroller is programmed to determine whether there is a predetermined object in the field of view based on the signal reflecting the detected sound.
12. The object detector of claim 11, wherein the microcontroller is programmed to determine whether there is a predetermined object in the field of view by comparing an amount of energy in the signal reflecting the detected sound against a threshold.
13. The object detector of claim 12, wherein the microcontroller is programmed to determine whether there is a predetermined object in the field of view by extracting at least one feature from the signal reflecting the detected sound if the amount of energy in the signal exceeds the threshold.
14. The object detector of claim 13, wherein the microcontroller is programmed to determine whether there is a predetermined object in the field of view using mel frequency cepstral coefficients.
15. The object detector of claim 1, wherein the microcontroller is programmed to make a final determination whether the predetermined object is in the field of view based on consideration of a first preliminary determination whether the predetermined object is in the field of view that is based upon the visible range image, consideration of a second preliminary determination whether the predetermined object is in the field of view that is based upon the infrared image, and a third preliminary determination whether the predetermined object is in the field of view based upon the signal reflecting the detected sound.
16. The object detector of claim 15, wherein the microcontroller is programmed to make the final determination using a fusion algorithm that considers the first preliminary determination, the second preliminary determination, and the third preliminary determination.
17. A method of detecting an objecting, comprising the steps of: providing a camera aligned to capture and output an optical image of a field of view, an infrared sensor aligned to capture and output an infrared image of the field of view, a microphone for detecting sounds in the field of view and outputting a signal reflecting a detected sound, and a motion sensor for detecting movement within the field of view and outputting a signal reflecting a detection of movement; and using a microcontroller coupled to the motion sensor, the camera, the infrared sensor, and the microphone to determine whether there is a predetermined object in the field of view based upon the optical image, the infrared image, and the signal reflecting the detected sound.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the step of using the microcontroller to make a determination whether the predetermined object is in the field of view comprises the steps of making a first preliminary determination whether the predetermined object is in the field of view that is based upon the visible range image, making a second preliminary determination whether the predetermined object is in the field of view that is based upon the infrared image, making a third preliminary determination whether the predetermined object is in the field of view based upon the signal reflecting the detected sound, and making a final determination whether the predetermined object is in the field of view using multi-modal fusion.
19. A computer program product for detecting an object, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to: receive an optical image from a camera aligned to capture images of a field of view; receive an infrared image from an infrared sensor aligned to capture infrared images of the field of view; receive a signal reflecting a detected sound from a microphone positioned to detect sounds in the field of view; receive a signal reflecting a detection of movement from a motion sensor positioned to detect movement within the field of view; and make a determination whether there is a predetermined object in the field of view based upon the optical image, the infrared image, and the signal reflecting the detected sound.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the program instructions executable by the computing device cause the computing device to make a determination whether there is a predetermined object in the field of view based upon the optical image, the infrared image, and the signal reflecting the detected sound by making a first preliminary determination whether the predetermined object is in the field of view that is based upon the visible range image, making a second preliminary determination whether the predetermined object is in the field of view that is based upon the infrared image, making a third preliminary determination whether the predetermined object is in the field of view based upon the signal reflecting the detected sound, and then making a final determination whether the predetermined object is in the field of view using multi-modal fusion.
</claims>
</document>
