<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W40/08,G05D1/00,G06F3/01,G06K9/00,G08B23/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOYOTA RESEARCH INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
Brooks, Daniel J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74039578
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MONITORING THE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS OF A VEHICLE ACCORDING TO REACTIONS OF A VEHICLE OCCUPANT
</title>

<abstract>
System, methods, and other embodiments described herein relate to identifying when a situational awareness of a vehicle is inconsistent with a surrounding environment. In one embodiment, a method includes analyzing occupant sensor data about at least one occupant of the vehicle to generate a reaction level of the occupant. The reaction level characterizes at least a current response of the occupant to the surrounding environment and control of the vehicle within the surrounding environment. The method includes comparing an expected reaction for the occupant with the reaction level to determine whether the reaction level of the occupant correlates with the situational awareness of the vehicle about the surrounding environment. The method includes, in response to identifying that the reaction level does not correlate with the expected reaction, executing, by the vehicle, a responsive action to account for inconsistencies in the situational awareness of the vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An introspection system for identifying when a situational awareness of a vehicle is inconsistent with a surrounding environment, comprising: one or more processors; a memory communicably coupled to the one or more processors and storing: a monitoring module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to analyze occupant sensor data about at least one occupant of the vehicle to generate a reaction level of the occupant, the reaction level characterizing at least a current response of the occupant to the surrounding environment and control of the vehicle within the surrounding environment; and an inspection module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: compare an expected reaction for the occupant with the reaction level to determine whether the reaction level of the occupant correlates with the situational awareness of the vehicle about the surrounding environment, and in response to identifying that the reaction level does not correlate with the expected reaction, execute a responsive action to account for inconsistencies in the situational awareness of the vehicle.
2. The introspection system of claim 1, wherein the inspection module includes instructions to execute the response action including instructions to log information about the situational awareness of the vehicle to provide an accounting of circumstances around the inconsistencies in the situational awareness of the vehicle.
3. The introspection system of claim 1, wherein the inspection module includes instructions to execute the response action including instructions to execute one or more of handing off control of the vehicle to the occupant, handing off control of the vehicle to a remote operator, and offloading information about the surrounding environment and operation of the vehicle to further refine determinations about the surrounding environment by the vehicle, and wherein the offloading includes one or more of offloading processing to additional processing components within the vehicle and offloading the processing to cloud-based processing components that are remote from the vehicle.
4. The introspection system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring module includes instructions to acquire the occupant sensor data about at least the occupant within the vehicle, and wherein the monitoring module includes instructions to analyze the occupant sensor data including instructions to determine an operating awareness of the occupant that characterizes awareness of the occupant in relation to the surrounding environment, the reaction level including the operating awareness as a confidence score about reliability of the current response relating to the surrounding environment.
5. The introspection system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring module includes instructions to analyze the occupant sensor data including instructions to generate the reaction level according to one or more of physiological responses of the occupant and actions of the occupant, wherein the physiological responses include autonomic responses of the occupant associated with perceptions of the occupant about actions of the vehicle with respect to the surrounding environment, and wherein the actions of the occupant include one or more of gestures and physical movements of the occupant including at least eye gaze.
6. The introspection system of claim 1, wherein the inspection module includes instructions to determine operating characteristics for the vehicle that indicate the situational awareness of the vehicle in relation to the surrounding environment and determine the expected reaction of the occupant that correlates with the operating characteristics as a point of comparison for the reaction level, wherein the expected reaction indicates at least locations of potential threats in the surrounding environment and a current threat level to the vehicle from the potential threats.
7. The introspection system of claim 6, wherein the inspection module includes instructions to determine the operating characteristics including instructions to analyze internal perceptions and plans of the vehicle to identify aspects of the surrounding environment perceived by the vehicle and attributes of the perceptions.
8. The introspection system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle includes one or more of an advanced driving assistance system (ADAS), a semi-autonomous system, and an autonomous system that generate internal perceptions and plans of the vehicle in relation to the surrounding environment.
9. A non-transitory computer-readable medium for identifying when a situational awareness of a vehicle is inconsistent with a surrounding environment and including instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: analyze occupant sensor data about at least one occupant of the vehicle to generate a reaction level of the occupant, the reaction level characterizing at least a current response of the occupant to the surrounding environment and control of the vehicle within the surrounding environment; compare an expected reaction for the occupant with the reaction level to determine whether the reaction level of the occupant correlates with the situational awareness of the vehicle about the surrounding environment; and in response to identifying that the reaction level does not correlate with the expected reaction, execute a responsive action to account for inconsistencies in the situational awareness of the vehicle.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the instructions to execute the response action include instructions to log information about the situational awareness of the vehicle to provide an accounting of circumstances around the inconsistencies in the situational awareness of the vehicle.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the instructions to execute the response action include instructions to execute one or more of handing off control of the vehicle to the occupant, handing off control of the vehicle to a remote operator, and offloading information about the surrounding environment and operation of the vehicle to further refine determinations about the surrounding environment by the vehicle, and wherein the offloading includes one or more of offloading processing to additional processing components within the vehicle and offloading the processing to cloud-based processing components that are remote from the vehicle.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the instructions further include instructions to acquire the occupant sensor data about at least the occupant within the vehicle, and wherein the instructions to analyze the occupant sensor data include instructions to determine an operating awareness of the occupant that characterizes awareness of the occupant in relation to the surrounding environment, the reaction level including the operating awareness as a confidence score about reliability of the current response relating to the surrounding environment.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the instructions to analyze the occupant sensor data including instructions to generate the reaction level according to one or more of physiological responses of the occupant and actions of the occupant, wherein the physiological responses include autonomic responses of the occupant associated with perceptions of the occupant about actions of the vehicle with respect to the surrounding environment, and wherein the actions of the occupant include one or more of gestures and physical movements of the occupant including at least eye gaze.
14. A method of identifying when a situational awareness of a vehicle is inconsistent with a surrounding environment, comprising: analyzing occupant sensor data about at least one occupant of the vehicle to generate a reaction level of the occupant, the reaction level characterizing at least a current response of the occupant to the surrounding environment and control of the vehicle within the surrounding environment; comparing an expected reaction for the occupant with the reaction level to determine whether the reaction level of the occupant correlates with the situational awareness of the vehicle about the surrounding environment; and in response to identifying that the reaction level does not correlate with the expected reaction, executing, by the vehicle, a responsive action to account for inconsistencies in the situational awareness of the vehicle.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein executing the response action includes logging information about the situational awareness of the vehicle to provide an accounting of circumstances around the inconsistencies in the situational awareness of the vehicle.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein executing the response action includes one or more of handing off control of the vehicle to the occupant, handing off control of the vehicle to a remote operator, and offloading information about the surrounding environment and operation of the vehicle to further refine determinations about the surrounding environment by the vehicle, and wherein the offloading includes one or more of offloading processing to additional processing components within the vehicle and offloading the processing to cloud-based processing components that are remote from the vehicle.
17. The method of claim 14, further comprising: acquiring the occupant sensor data about at least the occupant within the vehicle, wherein analyzing the occupant sensor data includes determining an operating awareness of the occupant that characterizes awareness of the occupant in relation to the surrounding environment, the reaction level including the operating awareness as a confidence score about reliability of the current response relating to the surrounding environment.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein analyzing the occupant sensor data includes generating the reaction level according to one or more of physiological responses of the occupant and actions of the occupant, wherein the physiological responses include autonomic responses of the occupant associated with perceptions of the occupant about actions of the vehicle with respect to the surrounding environment, and wherein the actions of the occupant include one or more of gestures and physical movements of the occupant including at least eye gaze.
19. The method of claim 14, further comprising: determining operating characteristics for the vehicle that indicate the situational awareness of the vehicle in relation to the surrounding environment; and determining the expected reaction of the occupant that correlates with the operating characteristics as a point of comparison for the reaction level, wherein the expected reaction indicates at least locations of potential threats in the surrounding environment and a current threat level to the vehicle from the potential threats.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein determining the operating characteristics includes analyzing internal perceptions and plans of the vehicle to identify aspects of the surrounding environment perceived by the vehicle and attributes of the perceptions.
</claims>
</document>
