<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04N19/115,H04N19/124,H04N19/132,H04N19/146,H04N19/147,H04N19/179
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NETFLIX
</assignee>

<inventors>
AARON, ANNE
DE COCK, JAN
KATSAVOUNIDIS, IOANNIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63791041
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ITERATIVE TECHNIQUES FOR GENERATING MULTIPLE ENCODED VERSIONS OF A MEDIA TITLE
</title>

<abstract>
In various embodiments, an iterative encoding application generates shot encode points based on a first set of encoding points and a first shot sequence associated with a media title. The iterative encoding application performs convex hull operations across the shot encode points to generate a first convex hull. Subsequently, the iterative encoding application generates encoded media sequences based on the first convex hull and a second convex hull that is associated with both a second shot sequence associated with the media title and a second set of encoding points. The iterative encoding application determines a first optimized encoded media and a second optimized encoded media sequence from the encoded media sequences based on, respectively, a first target metric value and a second target metric value for a media metric. Portions of the optimized encoded media sequences are subsequently streamed to endpoint devices during playback of the media title.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. (canceled)
2. A computer-implemented method for generating multiple encoded versions of a source video sequence, the method comprising: generating a first global convex hull of video encode points based on a first set of encoded shot sequences associated with a first shot sequence that is included in the source video sequence and a second set of encoded shot sequences associated with a second shot sequence that is included in the source video sequence; determining a first target encoded video sequence based on the first global convex hull and a first target metric value for a media metric; and determining a second target encoded video sequence based on the first global convex hull and a second target metric value for the media metric, wherein at least one of the first target encoded video sequence or the second target encoded video sequence is subsequently streamed to a client device for playback.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: computing at least a first encoding point based on the first global convex hull and a third target metric value for the media metric; generating a second global convex hull of video encode points based on the at least the first encoding point, the first set of encoded shot sequences, and the second set of encoded shot sequences; and generating a third target encoded video sequence based on the second global convex hull and the third target metric value.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein generating the first global convex hull comprises: generating a first convex hull of shot encode points based on the first set of encoded shot sequences; generating a second convex hull of shot encode points based on the second set of encoded shot sequences; and computing a first video encode point to be included in the first global convex hull based on a first shot encode point included in the first convex hull and a second shot encode point included in the second convex hull.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein generating the first global convex hull comprises: generating a first convex hull that includes at least a first shot encode point and a second shot encode point based on the first set of encoded shot sequences; computing a first slope value between the first shot encode point and the second shot encode point; and computing a first video encode point to be included in the first global convex hull based on the first slope value.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein determining the first target encoded video sequence comprises: determining a first video encode point based on a plurality of metric values for the media metric and the first target metric value, wherein each metric value included in the plurality of metric values is associated with a different video encode point included in the first global convex hull; and determining the first target encoded video sequence based on the first video encode point.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the first target encoded video sequence comprises a first encoded shot sequence that is included in the first set of encoded shot sequences and a second encoded shot sequence that is included in the second set of encoded shot sequences.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein each video encode point included in the first global convex hull is associated with both a bitrate and a value for either a distortion metric or a visual quality metric.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising encoding the first shot sequence using each encoding point included in a first plurality of encoding points to generate the first set of encoded shot sequences.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: determining a first video encode point from the first global convex hull based on a third target metric value for the media metric; determining a first shot encode point that is included in both the first video encode point and a first convex hull of shot encode points that is associated with the first set of encoded shot sequences; computing a first encoding point based on the first shot encode point and a second shot encode point included in the first convex hull; and generating a third target encoded video sequence based on the first encoding point and the third target metric value.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein computing the first encoding point comprises performing one or more polynomial interpolation operations based on a first value for an encoding parameter that is associated with the first shot encode point and a second value for the encoding parameter that is associated with the second shot encode point.
12. One or more non-transitory computer readable media including instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to generate multiple encoded versions of a source video sequence by performing the steps of: generating a first global convex hull of video encode points based on a first set of encoded shot sequences associated with a first shot sequence that is included in the source video sequence and a second set of encoded shot sequences associated with a second shot sequence that is included in the source video sequence; determining a first target encoded video sequence based on the first global convex hull and a first target metric value for a media metric; and determining a second target encoded video sequence based on the first global convex hull and a second target metric value for the media metric, wherein at least one of the first target encoded video sequence or the second target encoded video sequence is subsequently streamed to a client device for playback.
13. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 12, further comprising: computing a first encoding point based on the first global convex hull, a third target metric value for the media metric, and a first convex hull of shot encode points that is associated with first set of encoded shot sequences; encoding the first shot sequence using the first encoding point to generate a first encoded shot sequence; and generating a third target encoded video sequence based on the first encoded shot sequence, the second set of encoded shot sequences, and the third target metric value.
14. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 12, wherein generating the first global convex hull comprises: generating a plurality of convex hulls of shot encode points based on a plurality of sets of encoded shot sequences, wherein each convex hull included in the plurality of convex hulls is associated with a different shot sequence included in the source video sequence; and computing the first global convex hull based on the plurality of convex hulls.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 12, wherein generating the first global convex hull comprises: generating a first convex hull that includes at least a first shot encode point and a second shot encode point based on the first set of encoded shot sequences; computing a first slope value between the first shot encode point and the second shot encode point; and computing a first video encode point to be included in the first global convex hull based on the first slope value.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 12, wherein determining the first target encoded video sequence comprises: determining a first video encode point based on a plurality of metric values for the media metric and the first target metric value, wherein each metric value included in the plurality of metric values is associated with a different video encode point included in the first global convex hull; and determining the first target encoded video sequence based on the first video encode point.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 12, wherein the first encoded video sequence includes at least two encoded shot sequences that are associated with different encoding points.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 12, wherein each video encode point included in the first global convex hull is associated with both a bitrate and a value for either a distortion metric or a visual quality metric.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 12, further comprising encoding the first shot sequence using each encoding point included in a first plurality of encoding points to generate the first set of encoded shot sequences.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 12, further comprising: determining a first video encode point from the first global convex hull based on a third target metric value for the media metric; determining a first shot encode point that is included in both the first video encode point and a first convex hull of shot encode points that is associated with the first set of encoded shot sequences; computing a first encoding point based on the first shot encode point and a second shot encode point included in the first convex hull; and generating a third target encoded video sequence based on the first encoding point and the third target metric value.
21. A system comprising: one or more memories storing instructions; and one or more processors coupled to the one or more memories that, when executing the instructions, perform the steps of: generating a first global convex hull of video encode points based on a first set of encoded shot sequences associated with a first shot sequence that is included in a source video sequence and a second set of encoded shot sequences associated with a second shot sequence that is included in the source video sequence; determining a first target encoded video sequence based on the first global convex hull and a first target metric value for a media metric; and determining a second target encoded video sequence based on the first global convex hull and a second target metric value for the media metric, wherein at least one of the first target encoded video sequence or the second target encoded video sequence is subsequently streamed to a client device for playback.
</claims>
</document>
