<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/335,A63F13/57,G06N20/00,G06N3/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACTIVISION PUBLISHING
</assignee>

<inventors>
EATEDALI, JOSIAH
GIOMBI, MARIO JOSEPH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71097319
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and Methods for Generating Improved Non-Player Characters
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed systems and methods track and continuously monitor data about a player or a multiple players and create a non-playing character (NPC) and/or modify an existing NPC that replicates the player(s) play style. The disclosed systems implement an artificial intelligence engine that monitors how a real player responds to one or more events in a game and correlates game outcomes with real player actions, with the actions or reactions of third players, and/or with an amount or extent of engagement. The engine may be used to generate, host, or otherwise provide data representative of one or more NPCs to multiple different games, being hosted by one or more servers, concurrently.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer implemented method for generating data representative of one or more non-player characters (NPCs) in one or more multi-player video games, the method being implemented in a host computer having one or more physical processors programmed with programmatic instructions that, when executed by the one or more physical processors, cause the host computer to perform the method, the method comprising: tracking one or more profiles of human players to generate human player data; tracking game data, wherein the game data is representative of one or more game events or game outcomes; generating data representative of a behavior of the NPCs by applying a neural network or machine learning process to the human player data and game data; and transmitting the data representative of the behavior of the NPCs to one or more servers hosting the one or more multi-player video games.
2. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising generating the data representative of the behavior of the NPCs substantially concurrently with at least one of the tracking of human player data or the tracking of game data.
3. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the multi-player video games are of a different genre, software platform, or type.
4. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the data representative of the behavior of the NPCs defines one or more reactions of the NPCs to game events or a movement of the NPCs.
5. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the neural network or machine learning process comprises at least one of a linear regression process, a logistic regression process, a decision tree process, a naïve Bayes process, a k-means process, a random forest process, a dimensionality reduction process, a gradient boosting process, a supervised learning process, an unsupervised learning process, or a reinforcement learning process.
6. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more servers comprise at least two and wherein the multi-player video games are of a different genre, software platform, or type.
7. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the human player data comprises data representative of at least one of a method of playing, a skill level, reactions to one or more game events, or a visual appearance
8. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the tracking of the human player data is triggered by a game score, a time left in a multi-player video game, or a game type.
9. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the human player data comprises at least one of an average speed, a weapon usage preference, a weapon in inventory, ammo in inventory, a frequency at which a player engaged an enemy at a first distance, a frequency at which a player fires a first shot in an engagement, a duration that a player spent in specific areas of a map of a game, a time to kill for each weapon type at each distance range, movement attributes, a proximity to teammates, a favorite skin, or emotes.
10. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the game data comprises game outcome data, an amount of time a game is played, an amount of virtual resources earned, lost, or exchanged, a score, a time of completion, a number of levels achieved, or metrics indicative of player engagement.
11. A system adapted to generate data representative of one or more non-player characters (NPCs) in one or more multi-player video games, wherein the system has one or more physical processors programmed with programmatic instructions that, when executed by the one or more physical processors, cause the host computer to: track one or more profiles of human players to generate human player data; track game data, wherein the game data is representative of one or more game events or game outcomes; generate data representative of a behavior of the NPCs by applying a neural network or machine learning process to the human player data and game data; and transmit the data representative of the behavior of the NPCs to one or more servers hosting the one or more multi-player video games.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein, when executed by the one or more physical processors, the programmatic instructions are further configured to generate the data representative of the behavior of the NPCs substantially concurrently with at least one of the tracking of human player data or the tracking of game data.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the multi-player video games are of a different genre, software platform, or type.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the data representative of the behavior of the NPCs defines one or more reactions of the NPCs to game events or a movement of the NPCs.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the neural network or machine learning process comprises at least one of a linear regression process, a logistic regression process, a decision tree process, a naïve Bayes process, a k-means process, a random forest process, a dimensionality reduction process, a gradient boosting process, a supervised learning process, an unsupervised learning process, or a reinforcement learning process.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more servers comprise at least two and wherein the multi-player video games are of a different genre, software platform, or type.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the human player data comprises data representative of at least one of a method of playing, a skill level, reactions to one or more game events, or a visual appearance
18. The system of claim 11, wherein, when executed by the one or more physical processors, the programmatic instructions are further configured to be triggered to track the human player data by a game score, a time left in a multi-player video game, or a game type.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the human player data comprises at least one of an average speed, a weapon usage preference, a weapon in inventory, ammo in inventory, a frequency at which a player engaged an enemy at a first distance, a frequency at which a player fires a first shot in an engagement, a duration that a player spent in specific areas of a map of a game, a time to kill for each weapon type at each distance range, movement attributes, a proximity to teammates, a favorite skin, or emotes.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the game data comprises game outcome data, an amount of time a game is played, an amount of virtual resources earned, lost, or exchanged, a score, a time of completion, a number of levels achieved, or metrics indicative of player engagement.
</claims>
</document>
