<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G06F3/0482,G06F3/16,G06F40/117,G06F40/14,G10L13/02,G10L13/027,G10L15/22,G10L15/26,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AUDIOEYE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAKER, MARK D.
BRADLEY, SEAN D.
BLEVINS, CHARLIE E.
FINKELSTEIN, ADAM
PINCKNEY, DAVID C.
LAYMON, HELENA
BODNAR, TAYLOR R.
JONES, TREVOR C.
GILORMO, DOUGLAS J.
HEFNER, KENNY P.
JONES, JEFFREY O.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59852306
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Modular systems and methods for selectively enabling cloud-based assistive technologies
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for manual and programmatic remediation of websites. JavaScript code is accessed by a user device and optionally calls TTS, ASR, and RADAE modules from a remote server to thereby facilitate website navigation by people with diverse abilities.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A remediation web page computer-implemented method of programmatically assigning descriptive attribute to an untagged element on a web page to enable an audible description of the element, the web page having an associated document object model (DOM), the computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a computer system, from a browser of a remote computer via an electronic network, a remediation request associated with a web page, wherein the remediation request comprises a unique identifier associated with the web page, the remediation request generated by a remediation request code operating in the browser; accessing, by the computer system, a remediation code data storage medium based on the unique identifier to determine a remediation code for the web page; retrieving, by the computer system, the determined remediation code for the web page from the remediation code data storage medium; and transmitting, by the computer system, to the browser of the remote computer via the electronic network, the determined remediation code for the web page, wherein the browser uses the determined remediation code to cause the remote computer to process remediation of the web page for displaying the webpage on the remote computer.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the unique identifier is a URL address.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determined remediation code assigns an alt text description to the untagged element.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determined remediation code assigns a descriptive HTML attribute to the untagged element in the web page.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determined remediation code is javascript.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the remediation request code operating in the browser is javascript.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determined remediation code assigns a title attribute to the untagged element in the web page.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the untagged element is an untagged image in the web page.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the untagged element is an untagged input field in the web page.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the generation of the determined remediation code is based in part on the computer system analyzing one or more contextual cues in the web page.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the causing of the remote computer to process remediation of the web page enables changing the DOM.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the causing of the remote computer to process remediation of the web page enables changing HTML for the web page.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determined remediation code is updated by the computer system on a periodic basis.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determined remediation code is generated by executing an artificial intelligence algorithm.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determined remediation code is generated by executing a machine learning algorithm.
16. A remediation web page computer-implemented method of programmatically assigning a descriptive HTML attribute to an untagged element in a web page to enable an audible description of the untagged element, the web page having an associated document object model (DOM), the computer-implemented method comprising: executing, via a browser operating on a user computer, a remediation request code embedded in the web page; sending, by the user computer, a remediation request over an electronic network to a remote server, wherein the remediation request is for remediating the web page; accessing, by the user computer from the remote server via the electronic network, at least one remediation code for remediating the web page; and executing, by the user computer, the at least one remediation code to cause the user computer to process remediation of the web page to enable an audible description for an untagged element of the web page, wherein the remote server generates the at least one remediation code by: receiving, by a computer system, from the user computer via the electronic network, the remediation request associated with the web page, wherein the remediation request comprises a unique identifier associated with the web page, the remediation request generated by executing the remediation request code operating in the browser; determining, by the computer system, the at least one remediation code for the web page based in part on the unique identifier, wherein the at least one remediation code is stored in a remediation code data storage medium; and causing, by the computer system, the browser to access the at least one remediation code for the web page from the remediation code data storage medium, the at least one remediation code configured to remediate the web page through the browser.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the unique identifier is a URL address.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the at least one remediation code assigns an alt text description to the untagged element in the web page.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the at least one remediation code assigns a descriptive HTML attribute to the untagged element in the web page.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the at least one remediation code is javascript.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the remote server comprises one or more computer systems.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the at least one remediation code assigns a title attribute to the untagged element in the web page.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the untagged element is an untagged image in the web page.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the untagged element is an untagged input field in the web page.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 24, wherein the generation of the at least one remediation code is based in part on the computer system analyzing one or more contextual cues in the web page.
26. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the causing of the user computer to process remediation of the web page enables changing the DOM.
27. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the causing of the user computer to process remediation of the web page enables changing HTML for the web page.
28. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the at least one remediation code is updated by the computer system on a periodic basis.
29. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the at least one remediation code is generated by executing an artificial intelligence algorithm.
30. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the at least one remediation code is generated by executing a machine learning algorithm.
</claims>
</document>
