<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/14,G06K9/00,G06N3/08,G06Q10/08,G06Q30/06,G06T7/20,G06T7/70,H04L29/06,H04L29/08,H04N5/232,H04N5/247,H04W12/06,H04W4/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STANDARD COGNITION CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
FISCHETTI, DANIEL L.
FISHER, JORDAN E.
GREEN, WARREN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66532469
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS TO CHECK-IN SHOPPERS IN A CASHIER-LESS STORE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and techniques are provided for linking subjects in an area of real space with user accounts. The user accounts are linked with client applications executable on mobile computing devices. A plurality of cameras are disposed above the area. The cameras in the plurality of cameras produce respective sequences of images in corresponding fields of view in the real space. A processing system is coupled to the plurality of cameras. The processing system includes logic to determine locations of subjects represented in the images. The processing system further includes logic to match the identified subjects with user accounts by identifying locations of the mobile computing devices executing client applications in the area of real space and matching locations of the mobile computing devices with locations of the subjects.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for linking subjects in an area of real space with user accounts, the user accounts being linked with client applications executable on mobile computing devices, comprising: a processing system configured to receive a plurality of sequences of images of corresponding fields of view in the real space, the processing system including logic to determine locations of identified subjects represented in the images, logic to match the identified subjects with user accounts by identifying locations of mobile devices executing client applications in the area of real space, and matching locations of the mobile devices with locations of the subjects.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the client applications on the mobile computing devices transmit accelerometer data to the processing system, and the logic to match the identified subjects with user accounts uses the accelerometer data transmitted from the mobile computing devices.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the logic to match the identified subjects with user accounts further comprises: logic to calculate velocity of mobile devices using the accelerometer data transmitted from mobile computing devices; logic to calculate distance between velocities of pairs of mobile computing devices with unmatched client applications and velocities of not yet linked identified subjects wherein the velocities of not yet linked identified subjects are calculated from changes in positions of joints of subjects over time, and logic to match mobile computing devices with unmatched client applications to not yet linked identified subjects when the distance between the velocity of a mobile computing device and the velocity of a subject is below a first threshold.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the logic to match mobile computing devices with unmatched client application to not yet linked identified subjects further including logic to increment a score counter for a pair of a mobile computing device with unmatched client application and a not yet linked identified subject when the distance between the velocity of the mobile computing device and the velocity of the subject is below a first threshold.
5. The system of claim 4, further comprising logic to compare the score counters for all pairs of the mobile computing devices with unmatched client applications and the not yet linked identified subjects with a second threshold and selecting a score counter with a highest score above the second threshold; and logic to compare the score of the selected score counter with score of a score counter with a second highest score; and matching the mobile computing device with unmatched client application to not yet linked subject corresponding to the pair of mobile computing device and the subject with the selected score counter when a difference between the scores of the selected score counter and the score of the second highest score counter is above a third threshold.
6. The system of claim 3, further comprising logic to calculate the velocities of not yet linked identified subjects from changes in center of mass of subjects over time wherein the center of mass of subjects is determined from locations of joints of corresponding subjects.
7. The system of claim 3, further comprising logic to process the plurality of sequences of images of corresponding fields of view in the real space to determine hand joints of the not yet linked identified subjects holding mobile computing devices and calculating the velocities of the hand joints of subjects over time.
8. The system of claim 5, further comprising a trained neural network to predict the first threshold, the second threshold and the third threshold.
9. The system of claim 1, further including log data structures including a list of inventory items for the identified subjects, the processing system including logic to associate the log data structure for the matched identified subject to the user account for the identified subject.
10. A method for linking subjects in an area of real space with user accounts, the user accounts being linked with client applications executable on mobile computing devices, the method including: receiving a plurality of sequences of images of corresponding fields of view in the real space, determining locations of identified subjects represented in the images, matching the identified subjects with user accounts by identifying locations of mobile devices executing client applications in the area of real space, and matching locations of the mobile devices with locations of the subjects.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the client applications on the mobile computing devices transmit accelerometer data, and matching the identified subjects with user accounts includes using the accelerometer data transmitted from the mobile computing devices.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein matching the identified subjects with user accounts further including: calculating velocity of mobile devices using the accelerometer data transmitted from mobile computing devices; calculating distance between velocities of pairs of mobile computing devices with unmatched client applications and velocities of not yet linked identified subjects wherein the velocities of not yet linked identified subjects are calculated from changes in positions of joints of subjects over time, and matching mobile computing devices with unmatched client applications to not yet linked identified subjects when the distance between the velocity of a mobile computing device and the velocity of a subject is below a first threshold.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein matching mobile computing devices with unmatched client application to not yet linked identified subjects further including incrementing a score counter for a pair of a mobile computing device with unmatched client application and a not yet linked identified subject when the distance between the velocity of the mobile computing device and the velocity of the subject is below a first threshold.
14. The method of claim 13, further including comparing the score counters for all pairs of the mobile computing devices with unmatched client applications and the not yet linked identified subjects with a second threshold and selecting a score counter with a highest score above the second threshold; and comparing the score of the selected score counter with score of a score counter with a second highest score; and matching the mobile computing device with unmatched client application to not yet linked subject corresponding to the pair of mobile computing device and the subject with the selected score counter when a difference between the scores of the selected score counter and the score of the second highest score counter is above a third threshold.
15. The method of claim 12, further including calculating the velocities of not yet linked identified subjects from changes in center of mass of subjects over time wherein the center of mass of subjects is determined from locations of joints of corresponding subjects.
16. The method of claim 12, further including processing the plurality of sequences of images of corresponding fields of view in the real space to determine hand joints of the not yet linked identified subjects holding mobile computing devices and calculating the velocities of the hand joints of subjects over time.
17. The method of claim 14, further including using a trained neural network to predict the first threshold, the second threshold and the third threshold.
18. The method of claim 10, further including associating a log data structure for the matched identified subject to the user account for the identified subject, wherein the log data structure includes a list of inventory items for the identified subject.
19. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium impressed with computer program instructions to link subjects in an area of real space with user accounts, the user accounts being linked with client applications executable on mobile computing devices, the instructions, when executed on a processor, implement a method comprising: receiving a plurality of sequences of images of corresponding fields of view in the real space, determining locations of identified subjects represented in the images, matching the identified subjects with user accounts by identifying locations of mobile devices executing client applications in the area of real space, and matching locations of the mobile devices with locations of the subjects.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the client applications on the mobile computing devices transmit accelerometer data, and matching the identified subjects with user accounts includes using the accelerometer data transmitted from the mobile computing devices.
21. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein matching the identified subjects with user accounts implementing the method further comprising: calculating velocity of mobile devices using the accelerometer data transmitted from mobile computing devices; calculating distance between velocities of pairs of mobile computing devices with unmatched client applications and velocities of not yet linked identified subjects wherein the velocities of not yet linked identified subjects are calculated from changes in positions of joints of subjects over time, and matching mobile computing devices with unmatched client applications to not yet linked identified subjects when the distance between the velocity of a mobile computing device and the velocity of a subject is below a first threshold.
22. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 21, wherein matching mobile computing devices with unmatched client application to not yet linked identified subjects implementing the method further comprising: incrementing a score counter for a pair of a mobile computing device with unmatched client application and a not yet linked identified subject when the distance between the velocity of the mobile computing device and the velocity of the subject is below a first threshold.
23. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 22, implementing the method further comprising: comparing the score counters for all pairs of the mobile computing devices with unmatched client applications and the not yet linked identified subjects with a second threshold and selecting a score counter with a highest score above the second threshold; and comparing the score of the selected score counter with score of a score counter with a second highest score; and matching the mobile computing device with unmatched client application to not yet linked subject corresponding to the pair of mobile computing device and the subject with the selected score counter when a difference between the scores of the selected score counter and the score of the second highest score counter is above a third threshold.
24. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 21, implementing the method further comprising: calculating the velocities of not yet linked identified subjects from changes in center of mass of subjects over time wherein the center of mass of subjects is determined from locations of joints of corresponding subjects.
25. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 21, implementing the method further comprising: processing the plurality of sequences of images of corresponding fields of view in the real space to determine hand joints of the not yet linked identified subjects holding mobile computing devices and calculating the velocities of the hand joints of subjects over time.
26. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 23, implementing the method further comprising: using a trained neural network to predict the first threshold, the second threshold and the third threshold.
27. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 19, implementing the method further comprising: associating a log data structure for the matched identified subject to the user account for the identified subject, wherein the log data structure includes a list of inventory items for the identified subject.
</claims>
</document>
