<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/11,G08B21/04,G16H40/63,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
POUPYREV, IVAN
KARAGOZLER, MUSTAFA EMRE
ALLMON, DAVID SCOTT
FUKUHARA, SHIHO
SATO, MUNEHIKO
WILHITE, SUSAN JANE
CERRUTO, ANTONIO XAVIER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58098689
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Ergonomic Assessment Garment
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods of determining an ergonomic assessment for a user are provided. For instance, sensor data can be received from one or more sensors implemented with an ergonomic assessment garment worn by a user. Corporeal data associated with at least one body segment of the user can be determined based at least in part on the sensor data. The corporeal data is associated with a bend angle associated with the at least one body segment. An ergonomic assessment associated with the user can be determined based at least in part on the corporeal data. The ergonomic assessment can include an indication of one or more ergonomic zones associated with the user, the one or more ergonomic zones being determined based at least in part on the bend angle associated with the at least one body segment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A system for determining an ergonomic assessment associated with a user, comprising: an ergonomic assessment garment; one or more sensors implemented with the ergonomic assessment garment; and one or more processors implemented with the ergonomic assessment garment and configured to: receive sensor data associated with the one or more sensors during a measurement period; determine corporeal data associated with at least one body segment of the user based at least in part on the sensor data, the corporeal data associated with at least one of a velocity, an acceleration, or a bend angle associated with the at least one body segment; determine one or more ergonomic zones based at least in part on the measurement period and the at least one of the velocity, the acceleration, or the bend angle associated with the at least one body segment during the measurement period, wherein the one or more ergonomic zones are based at least in part on a number of instances in which the at least one of the velocity, the acceleration, or the bend angle associated with the at least one body segment exceeds one or more thresholds during the measurement period; and determine the ergonomic assessment associated with the user based at least in part on the corporeal data, the ergonomic assessment comprising an indication of one or more ergonomic zones associated with the user.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the corporeal data comprises data associated with a timing of the at least one of the velocity, the acceleration, or the bend angle of the at least one body segment relative to the one or more thresholds.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein determining corporeal data for at least one body segment of the user comprises measuring an amount of time that the at least one of the velocity, the acceleration, or the bend angle of the at least one body segment is greater than the one or more thresholds.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein determining the one or more ergonomic zones associated with the user comprises determining the one or more ergonomic zones based at least in part on the amount of time that the at least one of the velocity, the acceleration, or the bend angle of the at least one body segment is greater than the one or more thresholds.
25. The system of claim 21, wherein determining the ergonomic assessment associated with the user comprises determining an assessment of an expenditure of power by the user.
26. The system of claim 21, further comprising providing one or more haptic feedback signals to the user via the ergonomic assessment garment based at least in part on the ergonomic assessment.
27. The system of claim 21, wherein the ergonomic assessment garment is a smart garment constructed at least in part using electrically conductive yarns woven into a fabric structure of the ergonomic assessment garment.
28. The system of claim 21, wherein the one or more sensors comprise one or more accelerometers implemented within the ergonomic assessment garment to facilitate a measurement of a motion or posture associated with the at least one body segment.
29. The system of claim 21, wherein the corporeal data additionally comprises data associated with a range of motion of the at least one body segment.
30. A computing system, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more memory devices, the one or more memory devices storing computer-readable instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving, by one or more computing devices, sensor data from one or more sensors during a measurement period, the one or more sensors implemented with an ergonomic assessment garment worn by a user; determining, by the one or more computing devices, corporeal data associated with at least one body segment of the user based at least in part on the sensor data, the corporeal data associated with at least one of a velocity, an acceleration, or a bend angle associated with the at least one body segment; determining, by the one or more computing devices, one or more ergonomic zones based at least in part on the measurement period and the at least one of the velocity, the acceleration, or the bend angle associated with the at least one body segment during the measurement period, wherein the one or more ergonomic zones are based at least in part on an amount of time during which the at least one of the velocity, the acceleration, or the bend angle associated with the at least one body segment exceeds one or more thresholds during the measurement period; and determining, by the one or more computing devices, an ergonomic assessment associated with the user based at least in part on the corporeal data, the ergonomic assessment comprising an indication of one or more ergonomic zones associated with the user.
31. The computing system of claim 30, wherein the corporeal data comprises data associated with a timing of the at least one of the velocity, the acceleration, or the bend angle of the at least one body segment relative to the one or more thresholds.
32. The computing system of claim 31, wherein determining corporeal data for at least one body segment of the user comprises measuring the amount of time that the at least one of the velocity, the acceleration, or the bend angle of the at least one body segment is greater than the one or more thresholds.
33. The computing system of claim 30, wherein the one or more ergonomic zones are based at least in part on a number of instances in which the at least one of the velocity, the acceleration, or the bend angle associated with the at least one body segment exceeds the one or more thresholds during the measurement period
34. The computing system of claim 30, wherein the ergonomic assessment garment is a smart garment constructed at least in part using electrically conductive yarns woven into a fabric structure of the ergonomic assessment garment.
35. A computer-implemented method of determining an ergonomic assessment associated with a user, the method comprising: receiving, by one or more computing devices, sensor data from one or more sensors during a measurement period, the one or more sensors implemented with an ergonomic assessment garment worn by the user; determining, by the one or more computing devices, corporeal data associated with at least one body segment of the user based at least in part on the sensor data, the corporeal data associated with a bend angle associated with the at least one body segment; determining, by the one or more computing devices, one or more ergonomic zones based at least in part on the measurement period and the bend angle associated with the at least one body segment during the measurement period, wherein the one or more ergonomic zones are based at least in part on an amount of time during which the bend angle associated with the at least one body segment exceeds one or more thresholds during the measurement period; and determining, by the one or more computing devices, the ergonomic assessment associated with the user based at least in part on the corporeal data, the ergonomic assessment comprising an indication of one or more ergonomic zones associated with the user.
36. The computer-implemented method of claim 35, wherein the corporeal data comprises data associated with a timing of the bend angle of the at least one body segment relative to the one or more thresholds.
37. The computer-implemented method of claim 36, wherein determining, by the one or more computing devices, corporeal data for at least one body segment of the user comprises measuring the amount of time that the bend angle of the at least one body segment is greater than the one or more thresholds.
38. The computer-implemented method of claim 35, wherein the one or more ergonomic zones are based at least in part on a number of instances in which the bend angle associated with the at least one body segment exceeds the one or more thresholds during the measurement period
39. The computer-implemented method of claim 35, wherein the corporeal data additionally comprises data associated with a range of motion of the at least one body segment.
40. The computer-implemented method of claim 35, wherein the ergonomic assessment garment is a smart garment constructed at least in part using electrically conductive yarns woven into a fabric structure of the ergonomic assessment garment.
</claims>
</document>
