<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H02H1/00,H02H7/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON
</assignee>

<inventors>
Hata, Takayuki
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73222176
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
POWER SUPPLY APPARATUS THAT OUTPUTS VOLTAGE SUPPLIED TO LOAD
</title>

<abstract>
A processor starts output of a drive signal prior to output of a control signal. The processor determines a fault related to the drive signal based on a detection signal outputted from a detection circuit. In a case where a fault related to the drive signal is not detected, the processor starts output of the control signal. In a case where a fault related to the drive signal is detected, the processor stops output of the drive signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A power supply apparatus for outputting a voltage to be supplied to a load, the apparatus comprising: at least one processor configured to generate a control signal for setting a target voltage to be outputted and a drive signal for driving an element of the power supply apparatus to output the target voltage; a power supply circuit configured to, upon being inputted with the drive signal and the control signal, start generation of an output voltage based on the target voltage specified by the control signal; and a detection circuit configured to generate a detection signal used for determination of a fault related to the drive signal based on the drive signal and the output voltage outputted from the power supply circuit; wherein the at least one processor starts output of the drive signal prior to output of the control signal, in a time period where the output of the control signal is not being performed, determines a fault related to the drive signal based on the detection signal outputted from the detection circuit, and in a case where a fault related to the drive signal is not detected, starts output of the control signal, and in a case where a fault related to the drive signal is detected, stops output of the drive signal.
2. The power supply apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine that a fault related to the drive signal has occurred in a case where the output of the control signal is not started in a first time period after the output of the drive signal is started and in a case where a level of the detection signal does not change even once from a first level to a second level in the first time period.
3. The power supply apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine that a fault related to the control signal or the power supply circuit has occurred in a case where the level of the detection signal changes from the first level to the second level during the first time period and the level of the detection signal returns from the second level to the first level at the end of the first time period.
4. The power supply apparatus according to claim 3, wherein wherein the at least one processor is configured to start output of the control signal at the start of a second time period following the first time period, and, in a case where the level of the detection signal does not return from the second level to the first level by the end of the second time period, determine that a fault related to the control signal or the power supply circuit has occurred, and, in a case where the level of the detection signal returns from the second level to the first level by the end of the second time period, determine that a fault related to the control signal and the power supply circuit has not occurred.
5. The power supply apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine that a fault related to the drive signal, the control signal, or the power supply circuit has not occurred in a case where the level of the detection signal maintains the first level in a third time period after the second time period, and determine that a fault related to the drive signal, the control signal, or the power supply circuit has occurred in a case where the level of the detection signal becomes the second level in the third time period, wherein both the drive signal and the control signal are outputted in the third time period.
6. The power supply apparatus according to claim 2, wherein wherein the at least one processor in a case where the level of the detection signal does not change from the first level to the second level in a fourth time period in which the output of the control signal is stopped while the output of the drive signal is continued, determines that a fault related to the drive signal, the control signal, or the power supply circuit has occurred.
7. The power supply apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the at least one processor, in a case where the level of the detection signal changes from the first level to the second level and the level of the detection signal returns from the second level to the first level in the fourth time period, determines that a fault related to the drive signal has occurred.
8. The power supply apparatus according to claim 7, wherein wherein the at least one processor in a case where the level of the detection signal is maintained at the second level at the end of the fourth time period, stops output of the drive signal, and in a case where the level of the detection signal returns from the second level to the first level in a fifth time period following the fourth time period, it is determined that a fault related to the drive signal, the control signal, or the power supply circuit has not occurred.
9. The power supply apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the at least one processor determines that a fault related to the drive signal has occurred in a case where the level of the detection signal is maintained at the second level at the end of the fifth time period.
10. The power supply apparatus according to claim 1, wherein wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: in a case where the detection signal indicates that a level of the drive signal is fixed to a predetermined level at a predetermined timing at which both the drive signal and the control signal are stopped, determine that a fault related to the drive signal has occurred, and in a case where the detection signal does not indicate that the level of the drive signal is fixed to the predetermined level, determine that a fault related to the drive signal has not occurred.
11. The power supply apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the power supply circuit has: a transformer, a switching element configured to switch a primary side voltage applied to a primary side of the transformer based on the drive signal, and a setting circuit configured to set a magnitude of the primary side voltage based on the control signal.
12. The power supply apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the detection circuit has a first detection circuit configured to detect the drive signal, a second detection circuit configured to detect the output voltage, and a generation circuit configured to generate the detection signal based on a result of the detection by the first detection circuit and a result of the detection by the second detection circuit.
13. The power supply apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the generation circuit is configured to in a case where the output voltage is detected by the second detection circuit, output the detection signal at a first level without depending on the result of the detection by the first detection circuit, in a case where the output voltage is not detected by the second detection circuit, output the detection signal at a level in accordance with the result of the detection by the first detection circuit.
14. A power supply apparatus operable to output a voltage to be supplied to a load, the apparatus comprising: at least one processor configured to generate a control signal for setting a target voltage to be outputted and generate a drive signal for driving an element of the power supply apparatus to output the target voltage; a power supply circuit configured to, upon being inputted with the drive signal and the control signal, start generation of an output voltage based on the target voltage specified by the control signal; and a detection circuit configured to generate a detection signal to be used for determining, based on the drive signal and the output voltage outputted from the power supply circuit, a fault related to the drive signal, the control signal, or the power supply circuit, wherein the at least one processor configured to execute a first sequence and a second sequence, in the first sequence the at least one processor determines occurrence of a fault related to the drive signal based on the detection signal outputted from the detection circuit at a predetermined timing at which both the drive signal and the control signal are stopped, and in the second sequence the at least one processor determines occurrence of a fault related to the drive signal, the control signal, and the power supply circuit in a first time period in which output of the drive signal starts and output of the control signal does not start, and determines occurrence of a fault related to the control signal and the power supply circuit in a second time period after the drive signal is being outputted and output of the control signal is started.
15. The power supply apparatus according to claim 14, wherein wherein the at least one processor configured to execute a third sequence in which the at least one processor determines the occurrence of a fault related to the drive signal, the control signal, and the power supply circuit in a third time period in which the drive signal is continuously outputted and the control signal is continuously outputted.
16. The power supply apparatus according to claim 14, wherein wherein the at least one processor configured to execute a fourth sequence in which the at least one processor determines the occurrence of a fault related to the drive signal, the control signal, and the power supply circuit in a fourth time period in which the drive signal is continuously outputted and output of the control signal is stopped.
17. The power supply apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the fourth sequence includes stopping the output of the drive signal at the start of a fifth time period following the fourth time period, and determining occurrence of a fault related to the control signal and the power supply circuit in the fifth time period.
18. The power supply apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the at least one processor determines that a fault related to the drive signal has occurred in a case where a level of the detection signal in the first sequence is a second level.
19. The power supply apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the at least one processor, in the second sequence, determines that a fault related to the drive signal has occurred in a case where a level of the detection signal has not changed from a first level to a second level before the end of the first time period, determines that a fault related to the control signal or the power supply circuit has occurred in a case where the level of the detection signal has returned from the second level to the first level before the end of the first time period, and determines that a fault related to the control signal or the power supply circuit has occurred in a case where the level of the detection signal has returned from the first level to the second level before the end of the second time period.
20. The power supply apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the at least one processor, in the third sequence, determines that a fault related to the drive signal, the control signal or the power supply circuit has occurred in a case where a level of the detection signal has returned from a first level to a second level before the end of the third time period.
21. The power supply apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the at least one processor, in the fourth sequence, determines that a fault related to the drive signal, the control signal, or the power supply circuit has occurred in a case where a level of the detection signal has not changed from a first level to a second level before the end of the fourth time period, determines that a fault related to the drive signal has occurred in a case where the level of the detection signal has returned from the second level to the first level before the end of the fourth time period, and determines that a fault related to the drive signal has occurred in a case where the level of the detection signal has returned from the first level to the second level in the fifth time period.
22. The power supply apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the power supply apparatus is configured to supply power to an image forming apparatus, and the first sequence is executed when the image forming apparatus starts a preparation operation for forming an image on a sheet, and the second sequence is executed during execution of the preparation operation.
23. A power supply apparatus for outputting a voltage to be supplied to a load, comprising: at least one processor configured to generate a control signal for setting a target voltage to be outputted, and a drive signal for driving an element of the power supply apparatus to output the target voltage; a power supply circuit configured to, upon being inputted with the drive signal and the control signal, start generation of an output voltage based on the target voltage which is designated in accordance with the control signal; and a detection circuit configured to generate a detection signal to be used for determining, based on the drive signal and the output voltage outputted from the power supply circuit, a fault related to the drive signal, the control signal, or the power supply circuit, wherein the at least one processor determines the presence or absence of a fault related to the drive signal, the control signal, or the power supply circuit based on the detection signal outputted from the detection circuit, wherein the power supply circuit has a transformer, a switching element configured to switch a primary side voltage applied to a primary side of the transformer based on the drive signal, and a setting circuit configured to set a magnitude of the primary side voltage based on the control signal, and the detection circuit has a first detection circuit configured to detect the drive signal, a second detection circuit configured to detect the output voltage, and a generation circuit configured to generate the detection signal based on a detection result of the first detection circuit and a detection result of the second detection circuit.
24. The power supply apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the power supply circuit and the detection circuit are mounted to a first substrate, and the at least one processor is mounted to a second substrate.
25. An image forming apparatus comprising: a power supply apparatus; and an image forming unit configured to use an output of the power supply apparatus to form an image on a sheet, wherein the power supply apparatus comprises: at least one processor configured to generate a control signal for setting a target voltage to be outputted and a drive signal for driving an element of the power supply apparatus to output the target voltage; a power supply circuit configured to, upon being inputted with the drive signal and the control signal, start generation of an output voltage based on the target voltage specified by the control signal; and a detection circuit configured to generate a detection signal used for determination of a fault related to the drive signal based on the drive signal and the output voltage outputted from the power supply circuit; wherein the at least one processor in a time period where output of the drive signal starts prior to the control signal and output of the control signal is not performed, determines a fault related to the drive signal based on the detection signal outputted from the detection circuit, and in a case where a fault related to the drive signal is not detected, starts output of the control signal, and in a case where a fault related to the drive signal is detected, stops output of the drive signal.
</claims>
</document>
