<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/332,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAKSHIT, SARBAJIT K.
GRANT, ROBERT H.
Silverstein, Zachary A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046231
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTEXT-SENSITIVE AGGREGATION OF CHATBOT CONVERSATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed embodiments provide techniques for expanding user-chatbot conversations to include other relevant users. In some embodiments, the users are deemed to potentially be interested in learning information regarding the conversation topic. In other embodiments, the users are deemed to be potentially able to provide additional information regarding the conversation topic. In embodiments, a submitted question to a chatbot in a conversation on a messaging platform is received. The topic of the submitted question is identified. A probability that one or more additional users would benefit from an answer to the submitted question is determined. One or more additional users are invited to the conversation based on the determined probability that one or more additional users would benefit from an answer to, and/or provide information regarding, the submitted question.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for context-sensitive chatbot aggregation in a messaging platform comprising: receiving a submitted question to a chatbot in a conversation on the messaging platform; identifying a topic of the submitted question; determining a probability that one or more additional users would benefit from an answer to the submitted question; and inviting one or more additional users to the conversation based on the determined probability that one or more additional users would benefit from an answer to the submitted question.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a probability that one or more additional users have information regarding the topic of the submitted question; and inviting one or more additional users to the conversation based on the determined probability that one or more additional users have information regarding the topic of the submitted question.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining an optimal group size for the conversation; determining a current group size for a current group of the conversation, wherein the current group comprises one or more current users; and inviting one or more additional users to the conversation based on the determined optimal group size for the conversation and the determined current group size for the conversation.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: performing a private subject matter determination on the identified topic; and wherein inviting one or more additional users to the conversation occurs only if the private subject matter determination is negative.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein determining an optimal group size comprises performing a scroll back analysis for each of the one or more current users.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein determining an optimal group size comprises performing a repeat question analysis for each of the one or more current users.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining a probability that one or more additional users would benefit from an answer to the submitted question is based on historical use of the messaging platform.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein determining a probability that one or more additional users have information regarding the topic of the submitted question is based on historical use of the messaging platform.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein determining an optimal group size for the conversation is based on historical use of the messaging platform.
10. An electronic computation device comprising: a processor; a memory coupled to the processor, the memory containing instructions, that when executed by the processor, perform the process of: receiving a submitted question to a chatbot in a conversation on a messaging platform; identifying a topic of the submitted question; determining a probability that one or more additional users would benefit from an answer to the submitted question; and inviting one or more additional users to the conversation based on the determined probability that one or more additional users would benefit from an answer to the submitted question.
11. The electronic computation device of claim 10, wherein the memory further comprises instructions, that when executed by the processor, perform the process of: determining a probability that one or more additional users have information regarding the topic of the submitted question; and inviting one or more additional users to the conversation based on the determined probability that one or more additional users have information regarding the topic of the submitted question.
12. The electronic computation device of claim 10, wherein the memory further comprises instructions, that when executed by the processor, perform the process of: determining an optimal group size for the conversation; determining a current group size for a current group of the conversation, wherein the current group comprises one or more current users; and inviting one or more additional users to the conversation based on the determined optimal group size for the conversation and the determined current group size for the conversation.
13. The electronic computation device of claim 10, wherein the memory further comprises instructions, that when executed by the processor, perform the process of: performing a private subject matter determination on the identified topic; and wherein inviting one or more additional users to the conversation occurs only if the private subject matter determination is negative.
14. The electronic computation device of claim 12, wherein the memory further comprises instructions, that when executed by the processor, perform the process of performing a scroll back analysis for each of the one or more current users as part of the determination of optimal group size.
15. A computer program product for an electronic computation device comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the electronic computation device to perform the process of: receiving a submitted question to a chatbot in a conversation on a messaging platform; identifying a topic of the submitted question; determining a probability that one or more additional users would benefit from an answer to the submitted question; and inviting one or more additional users to the conversation based on the determined probability that one or more additional users would benefit from an answer to the submitted question.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the computer readable storage medium includes program instructions executable by the processor to cause the electronic computation device to perform the process of: determining a probability that one or more additional users have information regarding the topic of the submitted question; and inviting one or more additional users to the conversation based on the determined probability that one or more additional users have information regarding the topic of the submitted question.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the computer readable storage medium includes program instructions executable by the processor to cause the electronic computation device to perform the process of: determining an optimal group size for the conversation; determining a current group size for a current group of the conversation, wherein the current group comprises one or more current users; and inviting one or more additional users to the conversation based on the determined optimal group size for the conversation and the determined current group size for the conversation.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the computer readable storage medium includes program instructions executable by the processor to cause the electronic computation device to perform the process of performing a private subject matter determination on the identified topic; and wherein inviting one or more additional users to the conversation occurs only if the private subject matter determination is negative.
19. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the computer readable storage medium includes program instructions executable by the processor to cause the electronic computation device to perform the process of determining an optimal group size based on performing a scroll back analysis for each of the one or more current users.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the computer readable storage medium includes program instructions executable by the processor to cause the electronic computation device to perform the process of determining an optimal group size based on performing a repeat question analysis for each of the one or more current users.
</claims>
</document>
