<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04H60/33,H04H60/66,H04N21/25,H04N21/422,H04N21/4223,H04N21/466
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MEREDITH, SHELDON KENT
COTTRILL, WILLIAM
HILLIARD, BRANDON B.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59999957
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ENHANCING AUDIENCE ENGAGEMENT VIA A COMMUNICATION NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, capturing first monitoring information associated with an audience that is viewing a presentation, determining an actual audience engagement level by performing pattern recognition on the first monitoring information, comparing the actual audience engagement level with an expected audience engagement level to generate an engagement score for the presentation, and transmitting, to a device, a haptic feedback according to the engagement score during the presenting of the presentation. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A server device, comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: receiving first monitoring information associated with a presentation; filtering the first monitoring information to generate filtered monitoring information that excludes the first monitoring information outside of time periods of active presenting; analyzing the filtered monitoring information to identify a presentation feature associated with audience engagement in the presentation, wherein the presentation feature is further associated with a characteristic of a technique of a presenter of the presentation; submitting the presentation feature to a presentation engagement model to generate an expected audience engagement level; and comparing an actual audience engagement level with the expected audience engagement level for the presentation to generate an engagement score for the presentation.
2. The server device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise submitting an audience feature to an audience engagement model to generate the actual audience engagement level.
3. The server device of claim 2, wherein the operations further comprise analyzing the filtered monitoring information to identify the audience feature associated with audience engagement in the presentation.
4. The server device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise analyzing presentation activity of the first monitoring information to identify the time periods of active presenting.
5. The server device of claim 1, wherein the filtering the first monitoring information is further according to the time periods of active presenting.
6. The server device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving prior monitoring information associated with a prior presenting of the presentation, wherein the prior monitoring information includes presentation features that are associated with the characteristic of the technique of the presenter in the prior presenting; receiving a prior audience engagement level associated with the prior presenting of the presentation; and training the presentation engagement model to generate the expected audience engagement level based on the prior monitoring information and the prior audience engagement level.
7. The server device of claim 6, wherein the operations further comprise transmitting to a notification device, a notification based on the engagement score, wherein the engagement score is determined during the presentation, wherein the notification is transmitted during the presentation, and wherein the notification includes a suggestion for improving the engagement score based on a modification of the characteristic of the technique of the presenter.
8. The server device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a plurality of actual audience engagement levels according to a plurality of audience features associated with a plurality of audience engagements for a plurality of portions of the presentation; and transmitting a notification indicating the plurality of actual audience engagement levels associated with the plurality of portions of the presentation.
9. The server device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise transmitting to a notification device, a notification based on the engagement score, wherein the notification comprises a haptic feedback, via the notification device, of the engagement score to the presenter during the presentation.
10. The server device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: detecting a first audience member in the filtered monitoring information via pattern recognition analysis; determining a first engagement level for the first audience member according to a first audience feature of audience engagement that is associated with the first audience member; and comparing the first engagement level with the expected audience engagement level to generate a first engagement score that is associated with the first audience member.
11. The server device of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise: comparing the first engagement level of the first audience member and the actual audience engagement level to determine a relative engagement level of the first audience member; and generating a notification identifying the first audience member according to a result of the comparing of the first engagement level and the actual audience engagement level.
12. A method, comprising: receiving, by a processing system including a processor, monitoring information associated with a presentation; analyzing, by the processing system, the monitoring information to identify a presentation feature associated with audience engagement in the presentation, wherein the analyzing the monitoring information ignores the monitoring information corresponding to a time when the presentation is not currently active; submitting, by the processing system, the presentation feature to a presentation engagement model to generate an expected audience engagement level; and comparing, by the processing system, an actual audience engagement level with the expected audience engagement level for the presentation to generate an engagement score for the presentation.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising submitting, by the processing system, an audience feature to an audience engagement model to generate the actual audience engagement level.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising: receiving, by the processing system, the monitoring information from a plurality of video cameras that capture a plurality of images of an audience; performing, by the processing system, image recognition on the plurality of images of the audience to identify a plurality of human features that are associated with the audience; and analyzing, by the processing system, the plurality of human features to identify movements, expressions, postures, or combinations thereof, that are associated with an audience feature that is associated with the audience engagement.
15. The method of claim 12, further comprising: receiving, by the processing system, the monitoring information from a plurality of audio microphones that capture a plurality of sounds of an audience; and performing, by the processing system, audio recognition on the plurality of sounds of the audience to identify a plurality of human sounds that are associated with the audience; and analyzing, by the processing system, the plurality of human sounds to identify movements, vocalizations, interactions, or combinations thereof, that are associated with an audience feature that is associated with the audience engagement.
16. The method of claim 12, further comprising: receiving, by the processing system, the monitoring information from a radio frequency receiver that captures wireless communication signals at a location of an audience; and analyzing, by the processing system, the wireless communication signals to identify communications associated with communication devices of the audience, wherein the communications are associated with an audience feature that is associated with the audience engagement.
17. The method of claim 12, further comprising: receiving, by the processing system, the monitoring information from a plurality of video cameras that capture a plurality of images of a presenter; performing, by the processing system, image recognition on the plurality of images of the presenter to identify a plurality of human features that are associated with the presenter; and analyzing, by the processing system, the plurality of human features to identify movements, expressions, postures, or combinations thereof, that are associated with a presentation feature associated with the audience engagement.
18. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: filtering monitoring information to generate filtered monitoring information that excludes the monitoring information outside of time periods of active presenting; identifying a presentation feature associated with audience engagement in a presentation according to the filtered monitoring information, wherein the presentation feature is further associated with a characteristic of a technique of a presenter of the presentation; submitting the presentation feature to a presentation engagement model to generate an expected audience engagement level; comparing an actual audience engagement level with the expected audience engagement level for the presentation to generate an engagement score for the presentation.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein a first location of the presentation is remote from a second location of an audience.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise: analyzing the filtered monitoring information to identify an audience feature associated with the audience engagement in the presentation; and submitting the audience feature to an audience engagement model to generate the actual audience engagement level.
</claims>
</document>
