<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B22F3/105,G06N20/00,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GAMBONE, JR., JUSTIN
GUPTA, VIPUL K.
IYER, NARESH
PING, XIAOHU
ROYCHOWDHURY, SUBHRAJIT
SALASOO, LEMBIT
SHI, XIAOLEI
WANG, MENGLI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69726771
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR DETERMINING A QUALITY SCORE FOR A PART MANUFACTURED BY AN ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING MACHINE
</title>

<abstract>
Determining a quality score for a part manufactured by an additive manufacturing machine based on build parameters and sensor data without the need for extensive physical testing of the part. Sensor data is received from the additive manufacturing machine during manufacture of the part using a first set of build parameters. The first set of build parameters is received. A first algorithm is applied to the first set of build parameters and the received sensor data to generate a quality score. The first algorithm is trained by receiving a reference derived from physical measurements performed on at least one reference part built using a reference set of build parameters. The quality score is output via the communication interface of the device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining a quality score for a part manufactured by an additive manufacturing machine based on sensor data, the method comprising: receiving, via a communication interface of a device comprising a processor, sensor data from the additive manufacturing machine during manufacture of the part using a first set of build parameters; applying a first algorithm to at least the received sensor data to generate a quality score, wherein the first algorithm is trained by receiving a reference derived from physical measurements performed on at least one reference part built using a reference set of build parameters; and outputting the quality score via the communication interface of the device.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving the first set of build parameters, wherein the first algorithm is applied to the received sensor data and the first set of build parameters to generate a quality score.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the reference relates a quantity of at least one anomaly type to the reference set of build parameters.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the reference relates a quantity of the at least one anomaly type to a reference set of sensor data measured during manufacture of the reference part using the reference set of build parameters.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the reference comprises coordinates for plotting the density of the at least one anomaly type relative to the reference set of sensor data.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the reference comprises coefficients of a function relating the density of the at least one anomaly type to the reference set of sensor data.
7. The method of claim 2, further comprising: generating, using the processor of the device, thermal data based on a thermal model of the part derived from the first set of build parameters.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: determining, using the processor of the device, a second set of build parameters using a second algorithm applied to the received sensor data, the determined quality score, and the thermal data, the second algorithm being trained to improve the quality score; and outputting, via the communication interface of the device, the second set of build parameters to the additive manufacturing machine to produce a second part.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor data is received from at least one of an actuator sensor, a melt pool sensor, and an environmental sensor.
10. A system for determining a quality score for a part manufactured by an additive manufacturing machine based on sensor data, the system comprising: a device comprising a communication interface and a processor configured to perform: receiving, via a communication interface of a device comprising a processor, sensor data from the additive manufacturing machine during manufacture of the part using a first set of build parameters; applying a first algorithm to at least the received sensor data to generate a quality score, wherein the first algorithm is trained by receiving a reference derived from physical measurements performed on at least one reference part built using a reference set of build parameters; and outputting the quality score via the communication interface of the device.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to perform: receiving the first set of build parameters, wherein the first algorithm is applied to the received sensor data and the first set of build parameters to generate a quality score.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the reference relates a quantity of at least one anomaly type to the reference set of build parameters.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the reference relates a quantity of the at least one anomaly type to a reference set of sensor data measured during manufacture of the reference part using the reference set of build parameters.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to perform: generating, using the processor of the device, thermal data based on a thermal model of the part derived from the first set of build parameters.
15. The system of claim 14, further comprising: determining, using the processor of the device, a second set of build parameters using a second algorithm applied to the received sensor data, the determined quality score, and the thermal data, the second algorithm being trained to improve the quality score; and outputting, via the communication interface of the device, the second set of build parameters to the additive manufacturing machine to produce a second part.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing program instructions that when executed, in a device comprising a communication interface and a processor, cause the processor to perform a method for determining a quality score for a part manufactured by an additive manufacturing machine based on sensor data, the method comprising: receiving, via a communication interface of a device comprising a processor, sensor data from the additive manufacturing machine during manufacture of the part using a first set of build parameters; applying a first algorithm to at least the received sensor data to generate a quality score, wherein the first algorithm is trained by receiving a reference derived from physical measurements performed on at least one reference part built using a reference set of build parameters; and outputting the quality score via the communication interface of the device.
17. The computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the performed method further comprises: receiving the first set of build parameters, wherein the first algorithm is applied to the received sensor data and the first set of build parameters to generate a quality score.
18. The computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the reference relates a quantity of at least one anomaly type to the reference set of build parameters.
19. The computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the reference relates a quantity of the at least one anomaly type to a reference set of sensor data measured during manufacture of the reference part using the reference set of build parameters.
20. The computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the performed method further comprises: generating, using the processor of the device, thermal data based on a thermal model of the part derived from the first set of build parameters.
</claims>
</document>
