<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,G10L13/04,G10L15/04,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ATLASSIAN
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAR-ON, NOAM
Narayanan, Bharath Booshan Lakshmi
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74043774
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ISSUE TRACKING SYSTEM HAVING A VOICE INTERFACE SYSTEM FOR FACILITATING A LIVE MEETING DIRECTING STATUS UPDATES AND MODIFYING ISSUE RECORDS
</title>

<abstract>
An issue tracking system configured to track issues, tickets, or tasks is described herein. The issue tracking system may include a voice interface system that may be used to create, modify, and delete issue records during a live meeting or event. The voice interface system may be configured to facilitate a live meeting conducted in a particular format or structure. The voice interface system may be adapted to determine a relevance score between a voice input and one or more respective issue records being tracked by the issue tracking system. If the relevancy score satisfies a threshold, a respective issue record may be selected for modification or editing during the live meeting through a series of responsive voice commands or other voice input.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. An issue tracking system having a voice interface for updating issue records tracked by the issue tracking system during a live meeting having multiple participants, the issue tracking system comprising: a terminal device having a display that is configured to display a graphical user interface that includes a set of graphical objects representing a set of issue records being tracked by the issue tracking system; and a voice interface system for facilitating the live meeting with the multiple participants, the voice interface system comprising a processing unit that is configured to: identify a project associated with the set of issue records; provide an audible prompt to a first participant of the multiple participants using an audio output device of the voice interface system; detect a voice input from the first participant using an audio input device of the voice interface system; analyze the voice input to produce a dataset including a set of keywords; determine a relevance percentage for the dataset with respect to at least a first issue record of the set of issue records; in response to the relevance percentage for the first issue record exceeding a threshold, requesting a modification of the first issue record; and in response to the modification of the first issue record, causing a display of a modified graphical object that represents the modification of the first issue record.
2. The issue tracking system of claim 1, wherein: the relevance percentage is a first relevance percentage; the voice interface system is further configured to determine a second relevance percentage with respect to a second issue record of the set of issue records; and in response to both the second relevance percentage and the first relevance percentage exceeding the threshold, prompt a participant to select between the first issue record and the second issue record.
3. The issue tracking system of claim 2, wherein: the participant is prompted to select between the first issue record and the second issue record through the graphical user interface; and the voice interface system is configured to modify either or both of the first relevance percentage or the second relevance percentage in accordance with a selection of either the first or second issue records.
4. The issue tracking system of claim 1, wherein: the relevance percentage is a first relevance percentage; the threshold is a first threshold; the voice interface system is configured to determine a respective relevance percentage for each of the issue records of the set of issue records; in response to none of the respective relevance percentages exceeding the first threshold, computing an epic relevance percentage for the dataset with respect to an epic issue record that relates to an overall goal for the project associated with the set of issue records; and in response to the epic relevance percentage exceeding an epic threshold, creating a new issue record.
5. The issue tracking system of claim 1, wherein the voice interface system is further configured to: provide at least one audible prompt for each issue record of the set of issue records during the live meeting; cause multiple issue records of the issue records to be modified in accordance with a respective voice input received in response to the at least one audible prompt; generate a summary log of modifications to the multiple issue records; and transmit the summary log of modifications to a group of users after the live meeting has ended.
6. A system having a voice interface to facilitate updating issue records tracked by an issue tracking system during a live meeting having multiple participants, the system comprising: a display configured to display a graphical user interface having a set of graphical items that corresponds to a set of issue records being tracked by the issue tracking system; an audio input device configured to receive voice input from the multiple participants; an audio output device configured to produce audio output; and a voice interface system having a processing unit operably coupled to the display, the audio input device, and the audio output device, the processing unit of the voice interface system configured to: detect a first voice input from a first participant of the multiple participants using the audio input device; analyze the first voice input to produce a first extracted content; identify a current issue record of the set of issue records based on the first extracted content; detect a second voice input from the first participant; analyze the second voice input to produce a second extracted content; modify the current issue record based on the second extracted content to produce a modified issue record; cause the modified issue record to be stored in the issue tracking system; and display content associated with the modified issue record on the display.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein: the voice interface system is configured to compute a relevance percentage for the first extracted content with respect to the current issue record; and the current issue record is identified based on the relevance percentage exceeding a threshold.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the voice interface system is configured to identify the first participant as being a user associated with one or more issue records of the set of issue records based on the first voice input.
9. The system of claim 6, wherein the voice interface system is configured to: generate a first audio prompt in response to identifying the current issue record, the first audio prompt including a first query regarding past activity occurring with respect to the current issue record; generate a second audio prompt in response to receiving a first responsive voice input responding to the first audio prompt, the second audio prompt including a second query regarding current activity occurring with respect to the current issue record; generate a third audio prompt in response to receiving a second responsive voice input responding to the second audio prompt, the third audio prompt including a third query regarding future planned activity occurring with respect to the current issue record; receive a third responsive voice input responding to the third audio prompt; and modify the current issue record in accordance with one or more of: the first, second, or third responsive voice inputs.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the first, second, and third audio prompts include content that was extracted from the current issue record.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein a status of the current issue record is changed from pending to complete based, at least in part, on the first voice input.
12. A computer system for conducting a live meeting using a voice interface to update issue records of an issue tracking system during the live meeting, the computer system comprising: a display configured to display a set of graphical items that each corresponds to a respective issue record that is being tracked by the issue tracking system; a terminal device having a processor that is operably coupled to an audio input device, the terminal device configured to: receive a first voice input using the audio input device; select a first issue record in accordance with content extracted from the first voice input; cause a first graphical item to be displayed on the display, the first graphical item corresponding to the first issue record; produce an audible prompt regarding the first issue record; receive a second voice input using the audio input device; extract a dataset including keywords from the second voice input; analyze the second voice input to determine a first action; cause the first issue record to be updated in accordance with the first action and the keywords of the dataset; and modify the first graphical item in accordance with the update to the first issue record.
13. The computer system of claim 12, wherein: selecting the first issue record in accordance with extracted content comprises: determining a relevance percentage for the content extracted from the first voice input with respect to the first issue record; and selecting the first issue record in response to the respective relevance percentage exceeding a threshold.
14. The computer system of claim 12, wherein: selecting the first issue record in accordance with extracted content comprises: determining a respective relevance percentage for the content extracted from the first voice input with respect to each of multiple issue records; and selecting the first issue record in response to the relevance percentage being largest for the first issue record as compared to other issue records of the multiple issue records.
15. The computer system of claim 12, wherein: the first issue record is one of a set of issue records associated with a project; and selecting the first issue record in accordance with extracted content comprises: determining a relevance for each of the issue records of the set of issue records; in response to none of the determined relevancies exceeding a threshold, identifying an epic issue record; creating a new issue record using content from the epic issue record; and selecting the new issue record as the first issue record.
16. The computer system of claim 12, wherein: the audible prompt regarding the first issue record includes a query regarding one or more of: a past activity that has occurred in the past with respect to the first issue record; a planned activity that is planned to occur in the future with respect to the first issue record; or a problem or issue with respect to the first issue record.
17. A system having a voice-activated interface for an issue tracking system that tracks issue records in a database, the voice-activated interface configured to facilitate a live update meeting, the system comprising: a display displaying a graphical user interface depicting multiple graphical objects, each graphical object corresponding to an issue record of a set of issue records being tracked by the issue tracking system; and a terminal device having an audio input device, an audio output device, and a processor configured to: receive a voice input from a participant of a group of participants attending the live update meeting, the voice input received using the audio input device; analyze the voice input to classify a user activity with respect to a respective issue record of the set of issue records; in response to the user activity being classified as related to past activity, modify a status of the respective issue record in accordance with the voice input; in response to the user activity being classified as related to planned activity, modify the respective issue record to include content that corresponds to an activity extracted from the voice input; in response to the user activity being classified as related to a problem or issue, modify the respective issue record to include content that corresponds to the problem or issue content extracted from the voice input; and cause a display of a respective graphical object in the graphical user interface, the respective graphical object corresponding to the modified respective issue record.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the terminal device is configured to select the respective issue record based on content extracted from the voice input.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein: the terminal device is configured to produce a series of audible prompts, each audible prompt corresponding to a respective issue record of the set of issue records; the terminal device is configured to receive a series of voice inputs, each voice input received in response to a respective audible prompt; and the terminal device is configured to update respective issue records in accordance with a respective voice input of the series of voice inputs.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein: the terminal device is configured to generate a meeting summary that includes a list of updates performed during the live update meeting; and the meeting summary is transmitted to one or more of the group of participants of the live update meeting.
</claims>
</document>
