<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T11/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
KONGOT, APARNA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71836083
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENHANCEMENT LAYERS FOR DATA VISUALIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
Enhancement layers for data visualization over data sets are provided herein, as is a process for performing data visualization enhancement operations using enhancement layers. A data set may be received for display. A first display layer may be generated. The first display layer may include a base layer rendering the data set in a table. A plurality of data elements in the data set may be identified as having a relationship. The relationship may be identified by a machine-learning process. A second display layer may be generated. The second display layer may include an enhancement layer rendering the relationship between the identified plurality of data elements. The first display layer may be displayed. The second display layer may be displayed over the first display layer. The layers may be visually aligned based on the plurality of data elements.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more memories; one or more processing units coupled to the one or more memories; and one or more computer-readable storage media storing instructions that, when loaded into the one or more memories, cause the one or more processing units to perform operations comprising: receiving a data set for display; generating a first display, the generating comprising rendering the data set in a table, the table comprising a plurality of cells organized into a plurality of columns and a plurality of rows, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of columns correspond to fields of the table and at least a portion of the cells of one or more rows of the plurality of rows comprise a value from the data set for each of one or more columns corresponding to the fields of the table; identifying a plurality of data elements in the data set having a relationship; generating a second display, wherein the second display comprises at least a portion of the table, and the generating a second display comprises one or more operations selected from the group consisting of: (1) rendering a connector showing a relationship between: (A) a first cell of a first row of the plurality of rows at a first column of the plurality of columns and a second cell of a second row of the plurality of rows at the first column; or (B) a third cell of the first row at a first field of the fields of the table and a fourth cell of the first row at a second field of the fields of the table; (2) rendering a logic bubble comprising text describing the identified relationship; and (3) obscuring at least a portion of the plurality of cells, where obscured cells are not identified as having the relationship.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the generating a second display is performed at least in part using a machine-learning algorithm.
3. 3-5. (canceled)
6. One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media storing computer-executable instructions for causing a computing system to perform a method comprising: displaying a data set comprised of a plurality of data elements, wherein the data set is displayed in a first display, the first display comprising a table comprising a plurality of cells organized into a plurality of columns and a plurality of rows, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of columns correspond to fields of the table and at least a portion of the cells of one or more rows of the plurality of rows comprise a value from the data set for each of one or more columns corresponding to the fields of the table; identifying one or more relationships between respective sets of data elements of the plurality of data elements; generating a second display, wherein the second display comprises at least a portion of the table, and the generating a second display comprises one or more operations selected from the group consisting of: (1) rendering a connector showing a relationship between: (A) a first cell of a first row of the plurality of rows at a first column of the plurality of columns and a second cell of a second row of the plurality of rows at the first column; or (B) a third cell of the first row at a first field of the fields of the table and a fourth cell of the first row at a second field of the plurality of fields; (2) rendering a logic bubble comprising text describing the identified relationship; and (3) obscuring at least a portion of the cells, where obscured cells are not identified as having the relationship.
7. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 6, wherein at least one of the one or more relationships is identified via a machine-learning algorithm.
8. 8-12. (canceled)
13. A method, implementing in a computing system comprising a processor and one or more memories coupled to the processor, the method comprising: displaying a data set in a first display, the first display comprising a rendering of the data set in a table, the table comprising a plurality of cells organized into a plurality of columns and a plurality of rows, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of columns correspond to fields of the table and at least a portion of the cells of one or more rows of the plurality of rows comprise a value from the data set for each of one or more columns corresponding to the fields of the table; analyzing the data set to determine a relationship between two or more elements in the data set; and generating a second display, wherein the second display comprises at least a portion of the table, and the generating a second display comprises one or more operations selected from the group consisting of: (1) rendering a connector showing a relationship between: (A) a first cell of a first row of the plurality of rows at a first column of the plurality of columns and a second cell of a second row of the plurality of rows at the first column; or (B) a third cell of the first row at a first field of the fields of the table and a fourth cell of the first row at a second field of the fields of the table; (2) rendering a logic bubble comprising text describing the identified relationship; and (3) obscuring at least a portion of the plurality of cells, where obscured cells are not identified as having the relationship.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the relationship is determined via a machine-learning algorithm.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the second display is generated via a machine-learning algorithm.
16. 16-20. (canceled)
21. The system of claim 1, wherein the first display is a first display layer and the second display is a second display layer, and the second display layer is displayed over the first display layer
22. The system of claim 21, the operations further comprising: aligning the first display layer and the second display layer.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the aligning is based at least in part on a column of the table.
24. The system of claim 22, wherein the aligning is based at least in part on metadata for the second display layer.
25. The system of claim 21, wherein generating a second display comprises obscuring at least a portion of the cells, the obscuring comprising obscuring multiple rows for at least one column of the table to provide an obscured region.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein generating a second display comprises rendering a logic bubble over at least a portion of the obscured region.
27. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: receiving user input providing a first value for a fifth cell of the table, wherein the identifying a plurality of data elements in the data set having a relationship comprises identifying a relationship between the first value and at least a second value for a sixth cell of the table.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein the relationship provides an updated value for the sixth cell of the table.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein generating a second display comprises rendering a logic bubble describing the updated value.
30. The system of claim 28, wherein generating a second display comprises rendering a logic bubble describing a difference between the first value of the fifth cell and a third value of the fifth cell, the third value being a value in the data set prior to receiving the user input.
31. The system of claim 1, wherein generating a second display comprises rendering a connector showing a relationship between a first cell of a first row of the plurality of rows at a first column of the plurality of columns and a second cell of a second row of the plurality of rows at the first column.
32. The system of claim 1, wherein generating a second display comprises rendering a connector showing a relationship between a third cell of the first row at a first field of the fields of the table and a fourth cell of the first row at a second field of the fields of the table.
33. The system of claim 1, wherein the relationship is identified by a machine-learning process.
</claims>
</document>
