<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G16H15/00,G16H30/40,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AIDENCE
AIDENCE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARTE, MARK-JAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60020562
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER-AIDED DIAGNOSTICS USING DEEP NEURAL NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for determining a pathology in 3D image data is describe wherein the method may comprise:receiving at least a first 3D image of a body part, the 3D image comprising voxels associated with a predetermined image volume; a first 3D convolutional neural network determining a position of a volume of interest (VOI) in the image volume of the first 3D image, the VOI being associated with a pathology of the body part, the VOI defining a sub-volume of the image volume; determining first VOI voxels by selecting voxels of the first 3D image that have a position within the VOI as determined by the first 3D convolution neural network and providing the first VOI voxels to the input of a second 3D convolutional neural network; the second 3D convolutional ON neural network, determining a target label value on the basis of at least the first VOI voxels, the target label value being indicative of the presence or absence of a pathology in the VOI; and, generating a medical report by associating the target label value determined by the second 3D convolutional neural network with text and/or sentences representing a description of the pathology.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for determining a pathology in three-dimensional (3D) image data comprising steps of: receiving at least a first 3D image of a body part, the first 3D image comprising voxels associated with a predetermined image volume; providing the first 3D image to an input of a first 3D convolutional neural network, the first 3D convolutional network being trained to determine a position of a volume of interest (VOI) in the image volume of the first 3D image, the VOI being associated with a part of the body part, the VOI defining a sub-volume of the image volume; receiving a position of the VOI from an output of the first 3D convolutional neural network and determining first VOI voxels by selecting voxels of the first 3D image that have a position within the VOI providing the first VOI voxels to an input of a second 3D convolutional neural network, the second 3D convolutional neural network being trained to determine a target label value based on at least the first VOI voxels, the target label value being indicative of a presence or absence of the pathology in the VOI; and, receiving the target label value associated with the first VOI from an output of the second 3D convolutional neural network and generating a medical report by associating the target label value with text and/or sentences representing a description of the pathology.
2. The method according to claim 1 further comprising steps of: retrieving a 3D probability map associated with the VOI voxels from a convolutional layer of the second 3D convolutional neural network and using the 3D probability map as input to a backpropagation process for generating a 3D saliency map associated with the VOI voxels; and generating an annotated 3D image of the pathology in the VOI by using the 3D saliency map to identify voxels in the VOI that made a substantial contribution to the determination of the target label value by the second 3D convolutional neural network.
3. The method according to claim 2 further comprising a step of: inserting the annotated 3D image or one or more two-dimensional (2D) slices of the annotated 3D image in the report.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first 3D image includes a sequence of images of a first image plane, the method further comprising steps of: receiving a second 3D image of the body part, the second 3D image including a sequence of images of a second image plane; determining second VOI voxels by selecting voxels of the second 3D image that have a position within the VOI; and the second 3D convolutional neural network, determining a target label value on the basis of the first and second VOI voxels.
5. The method according to claim 4 wherein the second 3D convolutional neural network includes at least a first plurality of 3D convolutional neural network layers forming a first pathway through the second 3D convolutional neural network and a second plurality of 3D convolutional neural network layers forming a second pathway through the second 3D convolutional neural network, the first plurality of 3D convolutional neural network layers being configured to process the first VOI voxels and the second plurality of 3D convolutional neural network layers being configured to process the second VOI voxels.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein one or both of the first and second 3D convolutional neural network includes one or more noise layers.
7. A computer-implemented method for training one or more 3D deep neural networks in a system that is configured to determine a pathology of a body part in 3D image data, the method comprising steps of: a computer receiving a 3D image data training set of a medical study, the 3D image data training set comprising 3D images of the body part, a 3D image comprising voxels associated with a predetermined image volume and being associated with a medical report comprising computer-readable text parts and/or sentences indicative of an absence or presence of the pathology in the 3D image; for each said 3D image of the 3D image training data, forming a 3D bounding box, the 3D bounding box forming a sub-volume in the predetermined image volume of the 3D image, the sub-volume defining a volume of interest (VOI), the VOI including a part of the body part that may comprise the pathology; for each said 3D image of the 3D image training data, determining a position of the VOI in the predetermined image volume and determining voxels that are positioned in the VOI; and, training a first 3D convolutional neural network using the voxels of each said VOI as input and the position of each said VOI as targets.
8. The method according to claim 7, further comprising steps of: for each said 3D image of the 3D image training data, processing computer-readable text and/or phrases of the medical report associated with the VOI for the 3D image for producing a target label value, the target label value being indicative of an absence or presence of the pathology of the body part in the VOI for the 3D image; training a second 3D convolutional neural network using the voxels of each said VOI as input and the target label values associated with each said VOI as a targets.
9. The method according to claim 8 wherein said processing computer-readable text and/or phrases includes: using a decision tree for describing how an absence or presence of one or more phrases and/or words in the computer-readable text parts and/or sentences of the medical report determines the target label value.
10. A neural network system implemented on a computer, the system comprising one or more 3D deep neural networks, wherein the one or more deep neural networks are trained in accordance with the method according to claim 7.
11. A computer system adapted to determine a pathology in three-dimensional (3D) image data comprising: a storage medium having computer readable program code stored therein, the code including a first and second 3D convolutional neural network, and one or more processors, coupled to the computer readable storage medium, wherein upon executing the computer readable program code, the system carrying out operations comprising: receiving at least a first 3D image of a body part, the first 3D image comprising voxels associated with a predetermined image volume; providing the first 3D image to an input of the first 3D convolutional neural network, the first 3D convolutional network being trained to determine a position of a volume of interest (VOI) in the image volume of the first 3D image, the VOI being associated with a part of the body part, the VOI defining a sub-volume of the image volume; receiving a position of the VOI from an output of the first 3D convolutional neural network and determining first VOI voxels by selecting voxels of the first 3D image that have a position within the VOI; providing the first VOI voxels to an input of the second 3D convolutional neural network, the second 3D convolutional neural network being trained to determine a target label value based on at least the first VOI voxels, the target label value being indicative of a presence or absence of the pathology in the VOI; and, receiving the target label value associated with the first VOI form the output of the second 3D convolutional neural network and generating a medical report by associating the target label value with text and/or sentences representing a description of the pathology.
12. The computer system according to claim 11 wherein the operations further comprise: retrieving a 3D probability map associated with the VOI voxels from a convolutional layer of the second convolutional neural network and using the 3D probability map as input to a backpropagation process for generating a 3D saliency map associated with the VOI voxels; and generating an annotated 3D image of the pathology in the VOI by using the 3D saliency map to identify voxels in the VOI that made a substantial contribution to the determination of the target label value by the second 3D convolutional neural network.
13. The computer system according to claim 12 wherein the operations further comprise: inserting the annotated 3D image or one or more two-dimensional (2D) slices of the annotated 3D image in the report.
14. The computer system according to claim 11, wherein the first 3D image includes a sequence of images of a first image plane, and wherein the operations further comprise: receiving a second 3D image of the body part, the second 3D image including a sequence of images of a second image plane; determining second VOI voxels by selecting voxels of the second 3D image that have a position within the VOI; and the second 3D convolutional neural network, determining a target label value on the basis of the first and second VOI voxels.
15. The computer system according to claim 14 wherein the second 3D convolutional neural network includes at least a first plurality of 3D convolutional neural network layers forming a first pathway through the second 3D convolutional neural network and a second plurality of 3D convolutional neural network layers forming a second pathway through the second 3D convolutional neural network, the first plurality of 3D convolutional neural network layers being configured to process the first VOI voxels and the second plurality of 3D convolutional neural network layers being configured to process the second VOI voxels.
16. A computer program product comprising software code portions configured for, when run in the memory of a computer, executing the method steps according to claim 1.
17. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the generating of the medical report including if the target label value is within a predetermined first range, comprises steps of determining a first text string describing that the pathology has been detected and if a target label value is within a predetermined second range, determining a second text string describing that the pathology has not been detected; and, optionally, inserting the first text string or second text string into a text string representing a report template.
18. The method of claim 7, wherein the formation of the 3D bounding box being based on 2D regions of interest (ROIs) in slices of the 3D image.
19. The method of claim 4, wherein the first image plane is a sagittal plane and the second image plane is a coronal plane.
20. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the first image plane is a sagittal plane and the second image plane is a coronal plane.
</claims>
</document>
