<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9535,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHAO, HAIFENG
MENG, MENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123975
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEQUENCE MODELING FOR SEARCHES
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments provide a system for performing sequence modeling for searches. During operation, the system obtains a sequence of jobs associated with activity by a member of an online system. Next, the system applies a word embedding model of a set of job histories to attributes of individual jobs in the sequence of jobs to produce embeddings for the individual jobs. The system then generates a set of power means from the embeddings. Finally, the system outputs the set of power means as an encoded representation of the sequence of jobs, wherein the set of power means is used in generating job recommendations related to the member.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: obtaining a sequence of jobs associated with activity by a member of an online system; applying, by one or more computer systems, a word embedding model of a set of job histories to attributes of individual jobs in the sequence of jobs to produce embeddings for the individual jobs; generating, by the one or more computer systems, a set of power means from the embeddings; and outputting the set of power means as an encoded representation of the sequence of jobs, wherein the set of power means is used in generating job recommendations related to the member.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying the word embedding model to additional attributes of a job listed in the online system to produce an additional embedding; and outputting the additional embedding with the encoded representation.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying the word embedding model to additional attributes of a job search query from the member to produce an additional embedding; and outputting the additional embedding with the encoded representation.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the encoded representation of the sequence of jobs as the set of power means from the embeddings comprises: calculating the set of power means from the embeddings based on a set of parameter values for a power mean function.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the set of parameter values comprises: negative infinity; positive infinity; one; and an odd number greater than one.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating the word embedding model based on attribute groupings that represent the set of job histories.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein generating the word embedding model based on attribute groupings that represent the set of job histories comprises: obtaining additional attributes from a member profile in the online system; and including standardized versions of the additional attributes in an attribute grouping representing a job history in the member profile.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the attribute grouping comprises at least one of: a previous title; a current title; and a company.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the attribute grouping comprises at least one of: a school; a field of study; and an industry.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein outputting the set of power means as the encoded representation of the sequence of jobs comprises: inputting the encoded representation and an additional embedding for a job into a machine learning model; receiving, as output from the machine learning model, a score representing a likelihood of a positive response to the job by the member; and generating a recommendation of the job to the member based on the score.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequence of jobs comprises at least one of: a job history of the member; a job search history of the member; and a job application history of the member.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the attributes comprise at least one of: a title; a company; and an industry.
13. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: obtain a sequence of jobs associated with activity by a member of an online system; apply a word embedding model of a set of job histories to attributes of individual jobs in the sequence of jobs to produce embeddings for the individual jobs; generate a set of power means from the embeddings; and output the set of power means as an encoded representation of the sequence of jobs, wherein the set of power means is used in generating job recommendations related to the member.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein generating the encoded representation of the sequence of jobs as the set of power means from the embeddings comprises: calculating the set of power means from the embeddings based on a set of parameter values for a power mean function.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the set of parameter values comprises: negative infinity; positive infinity; one; and an odd number greater than one.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the memory further stores instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: generate the word embedding model based on attribute groupings that represent the set of job histories.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein generating the word embedding model based on attribute groupings that represent the set of job histories comprises: obtaining additional attributes from a member profile in the online system; and including standardized versions of the additional attributes in an attribute grouping representing a job history in the member profile.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein outputting the encoded representation for use in recommending jobs to the member comprises: inputting the encoded representation and an additional embedding of a job into a machine learning model; receiving, as output from the machine learning model, a score representing a likelihood of a positive response to the job by the member; and generating a recommendation of the job to the member based on the score.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein the sequence of jobs comprises at least one of: a job history of the member; a job search history of the member; and a job application history of the member.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform a method, the method comprising: obtaining a sequence of jobs associated with activity by a member of an online system; applying a word embedding model of a set of job histories to attributes of individual jobs in the sequence of jobs to produce embeddings for the individual jobs; generating a set of power means from the embeddings; and outputting the set of power means as an encoded representation of the sequence of jobs, wherein the set of power means is used in generating job recommendations related to the member.
</claims>
</document>
