<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/26,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QOMPLX
</assignee>

<inventors>
CRABTREE, JASON
SELLERS, ANDREW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67214448
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR COMPREHENSIVE DATA LOSS PREVENTION AND COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method to identify and prevent cybersecurity attacks on modern, highly-interconnected networks, to identify attacks before data loss occurs, using a combination of human level, device level, system level, and organizational level monitoring.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for comprehensive data loss prevention and compliance management, comprising: a computing device comprising a processor and a memory; a time series database module comprising a first plurality of programming instructions stored in the memory and operating on the processor, wherein the first plurality of programming instructions, when operating on the processor, cause the computing device to: monitor a plurality of network events on a network; and produce time-series data comprising a record of a network event and the time at which the event occurred; an observation and state estimation module comprising a second plurality of programming instructions stored in the memory and operating on the processor, wherein the second plurality of programming instructions, when operating on the processor, cause the computing device to: monitor a plurality of connected resources on the network; and produce a cyber-physical graph representing the plurality of connected resources, the cyber-physical graph comprising the logical relationships between the plurality of connected resources and the physical relationships between any connected resources comprising a hardware device; an activity monitoring engine comprising a third plurality of programming instructions stored in the memory and operating on the processor, wherein the third plurality of programming instructions, when operating on the processor, cause the computing device to: generate expected behavior data of one or more of people, devices, systems, and organizations within the network by applying a behavioral model to the cyber-physical graph; generate actual behavior data of the one or more of people, devices, systems, and organizations within the network from the time-series data; detect deviations of the actual behavior data from the expected behavior data using at least one comparative algorithm; and when deviations are detected, send information about the deviation to a risk analysis and scoring engine; and a risk analysis and scoring engine comprising a fourth plurality of programming instructions stored in the memory and operating on the processor, wherein the fourth plurality of programming instructions, when operating on the processor, cause the computing device to: receive deviation information from the activity monitoring engine; analyze the severity of the threat posed by the deviation using at least one analysis algorithm; generate a risk score based on a plurality of factors which indicate the severity of the threat; and display the risk score in text and graphical form.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the risk analysis and scoring engine further generates an impact assessment score for each affected resource by determining an impact on the network using the cyber-physical graph.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the the impact assessment score further comprises the calculation of the overall impact of a cyberattack, wherein the calculation is based at least in part on the impact assessment score for each resource affected by the cyberattack.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the detection of deviations is based in part on a comparison of relationships between resources against known security vulnerabilities.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the risk score is based at least in part on the results of the comparison against known security vulnerabilities.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the observation and state estimation module is further configured to produce a visualization based at least in part on at least a portion of the time-series data, wherein the visualization illustrates changes to the data over time.
7. A method for comprehensive data loss prevention and compliance management, comprising the steps of: monitoring a plurality of network events on a network; producing time-series data comprising a record of a network event and the time at which the event occurred; monitoring a plurality of connected resources on the network; producing a cyber-physical graph representing the plurality of connected resources, the cyber-physical graph comprising the logical relationships between the plurality of connected resources and the physical relationships between any connected resources comprising a hardware device; generating expected behavior data of one or more of people, devices, systems, and organizations within the network by applying a behavioral model to the cyber-physical graph; generating actual behavior data of the one or more of people, devices, systems, and organizations within the network from the time-series data; detect deviations of the actual behavior data from the expected behavior data using at least one comparative algorithm; and when deviations are detected: analyzing the severity of the threat posed by the deviation using at least one analysis algorithm; generating a risk score based on a plurality of factors which indicate the severity of the threat; and displaying the risk score in text and graphical form.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the risk analysis and scoring engine further generates an impact assessment score for each affected resource by determining an impact on the network using the cyber-physical graph.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the impact assessment score further comprises the calculation of the overall impact of a cyberattack, wherein the calculation is based at least in part on the impact assessment score for each resource affected by the cyberattack.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the detection of deviations is based in part on a comparison of relationships between resources against known security vulnerabilities.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the risk score is based at least in part on the results of the comparison against known security vulnerabilities.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein the observation and state estimation module is further configured to produce a visualization based at least in part on at least a portion of the time-series data, wherein the visualization illustrates changes to the data over time.
</claims>
</document>
