<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J9/16,G06T11/00,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NVIEW MEDICAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
ATRIA, CRISTIAN
AYYAGARI, DEVI
WUNDERLICH, JUSTINA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69774177
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-SCALE IMAGE RECONSTRUCTION OF THREE-DIMENSIONAL OBJECTS
</title>

<abstract>
A technology for reconstructing an image of a three-dimensional object. In one example, a projection image dataset can be obtained from an imaging data detector and a reduced image dataset that has a lower quantity of data as compared to a quantity of data of the projection image dataset can be generated from the projection image dataset. An image remainder dataset can be generated to indicate an image difference between the projection image dataset and the reduced image dataset. A first scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object can be generated using the reconstruction technique and the reduced image dataset, and a second scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object can be generated using the iterative reconstruction technique and the image remainder dataset. In another example, a first scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object can be generated using a low-resolution reconstruction technique, and a second scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object can be generated by from an image dataset that compares the projection imaging dataset with the virtual projection of the first low-resolution reconstruction. A multi-scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object can be generated using a reconstruction technique and the first scale image reconstruction and the second scale image reconstruction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An imaging system, comprising: at least one memory device including instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the imaging system to: receive a projection image dataset generated by at least one imaging data detector in response to detecting image data to allow for generating reconstruction image data of a three-dimensional object using a reconstruction technique; generate a reduced image dataset from the projection image dataset, wherein the reduced image dataset has a lower quantity of data as compared to a quantity of data of the projection image dataset received from the at least one imaging data detector; generate an image remainder dataset to indicate an image difference between the projection image dataset and the reduced image dataset; and perform the reconstruction technique to generate the reconstruction image data for the three-dimensional object, including at least generating (i) a first scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object using the reduced image dataset, and (ii) at least a second scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object using the image remainder dataset.
2. The imaging system in claim 1, wherein the reconstruction technique further includes: (iii) a multi-scale image recombination of the three-dimensional object using the first scale image reconstruction and the second scale image reconstruction which is used for display to a display device
3. The imaging system in claim 1, where both of the first and second scale image reconstructions are provided as an input to a computer vision algorithm or to a robot.
4. The imaging system in claim 1, wherein the reduced dataset is encoded using a data compression technique.
5. The system in claim 1, wherein the remainder dataset is encoded using a data compression technique.
6. The imaging system in claim 1, wherein the first scale image reconstruction and the second scale image reconstruction are generated in parallel.
7. The imaging system in claim 1, wherein generating the first scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object includes: forward projecting a ground truth image volume to produce a two-dimensional set of projection images; determining a difference between the projection image dataset and the two-dimensional set of projection images; generating an update volume by back projecting the difference into a three-dimensional space; and incorporating the update volume into a reconstruction of the image of the three-dimensional object.
8. The imaging system in claim 1, wherein generating the first scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object includes applying a density constraint to the first scale image reconstruction.
9. The imaging system in claim 1, wherein generating the second scale image reconstruction includes increasing a resolution of a region of interest within the second scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object.
10. The imaging system in claim 1, wherein the second scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object is a higher resolution as compared to a resolution of the first scale image reconstruction.
11. The system in claim 1, wherein the second scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object is of higher depth as compared to the depth of the first scale image reconstruction.
12. The imaging system in claim 1, wherein the second scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object is a same resolution as the first scale image reconstruction and the second scale image reconstruction is shifted in position to create an interleaved volume with the first scale image reconstruction.
13. The imaging system of claim 1, wherein the first scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object and the second scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object are displayed to a display device.
14. The imaging system in claim 1, wherein the memory device further includes instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to send the reduced image dataset and the image remainder dataset to a remote data center that has computing resources configured to perform the reconstruction technique to generate the reconstruction image data for the three-dimensional object.
15. The imaging system of claim 1, wherein the reconstruction technique is an iterative reconstruction technique or a filtered backprojection technique.
16. The imaging system of claim 1, wherein the projection image dataset is generated by x-rays or by magnetic resonance.
17. A computer implemented method, comprising: receiving, from a client, image datasets at a data center that has computing resources to perform a reconstruction technique to generate reconstruction image data for a three-dimensional object, wherein the image datasets include (i) a reduced image dataset that has a lower quantity of data as compared to a resolution of a projection image dataset obtained from at least one imaging data detector configured to receive x-ray radiation from at least one radiation source, and (ii) an image remainder dataset that indicates an image resolution difference between the projection image dataset and the reduced image dataset; initiating, using the reconstruction technique, a first scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object using the reduced image dataset, a second scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object using the image remainder dataset, and a multi-scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object using the first scale image reconstruction and the second scale image reconstruction; and causing the multi-scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object to be displayed to a display device, wherein the multi-scale image reconstruction provides a higher-resolution view of the three-dimensional object as compared to resolution views of the first scale image reconstruction and the second scale image reconstruction.
18. The method in claim 11, wherein the first scale image reconstruction and the second scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object are performed in parallel using the computing resources of the data center.
19. The method in claim 11, further comprising: sending the first scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object to the client for display to a display device directly after generating the first scale image reconstruction; and sending the second scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object to the client for display to the display device directly after generating the second scale image reconstruction.
20. The method in claim 11, wherein causing the multi-scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object to be displayed to the display device further comprises sending the multi-scale image reconstruction to the client which is configured to display the multi-scale image reconstruction to the display device.
21. The method in claim 11, wherein causing the multi-scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object to be displayed to the display device further comprises sending a render of the multi-scale image reconstruction to the client for display to the display device.
22. The method of claim 16, wherein the projection image dataset includes an ordered subset of projection image data generated by the at least one imaging data detector to allow reconstruction of the three-dimensional object to start prior to receiving a complete set of projection images.
23. An imaging system, comprising: at least one memory device including instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the imaging system to: receive a projection image dataset generated by at least one imaging data detector in response to detecting imaging data to allow for generating reconstruction image data of a three-dimensional object using a reconstruction technique; perform a reconstruction technique to generate the reconstruction image data of the three-dimensional object, including at least generating (i) a first scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object, generate an image remainder dataset by forward projecting the first scale reconstruction of the three dimensional object and comparing it to the imaging data; and perform a reconstruction technique to generate the reconstruction of the image remainder dataset to generate a second scale image reconstruction
24. The system of claim 23, where combining the datasets to generate the second scale image reconstruction of the three-dimensional object of higher resolution than the first scale reconstruction and display them in a display device.
25. The system of claim 23, wherein both the first and second scale image reconstructions are provided as an input to a computer vision algorithm.
26. The system of claim 23, wherein the reconstruction image data is a subset of data of a region of interest in higher resolution and in higher image depth.
27. The system of claim 23, wherein the first scale image reconstruction is produced using a reduced image dataset, wherein the reduced image dataset has a lower quantity of data as compared to a quantity of data of the projection image dataset received from the at least one imaging data detector and wherein the reconstruction technique further includes (ii) a second scale image reconstruction using an image remainder dataset, wherein the image remainder dataset is generated as an image difference between the projection image dataset and the forward projection of the first scale reconstruction of the three dimensional object.
</claims>
</document>
