<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F8/61,G06N20/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
KALER CHRISTOPHER G.
MUNJAL, ASHISH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70465256
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CREATING AND DEPLOYING PACKAGES TO DEVICES IN A FLEET BASED ON OPERATIONS DERIVED FROM A MACHINE LEARNING MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for creating and deploying packages to devices in a fleet based on operations derived from a machine learning model or other automated feedback models are provided. As an example, a method for creating a package, including a payload, for deployment to a set of devices is provided. The method includes receiving a payload, where the payload has an associated set of payload parameters concerning a deployment of the payload to the set of devices. The method further includes using a processor, automatically creating the package for the deployment to the set of devices, where the package comprises instructions for deploying the payload to the set of devices, and where the instructions specify at least one of a plurality of operations derived from a machine learning model based at least on a subset of the associated set of payload parameters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for creating a package, including a payload, for deployment to a set of devices, the method comprising: receiving [[a]]the payload, wherein the payload has an associated set of payload parameters concerning a deployment of the payload to the set of devices; and using a processor, automatically creating the package for the deployment to the set of devices, wherein the package comprises instructions for deploying the payload to the set of devices, and wherein the instructions specify at least one of a plurality of operations derived from a machine learning model based at least on a subset of the associated set of payload parameters.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the automatically creating the package for the deployment to the set of devices comprises processing metadata, or other submission parameters, associated with the payload.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model is trained based on training data comprising a mapping between the at least the subset of the associated set of payload parameters and a set of labels classifying an impact of deploying the payload to the set of devices.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the set of labels comprises a first label classifying the impact as impactful and a second label classifying the impact as impact-less.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of operations comprises actions related to which information to monitor and any trigger thresholds associated with monitored information.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of operations comprises actions related to a schedule associated with the deployment of the package to the set of devices.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of operations comprises actions related to gates associated with the deployment of the package to the set of devices.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of operations comprises actions related to watchdogs associated with the deployment of the package to the set of devices.
9. A method for deploying a package to a fleet, the method comprising: assessing the fleet to determine a set of fleet parameters associated with a deployment of the package to the fleet; and using a processor, automatically creating a deployment plan for deploying the package to the fleet, wherein the deployment plan comprises instructions for deploying the package to the fleet, and wherein the instructions specify at least one of a plurality of operations derived from a machine learning model based at least on a subset of the set of fleet parameters.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the assessing the fleet comprises processing metadata associated with the fleet.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the machine learning model is trained based on training data comprising a mapping between the at least the subset of the fleet parameters and at least one label related to the deployment plan.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the machine learning model is trained based on feedback concerning the deployment of the package to the fleet.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of operations comprises actions corresponding to monitoring the deployment of the package to the fleet.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of operations comprises actions corresponding to generating information regarding a minimum scanning tree comprising a set of devices in the fleet.
15. A system for deploying a package to a fleet, the system configured to: assess the fleet to determine a set of fleet parameters associated with a deployment of the package to the fleet; and using a processor, automatically create a deployment plan for deploying the package to the fleet, wherein the deployment plan comprises instructions for deploying the package to the fleet, and wherein the instructions specify at least one of a plurality of operations derived from a machine learning model based at least on a subset of the set of fleet parameters.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the system is further configured to process metadata associated with the fleet as part of assessing the fleet.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the machine learning model is trained based on training data comprising a mapping between the at least the subset of the fleet parameters and at least one label related to the deployment plan.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the machine learning model is trained based on feedback concerning the deployment of the package to the fleet.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the plurality of operations comprises actions corresponding to monitoring the deployment of the package to the fleet.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the plurality of operations comprises actions corresponding to generating information regarding a minimum spanning tree comprising a set of devices in the fleet.
21. A method for creating a package, including a payload, for deployment to a set of devices, the method comprising: receiving the payload, wherein the payload has an associated set of payload parameters concerning a deployment of the payload to the set of devices; and using a processor, automatically creating the package for the deployment to the set of devices, wherein the package comprises instructions for deploying the payload to the set of devices, and wherein the instructions specify at least one of a plurality of operations derived from an automated feedback model based at least on a subset of the associated set of payload parameters.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the automatically creating the package for the deployment to the set of devices comprises processing metadata, or other submission parameters, associated with the payload.
23. The method of claim 21, wherein the automated feedback model comprises a reinforcement learning model that is trained based on training data comprising a mapping between the at least the subset of the associated set of payload parameters and a set of labels classifying an impact of deploying the payload to the set of devices.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the set of labels comprises a first label classifying the impact as impactful and a second label classifying the impact as impact-less.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein the plurality of operations comprises actions related to which information to monitor and any trigger thresholds associated with monitored information.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein the plurality of operations comprises actions related to a schedule associated with the deployment of the package to the set of devices.
27. The method of claim 21, wherein the plurality of operations comprises actions related to gates associated with the deployment of the package to the set of devices.
28. The method of claim 21, wherein the plurality of operations comprises actions related to watchdogs associated with the deployment of the package to the set of devices.
</claims>
</document>
