<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/36,G06F3/01,G06K9/00,G06N99/00,G06Q20/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NCR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOHAMMAD, JAMAL MOHIUDDIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70159649
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Gesture Based Authentication for Payment in Virtual Reality
</title>

<abstract>
A computer implemented method includes receiving training input corresponding to multiple different prompted user gestures, training a machine learning system on the training input, receiving an authentication input based on an authentication gesture performed by the user, and associating the authentication input with a transaction authentication operation utilizing the machine learning system in a virtual environment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method comprising: receiving training input corresponding to multiple different prompted user gestures; training a machine learning system on the training input; receiving an authentication input based on an authentication gesture performed by the user; and associating the authentication input with a transaction authentication operation utilizing the machine learning system in a virtual environment.
2. The method of claim 1 and further comprising prompting a user to input specific hand gestures.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the specific hand gestures include at least one of making a circle gesture with a hand, making a square gesture with the hand, making a "Z" shaped gesture with the hand, making a line forward and backward gesture with the hand, and making a hand shake gesture with the hand.
4. The method of claim 1 and further comprising prompting a user to input specific head gestures.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein the specific head gestures include at least one of nodding the head, shaking the head, and rolling the head.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the training input includes multiple user gestures of each of the multiple different prompted user gestures.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the authentication gesture includes multiple different gestures performed in sequence.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein the multiple different gestures include at least two of a hand gesture, a head gesture, and an eye gesture.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein the authentication gesture includes an interactive gesture in a selected virtual environment.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein the transaction authentication includes receiving a selection of the selected environment from the user.
11. The method of claim 1 and further comprising: receiving the authentication input in association with a pending transaction; using the machine learning system to determine that the authentication input corresponds to the user's authentication gesture; and approving the pending transaction in response to the machine learning system determining that the authentication input corresponds to the user's authentication gesture.
12. A computing device comprising: a processor; and a memory device coupled to the processor having instructions stored thereon executable by the processor to perform operations comprising: receiving training input corresponding to multiple different prompted user gestures; training a machine learning system on the training input; receiving an authentication input based on an authentication gesture performed by the user; and associating the authentication input with a transaction authentication operation utilizing the machine learning system in a virtual environment.
13. The computing device of claim 12 and further including operations comprising: prompting a user to input specific hand gestures, wherein the specific hand gestures include at least one of making a circle gesture with a hand, making a square gesture with the hand, making a "Z" shaped gesture with the hand, making a line forward and backward gesture with the hand, and making a hand shake gesture with the hand; and prompting a user to input specific head gestures, wherein the specific head gestures include at least one of nodding the head, shaking the head, and rolling the head.
14. The computing device of claim 12 wherein the training input includes multiple user gestures of each of the multiple different prompted user gestures.
15. The computing device of claim 12 wherein the authentication gesture includes multiple different gestures performed in sequence, wherein the multiple different gestures include at least two of a hand gesture, a head gesture, and an eye gesture.
16. The computing device of claim 12 wherein the authentication gesture includes an interactive gesture in a selected virtual environment and wherein the transaction authentication includes receiving a selection of the selected environment from the user.
17. The computing device of claim 12 wherein the operations further comprise: receiving the authentication input in association with a pending transaction; using the machine learning system to determine that the authentication input corresponds to the user's authentication gesture; and approving the pending transaction in response to the machine learning system determining that the authentication input corresponds to the user's authentication gesture.
18. A machine-readable storage device having instructions that are executable by a processor to perform operations comprising: receiving training input corresponding to multiple different prompted user gestures; training a machine learning system on the training input; receiving an authentication input based on an authentication gesture performed by the user; and associating the authentication input with a transaction authentication operation utilizing the machine learning system in a virtual environment.
19. The machine-readable storage device of claim 18 wherein the operations further comprise: prompting a user to input specific hand gestures, wherein the specific hand gestures include at least one of making a circle gesture with a hand, making a square gesture with the hand, making a "Z" shaped gesture with the hand, making a line forward and backward gesture with the hand, and making a hand shake gesture with the hand; and prompting a user to input specific head gestures, wherein the specific head gestures include at least one of nodding the head, shaking the head, and rolling the head, and wherein the authentication gesture includes multiple different gestures performed in sequence, wherein the multiple different gestures include at least two of a hand gesture, a head gesture, and an eye gesture.
20. The machine-readable storage device of claim 18 wherein the operations further comprise: receiving the authentication input in association with a pending transaction; using the machine learning system to determine that the authentication input corresponds to the user's authentication gesture; and approving the pending transaction in response to the machine learning system determining that the authentication input corresponds to the user's authentication gesture.
</claims>
</document>
