<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N19/513,H04N19/52,H04N19/537
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PANASONIC INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABE, KIYOFUMI
KANOH, RYUICHI
LI, JING YA
LIAO, RU LING
LIM, CHONG SOON
NISHI TAKAHIRO
SHASHIDHAR, SUGHOSH PAVAN
SUN, HAI WEI
TEO, HAN BOON
TOMA TADAMASA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66992738
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENCODER, DECODER, ENCODING METHOD, AND DECODING METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
An encoder includes circuitry and memory. The circuitry performs: obtaining first motion vector information of a first partition; obtaining second motion vector information of a second partition; deriving a set of prediction samples for the first partition; and encoding the first partition using the set. When the difference between the motion vector information is not greater than a value, the circuitry reflects a second set of samples to a first set of samples. The first set has been predicted for the first partition using the first motion vector information, and the second set has been predicted for a first range using the second motion vector information. When the difference is greater than the value, the circuitry reflects, to the first set of samples, a third set of samples predicted for a second range larger than the first range using the second motion vector information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An encoder which encodes a video, the encoder comprising: circuitry; and memory, wherein using the memory, the circuitry performs: obtaining first motion vector information of a first partition included in the video; obtaining second motion vector information of a second partition included in the video and different from the first partition; deriving a set of prediction samples for the first partition; and encoding the first partition using the set of prediction samples, wherein, when deriving the set of prediction samples, the circuitry: evaluates whether a difference between the first motion vector information and the second motion vector information is greater than a value of a parameter; when it is evaluated that the difference is not greater than the value of the parameter, reflects a second set of samples to a first set of samples, and derives, as the set of prediction samples, the first set of samples to which the second set of samples has been reflected, the first set of samples being predicted for the first partition using the first motion vector information, the second set of samples being predicted for a first range included in the first partition using the second motion vector information; and when it is evaluated that the difference is greater than the value of the parameter, reflects a third set of samples to the first set of samples, and derives, as the set of prediction samples, the first set of samples to which the third set of samples has been reflected, the third set of samples being predicted for a second range included in the first partition and larger than the first range using the second motion vector information.
2. The encoder according to claim 1, wherein the first partition is a non-rectangular partition, and the second partition is a non-rectangular partition different from the first partition.
3. The encoder according to claim 2, wherein the first partition is a triangular partition, and the second partition is a triangular partition different from the first partition.
4. The encoder according to claim 1, wherein the first partition is a rectangular partition, and the second partition is a rectangular partition different from the first partition.
5. The encoder according to claim 1, wherein the second partition is a partition which spatially neighbors the first partition.
6. The encoder according to claim 1, wherein the first motion vector information includes information corresponding to a picture order count of a reference picture to be referred to by a motion vector of the first partition, and the second motion vector information includes information corresponding to a picture order count of a reference picture to be referred to by a motion vector of the second partition.
7. The encoder according to claim 1, wherein the first motion vector information includes information corresponding to at least one of a horizontal component and a vertical component of the motion vector of the first partition, and the second motion vector information includes information corresponding to at least one of a horizontal component and a vertical component of the motion vector of the second partition.
8. The encoder according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry encodes the value of the parameter.
9. The encoder according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry determines the value of the parameter according to at least one of a size of the first partition and a size of the second partition.
10. A decoder which decodes a video, the decoder comprising: circuitry; and memory, wherein using the memory, the circuitry performs: obtaining first motion vector information of a first partition included in the video; obtaining second motion vector information of a second partition included in the video and different from the first partition; deriving a set of prediction samples for the first partition; and decoding the first partition using the set of prediction samples, wherein, when deriving the set of prediction samples, the circuitry: evaluates whether a difference between the first motion vector information and the second motion vector information is greater than a value of a parameter; when it is evaluated that the difference is not greater than the value of the parameter, reflects a second set of samples to a first set of samples, and derives, as the set of prediction samples, the first set of samples to which the second set of samples has been reflected, the first set of samples being predicted for the first partition using the first motion vector information, the second set of samples being predicted for a first range included in the first partition using the second motion vector information; and when it is evaluated that the difference is greater than the value of the parameter, reflects a third set of samples to the first set of samples, and derives, as the set of prediction samples, the first set of samples to which the third set of samples has been reflected, the third set of samples being predicted for a second range included in the first partition and larger than the first range using the second motion vector information.
11. The decoder according to claim 10, wherein the first partition is a non-rectangular partition, and the second partition is a non-rectangular partition different from the first partition.
12. The decoder according to claim 11, wherein the first partition is a triangular partition, and the second partition is a triangular partition different from the first partition.
13. The decoder according to claim 10, wherein the first partition is a rectangular partition, and the second partition is a rectangular partition different from the first partition.
14. The decoder according to claim 10, wherein the second partition is a partition which spatially neighbors the first partition.
15. The decoder according to claim 10, wherein the first motion vector information includes information corresponding to a picture order count of a reference picture to be referred to by a motion vector of the first partition, and the second motion vector information includes information corresponding to a picture order count of a reference picture to be referred to by a motion vector of the second partition.
16. The decoder according to claim 10, wherein the first motion vector information includes information corresponding to at least one of a horizontal component and a vertical component of the motion vector of the first partition, and the second motion vector information includes information corresponding to at least one of a horizontal component and a vertical component of the motion vector of the second partition.
17. The decoder according to claim 10, wherein the circuitry decodes the value of the parameter.
18. The decoder according to claim 10, wherein the circuitry determines the value of the parameter according to at least one of a size of the first partition and a size of the second partition.
19. An encoding method for encoding a video, the encoding method comprising: obtaining first motion vector information of a first partition included in the video; obtaining second motion vector information of a second partition included in the video and different from the first partition; deriving a set of prediction samples for the first partition; and encoding the first partition using the set of prediction samples, wherein the deriving of the set of prediction samples includes: evaluating whether a difference between the first motion vector information and the second motion vector information is greater than a value of a parameter; when it is evaluated that the difference is not greater than the value of the parameter reflecting a second set of samples to a first set of samples, and deriving, as the set of prediction samples, the first set of samples to which the second set of samples has been reflected, the first set of samples being predicted for the first partition using the first motion vector information, the second set of samples being predicted for a first range included in the first partition using the second motion vector information; and when it is evaluated that the difference is greater than the value of the parameter, reflecting a third set of samples to the first set of samples, and deriving, as the set of prediction samples, the first set of samples to which the third set of samples has been reflected, the third set of samples being predicted for a second range included in the first partition and larger than the first range using the second motion vector information.
20. A decoding method for decoding a video, the decoding method comprising: obtaining first motion vector information of a first partition included in the video; obtaining second motion vector information of a second partition included in the video and different from the first partition; deriving a set of prediction samples for the first partition; and decoding the first partition using the set of prediction samples, wherein the deriving of the set of prediction samples includes: evaluating whether a difference between the first motion vector information and the second motion vector information is greater than a value of a parameter; when it is evaluated that the difference is not greater than the value of the parameter, reflecting a second set of samples to a first set of samples, and deriving, as the set of prediction samples, the first set of samples to which the second set of samples has been reflected, the first set of samples being predicted for the first partition using the first motion vector information, the second set of samples being predicted for a first range included in the first partition using the second motion vector information; and when it is evaluated that the difference is greater than the value of the parameter, reflecting a third set of samples to the first set of samples, and deriving, as the set of prediction samples, the first set of samples to which the third set of samples has been reflected, the third set of samples being predicted for a second range included in the first partition and larger than the first range using the second motion vector information.
</claims>
</document>
