<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N5/00,G10L15/02,G10L15/16,G10L15/18,G10L15/30,G10L15/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERITONE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KETTLER, DAVID
NGUYEN, PETER
SCHWAMB, KARL
STEELBERG, CHAD
ZHAO, YU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69641469
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR NEURAL NETWORK ORCHESTRATION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for training an engine prediction neural network is disclosed. One of the methods can include: extracting image features of a first ground truth image using outputs of one or more layers of an image classification neural network; classifying the first ground truth image using a plurality of candidate neural networks; determining a classification accuracy score of a classification result of the first ground truth image for each candidate neural network of the plurality of candidate neural networks; and training the engine prediction neural network to predict the best candidate engine by associating the image features of the first ground truth image with the classification accuracy score of each candidate neural network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for training an engine prediction neural network to identify a best candidate neural network for classifying an image, the method comprising: extracting image features of a first ground truth image using outputs of one or more layers of an image classification neural network; classifying the first ground truth image using a plurality of candidate neural networks; determining a classification accuracy score of a classification result of the first ground truth image for each candidate neural network of the plurality of candidate neural networks; and training the engine prediction neural network to predict the best candidate engine by associating the image features of the first ground truth image with the classification accuracy score of each candidate neural network, wherein the best candidate neural network comprises a neural network having a highest predicted confidence of accuracy score.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first ground truth image comprises a portion of an image.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the image classification neural network comprises a convolutional image classification neural network.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting image features comprises using outputs of a first and a last hidden layer of the image classification neural network.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting image features comprises using outputs of a last hidden layer of the image classification neural network.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein outputs of the one or more layers comprises weights of the one or more layers of the image classification neural network.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a second image; extracting image features of the second image using the image classification neural network; using the trained engine prediction neural network, determining a second image classification neural network having a highest predicted confidence of accuracy score among a group of neural networks based at least on the image features of the second image; and classifying the second image using the second image classification neural network.
8. A system for training an engine prediction neural network to identify a best candidate neural network for classifying an image, the system comprising: a memory; and one or more processors coupled to the memory, the one or more processor configured to: extract image features of a first ground truth image by using outputs of one or more layers of an image classification neural network; classify the first ground truth image using a plurality of candidate neural networks; determine a classification accuracy score of a classification result of the first ground truth image for each candidate neural network of the plurality of candidate neural networks; and train the engine prediction neural network to predict the best candidate engine by associating the image features of the first ground truth image with the classification accuracy score of each candidate neural network, wherein the best candidate neural network comprises a neural network having a highest predicted confidence of accuracy score.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the first ground truth image comprises a portion of an image.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the image classification neural network comprises a VGG convolutional image classification neural network.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are configured to extract image features by extracting outputs of the first and the last hidden layers of the image classification neural network.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are configured to extract image features by extracting using outputs of the last hidden layer of the image classification neural network.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein outputs of the one or more layers comprises weights of the one or more layers of the image classification neural network.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: receive a second image; extract image features of the second image using the image classification neural network; use the trained engine prediction neural network, determining a second image classification neural network having a highest predicted confidence of accuracy score among a group of neural networks based at least on the image features of the second image; and classify the second image using the second image classification neural network.
15. A method for training an engine prediction neural network to identify a best candidate neural network for classifying an image, the method comprising: extracting image features of a plurality of ground truth images using an image classification neural network, wherein the image features of each of the plurality of ground truth images comprises outputs from one or more hidden layers of the image classification neural network; classifying each of the plurality of ground truth images using a plurality of candidate neural networks; receiving classification results of each of the plurality of ground truth images from each of the plurality of candidate neural network; determining a classification accuracy score of each of the plurality of candidate neural network for each of the plurality of ground truth images; and training the engine prediction neural network to associate the image features of each of the plurality of ground truth images with the respective classification accuracy score of each candidate neural network for the each of the plurality of ground truth images.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein each of the plurality of ground truth images comprises a portion of an image.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the image classification neural network comprises a convolutional image classification neural network.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the image features of each of the plurality of ground truth images comprises outputs of a last hidden layer of the convolutional image classification neural network.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein outputs of the last hidden layer comprises weights of the last hidden layer.
20. The method of claim 15, further comprising: receiving a non-ground truth image; extracting image features of the non-ground truth image using the image classification neural network; using the trained engine prediction neural network, determining a second image classification neural network having a highest predicted confidence of accuracy score among a group of neural networks based at least on the image features of the non-ground truth image; and classifying the non-ground truth image using the second image classification neural network.
</claims>
</document>
