<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61M16/00,G16H40/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SOCIEDADE BENEFICENTE ISRAELITA BRASILEIRA HOSPITAL ALBERT EINSTEIN
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRUNETTO TANCREDI, Felipe
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62624596
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SMART CONTROL SYSTEM AND METHOD BASED ON MACHINE LEARNING FOR MODULATING END-TIDAL CONCENTRATION LEVELS BY MEANS OF ADJUSTMENTS TO THE VOLUME AND CONCENTRATION OF AN INCOMING RESPIRATORY GAS FLOW IN REAL TIME
</title>

<claims>
1. Intelligent control system, based on machine learning, to modulate end-tidal concentration levels through continuous adjustments in the volume and concentration of a flow of incoming respiratory gases (Gin) characterized by the fact that it is configured to sample and measure, in real time, a first of concentration and pressure signal (CP10) from the incoming gas flow (Gin) administered in a respiratory device (200) at a current breathing moment (T0 and a second concentration and pressure signal (CP20) of a respiration gas flow (GRESP) within the respiratory device (200) at the current respiratory moment (T0, the system being configured to estimate, in real time, and based on the first and second concentration and pressure signals (CP10, CP20) measured in the current moment of respiration (T0 and in the concentration and pressure signals (CP1n, CP2n) measured in prior respiratory moments (T-N), a new volume and a new concentration of oxygen and carbonic gas for the flow of incoming gases (Gin) for an immediate future inspiratory moment (Ti), the immediate future inspiratory moment (T1) occurring after the current respiratory moment (T0), the system being configured to adjust the volume and concentration of oxygen and carbonic gas of the flow of incoming gases (Gin) several times within the same inspiratory cycle.
2. System, according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that an intelligent algorithm estimates, in real time and through a closed loop control system, the new volume and the new concentration of oxygen and carbonic gas for the flow of incoming gases (Gin).
3. System, according to claim 2, characterized by the fact that the intelligent algorithm estimates the volume and concentration of a flow of incoming gases (Gin) to control the level of oxygen and carbonic gas of the end-tidal/alveolar/blood gases.
4. System, according to claim 2, characterized by the fact that the intelligent algorithm is based on machine learning.
5. System, according to claim 2 characterized by the fact that the intelligent algorithm uses artificial neural networks, evolutionary algorithms or reinforcement learning.
6. System, according to claim 2, characterized by the fact that the intelligent algorithm uses fuzzy logic.
7. System, according to claim 2, characterized by the fact that the performance of its control over the levels of oxygen and end-tidal carbon dioxide improves with the time of use of the system as well as the time of use of other units of the same model that are connected to it in a network.
8. System, according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that the current moment of respiration (T0) is a current inspiratory moment and the flow of respiratory gases (GRESP) is a flow of inspired gases.
9. System, according to claim 8, characterized by the fact that a plurality of immediate future inspiratory moments (T2, T3, Tn) occur after the immediate future inspiratory moment (Ti) within the same inspiratory cycle.
10. System, according to claim 9, characterized by the fact that the volume and concentrations of O2 and CO2 from the flow of incoming gases (Gin) are adjusted several times within the same inspiratory cycle.
11. System, according to claim 10, characterized by the fact that the number of estimates of new flows and their respective adjustments are proportional to the response speeds of the flow controllers (10), readings of the first and second concentration and pressure signals (CP10, CP20) and processing of the control unit (50).
12. System, according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that when the current respiratory moment occurs within an expiratory cycle, the current moment of respiration (T0) is altered to be a current moment of expiration and the flow of respiratory gases (GRESP) is changed to an expired gas flow.
13. System, according to claim 12, characterized by the fact that a plurality of immediate future expiration moments occurs after the current expiration moment within the same expiratory cycle.
14. System, according to claim 13, characterized by the fact that the volume and concentration of the flow of incoming gases (Gin) are estimated several times according to the variation of expiration within the same expiratory cycle.
15. System, according to claim 14, characterized by the fact that the number of estimates of new flows and respective adjustments is proportional to the reading responses of the first and second concentration and pressure signals (CP1, CP2) and the processing speed of the control unit (50).
16. System, according to claim 15, characterized by the fact that it is configured to estimate the volume and concentration of oxygen and carbonic gas from the flow of incoming gases (Gin) for an upcoming inspiratory cycle according to the variation of the expiration within the same expiratory cycle.
17. System, according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that it comprises a control unit (50) configured to estimate, in real time, the new volume and new concentration of oxygen and carbonic gas for the flow of incoming gases (Gin) for the immediate future inspiration moment (T1).
18. System, according to claim 17, characterized by the fact that the control unit (50) is configured to receive and store in a memory, in real time, the first and second concentration and pressure signals (CP1, CP2) and at least one physiological parameter (S1, S2, S3, Sn).
19. System, according to claim 18, characterized by the fact that the control unit (50) is configured to estimate, in real time, the new volume and new concentration of oxygen and carbonic gas for the flow of incoming gases (Gin) also based on at least one physiological parameter (S1, S2, S3, Sn).
20. System, according to claim 18, characterized by the fact that at least one physiological parameter (S1, S2, S3, Sn) is a parameter selected from a group composed of: thoracic expansion, volume of inspired and expired gases, electromyography, pulse oximetry, heart rhythm, respiratory gas humidity, ECG signal, blood pressure, arterial blood velocity, gasometry, blood pH, temperature and electrical conductance of the skin.
21. System, according to claim 20, characterized by the fact that the control unit (50) comprises anthropometric, demographic and population data.
22. System, according to claim 21, characterized by the fact that the control unit (50) is configured to estimate the new volume and new concentration of oxygen and carbonic gas for the flow of incoming gases (Gin) also based on anthropometric, demographic and population data.
23. System, according to claim 17, characterized by the fact that the control unit (50) is configured to control, individually, flows of a plurality of flow controllers (10) to adjust the volume and concentration of oxygen and carbonic gas from the flow of incoming gases (Gin).
24. System, according to claim 23, characterized by the fact that the plurality of flow controllers (10) is fed individually with a mixture of oxygen, nitrogen and carbonic gas of different concentrations.
25. System, according to claim 23, characterized by the fact that the control unit (50) individually controls the flows of each of the flow controllers (10) by sending individual signals to each controller (10) with levels of opening gradation between 0% and 100%.
26. System, according to claim 25, characterized by the fact that the plurality of flow controllers (10) presents an actuation response of a maximum of 10 milliseconds (ms) to 90% of opening.
27. System, according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that the first concentration and pressure signal (CP1) and the second concentration and pressure signal (CP2) are measured by means of fast reading sensors of concentrations of oxygen, carbonic gas and pressure (20, 80).
28. System, according to claim 27, characterized by the fact that the fast reading sensors of concentrations of oxygen, carbonic gas and pressure (20, 80) are able to achieve a 90% final reading of the oxygen concentrations in less than 130 milliseconds (ms) and of the carbonic gas concentrations in less than 50 milliseconds (ms).
29. System, according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that the use of machine learning allows adjustments in the volume and concentration of a flow of incoming gases (Gin), to reach the desired end-tidal levels, to be adapted to the type of breathing device used (200).
30. System, according to claim 1, characterized by the fact that the breathing device (200) is a breathing mask selected from a group ranging from a simple mask without gas leakage control to a more complex mask with leakage control, input and output valves, inspiration reservoirs, and respiratory circuits with inspiratory and/or expiratory reservoirs.
31. Intelligent control method, based on machine learning, to modulate end-tidal concentration levels through continuous adjustments in the volume and concentration of a flow of incoming respiratory gases (Gin) characterized by fact that it comprises the stages of: A) continuously sampling and measuring a first concentration and pressure signal (CP1) of the incoming gas flow (Gin) administered in a breathing device (200) at the current breathing moment (T0); b) continuously sampling and measuring a second concentration and pressure signal (CP20) of a flow of respiration gases (GRESP) within the breathing device (200) at the current moment of respiration (TO); c) estimating based on the signals sampled and measured in steps a) and b) and in concentration and pressure signals (CP1n, CP2n) measured at previous moments of respiration (T-N), a new volume and a new concentration of oxygen and carbonic gas for the flow of incoming gases (Gin) for an immediate future inspiratory moment (T1); and d) adjusting the volume and concentration of oxygen and carbonic gas in the flow of incoming gases (Gin) within the same inspiratory cycle.
</claims>
</document>
