<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B21/24,G06T7/12,G06T7/13,G06T7/60,G06T7/73,G06T7/80,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARL ZEISS MICROSCOPY
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMTHOR, MANUEL
HAASE, DANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73052757
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Light microscope with automatic focusing
</title>

<abstract>
In a method for automatically focusing a microscope, an overview image that shows a sample and an environment is recorded. An image processing algorithm ascertains in the overview image at least one boundary of an object that is not the sample itself. A focus setting is then ascertained at a location of at least one of the ascertained boundaries.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim
1. a method for automatically focusing a microscope, comprising ascertaining, by means of an image processing algorithm, at least one boundary of an object that is not a sample itself in an overview image showing the sample and an environment, and determining a focus setting at a location of at least one of the ascertained boundaries:
2. The method of claim 1, wherein an actuating device performs a relative movement between the sample and a detection beam path with the result that the detection beam path is directed at the location of the ascertained boundary, and subsequently the focus setting is determined.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the image processing algorithm comprises a segmentation algorithm or detection algorithm via which boundaries of objects are ascertained in the overview image, wherein the segmentation algorithm or detection algorithm is based on a machine learning algorithm.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the image processing algorithm ascertains in the overview image a plurality of locations of one or more boundaries and selects one or more of the locations of the boundaries on the basis of predetermined criteria that have been taught using a machine learning algorithm for determining the focus setting.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the location of a boundary selected is one of a plurality of boundary portions, wherein the boundary portion is selected in dependence on its alignment relative to an illumination direction in the subsequent determination of the focus setting.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a learning mode to a user, in which: reference overview images of reference samples are represented, a marking tool is provided for the user with which the user can mark one or more boundaries in each reference overview image, a machine learning algorithm of the image processing algorithm establishes, based on the reference overview images and the boundaries marked by the user, criteria with which a boundary is ascertained for determining the focus setting.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the boundary ascertained in the overview image is or comprises an edge of the object.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein a plurality of edges and at least one corner of the object are ascertained in the overview image, and the corner is used as the location of the boundary of the object where the focus setting is determined.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the object is a cover slip and the boundary is or comprises a cover slip edge or a cover slip corner, or the object is a microscope slide and the boundary is or comprises a microscope slide periphery, or in that the object is a multiwell plate and the boundary is or comprises a well periphery, or the object is a sticker, a printed area or a mark on a microscope slide and the boundary is or comprises a periphery of the sticker, of the printed area or of the mark.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the focus setting comprises at least: recording a plurality of microscope images of different height focusing at the location of the ascertained boundary; determining a respective image sharpness quality factor of the microscope images; determining that microscope image or those microscope images having the maximum image sharpness quality factor; establishing a focus setting based on the microscope image / microscope images having the maximum image sharpness quality factor.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein, as part of the determination of the focus setting, a cover slip thickness is also determined, wherein a cover slip periphery is ascertained in the overview image as a boundary of the object, wherein during the determination of the microscope images with a maximum image sharpness quality factor, two microscope images with a local maximum in the image sharpness quality factor are ascertained, wherein a cover slip thickness is ascertained from the difference between height values of the two microscope images.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising fine focusing on sample structures based on the determined focus setting, and recording at least one sample image with the fine focusing.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein as part of the determination of the focus setting, a microscope slide inclination is also ascertained, wherein at least three locations of a boundary are ascertained on which then in each case a focus setting that indicates a height position of the respective location is ascertained, wherein a microscope slide inclination is ascertained based on the at least three height positions.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising selecting the locations of the boundary that are used for ascertaining the microscope slide inclination such that the sample is located laterally between these locations of the boundary.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the number of locations of the boundary used for determining the microscope slide inclination is selected in dependence on a lateral distance between said locations.
16. The method of claim 13, further comprising using the ascertained microscope slide inclination for a focus setting in subsequent sample examinations, wherein for different lateral positions of the sample a respective focus setting is adjusted in accordance with the microscope slide inclination.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein, as part of the ascertainment of the focus setting, an orientation alignment is ascertained by ascertaining in the overview image at least one cover slip periphery and one microscope slide boundary as boundaries, ascertaining a focus setting and thus a height position in each case for the cover slip periphery and the microscope slide boundary, ascertaining, using a comparison of the height positions of the cover slip periphery and of the microscope slide boundary, whether the cover slip is located above or below the microscope slide.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the ascertained microscope slide inclination is taken into account for the ascertainment of the orientation alignment by calculating a height offset based on the microscope slide inclination for the height positions to be compared.
19. The method of claim 1, further comprising ascertaining at least one cover slip periphery and one microscope slide boundary as boundaries in the overview image, determining a focus setting and thus a height position in each case for the cover slip periphery and the microscope slide boundary, and setting a focus setting for subsequent sample examinations to a height position, wherein the height position is between the determined height positions of the cover slip periphery and the microscope slide boundary.
20. A computer program product comprising instructions that, upon execution by a computing unit of a light microscope, cause the latter to carry out the method of claim 1.
21. A light microscope with automatic focusing, comprising an electronic control and evaluation device, which comprises an image processing algorithm that is designed to ascertain at least one boundary of an object that is not a sample itself in an overview image showing the sample and an environment, and wherein the electronic control and evaluation device is configured to determine a focus setting at a location of at least one ascertained boundary.
</claims>
</document>
