<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/34,G06F11/36,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HPE (HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PANAMBUR, DEEPAK
SRIDHAR, PAVAN
Panambur, Rohith
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72917097
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR AMALGAMATION OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI) AND MACHINE LEARNING (ML) IN TEST CREATION, EXECUTION, AND PREDICTION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods provided for a software test automation platform including an artificial intelligence (AO/machine learning (ML) test analyzer. The AI/ML test analyzer can be a computer device operating with the software testing automation platform that is programmed to obtain run-time data from executing multiple software test cases for a software workload; obtain log data from the one or more test logs, relating to previous executions of the tests cases for the software workload. The AI/ML test analyzer can then analyze the log data and the run-time data by applying ML/AI tools, concurrently with executing the test cases, for recognizing patterns associated with the executed tests cases over a period of time, and automatically predicting an optimized set of test cases and analytics related to execution of the test cases for the software workload.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a software test automation platform; and an artificial intelligence (AI)/machine learning (ML) test analyzer communicatively coupled to the automated software testing platform and to one or more storage devices, the AI/ML test analyzer comprising: one or more processors; and a computer-readable storage device coupled to the one or more processors and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations of: obtaining run-time data during executing multiple test cases for a software workload; obtaining test logs from the one or more storage devices, wherein test log data from each of the test logs is related to previous executions of the tests cases for the software workload; automatically analyzing the test log data and the run-time data by applying AI/ML for recognizing patterns associated with the executed tests cases over a period of time; automatically predicting, based on the AI/ML tools analyses, an optimized set of test cases and analytics related to execution of the test cases for the software workload; and communicating the predicted optimized set of test cases and analytics to the software test automation platform.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-readable storage device further causes the one or more processors to perform: determining automated recommended actions relating to a sequence of test cases within the optimized set of test cases.
3. The system of claim 3, wherein the automated recommended actions comprise at least one of: ignoring a test case; adding a new test; and applying an updated sequence to test cases within the optimized set of test cases for the software workload.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a user interface communicatively connected to the software test automation platform.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the user interface obtains input for approving or denying the automated recommended actions.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the software test automation platform executes the multiple test cases for the software workload such that the software run-time data is generated.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the AI/ML test analyzer automatically analyzes the test log data and the run-time data concurrently as the software test automation platform executes the multiple test cases for the software workload.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the AI/ML test analyzer automatically predicts the automated recommended actions concurrently as the software test automation platform executes the multiple test cases for the software workload; and communicates the predicted optimized set of test cases and analytics to the software test automation platform prior to completing execution of the multiple test cases for the software workload.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-readable storage device further causes the one or more processors to perform: automatically predicting one or more defect yielding test cases; and automatically adding the one or more defect yielding test cases to the optimized set of test cases for the software workload.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-readable storage device further causes the one or more processors to perform: obtaining one or more defined patterns relating to logs of interest; and analyzing the test log data from the one or more storage devices based on the defined patterns to selectively collect test logs data from the logs of interest, and prior to automatically analyzing the test log data by applying AI/ML; and communicating the test log data only from the logs of interest for automatically analyzing by applying AI/ML.
11. A computer-readable storage medium having executable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to perform operations of: obtaining run-time data during an execution of multiple test cases for a software workload; obtaining test log data from multiple test logs, wherein the log data from each of the test logs is related to previous executions of the tests cases for the software workload; automatically analyzing the log data and the run-time data by applying AI/ML for recognizing patterns associated with the executed tests cases over a period of time; automatically predicting, based on the AI/ML analyses, an optimized set of test cases and analytics related to execution of the test cases for the software workload; and communicating the predicted optimized set of test cases and analytics to a software test automation platform.
12. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the processor to perform: determining automated recommended actions relating to a sequence of test cases within the optimized set of test cases.
13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the automated recommended actions comprise at least one of: ignoring a test case; adding a new test; and applying an updated sequence to test cases within the optimized set of test cases for the software workload.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the processor to perform: presenting a user interface for interacting with the software test automation platform.
15. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the user interface obtains input for approving or denying the automated recommended actions.
16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the run-time data is obtained from a software test automation platform executing the multiple test cases for the software workload.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein automatically analyzing the test log data and the run-time data occurs concurrently as the software test automation platform executes the multiple test cases for the software workload.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein automatically predicting the automated recommended actions occurs concurrently as the software test automation platform executes the multiple test cases for the software workload, and communicating the predicted optimized set of test cases and analytics to the software test automation platform occurs prior to completing execution of the multiple test cases for the software workload.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the processor to perform: automatically predicting one or more defect yielding test cases; and automatically adding the one or more defect yielding test cases to the optimized set of test cases for the software workload.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the processor to perform: obtaining one or more defined patterns relating to logs of interest; analyzing the test log data from the one or more storage devices based on the defined patterns to selectively collect test logs data from the logs of interest, and prior to automatically analyzing the test log data by applying AI/ML; and communicating the test log data only from the logs of interest for automatically analyzing by applying AI/ML.
</claims>
</document>
