<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/418,G06F16/182,G06F16/23,G06F16/27,G06F9/38,G06F9/46,G06F9/50,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N3/08,G06Q10/04,G06Q10/06,G06Q30/02,G06Q40/04,G06Q50/06,G06Q50/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRONG FORCE TX PORTFOLIO 2018
</assignee>

<inventors>
CELLA, CHARLES HOWARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68468228
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR FLEET ENERGY ACQUISITION ON A SPOT MARKET
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for allocation of renewable energy capacity for a fleet of machines are disclosed. An example transaction-enabling system may include a fleet of machines each having an energy consumption task requirement, wherein at least a subset of the fleet of machines each comprises a renewable energy capacity. The system may further include a controller including a resource requirement circuit to determine an amount of energy for each of the machines to service the energy consumption task requirement for each corresponding machine, and a resource distribution circuit to allocate a delivery of energy from an aggregated renewable energy capacity of the subset of the fleet of machines in response to the determined amount of energy for each of the machines to service the energy consumption task requirement.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A transaction-enabling system, comprising: a fleet of machines each having an energy consumption task requirement, wherein at least a subset of the fleet of machines each comprises a renewable energy capacity; and a controller, comprising: a resource requirement circuit structured to determine an amount of energy for each of the machines to service the energy consumption task requirement and to aggregate the amount of energy for the fleet of machines; a resource market circuit structured to automatically execute an aggregated transaction in a spot market for energy for at least a portion of the aggregated amount of energy; and a resource distribution circuit structured to allocate a delivery of energy from the subset of the fleet of machines in response to the determined amount of energy for each of the machines to service the energy consumption task requirement.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the resource requirement circuit is further structured to aggregate the renewable energy capacity of the subset of the fleet of machines, and to adjust the aggregated amount of energy in response to the aggregated renewable energy capacity.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the resource market circuit is further structured to adjust the at least a portion of the aggregated amount of energy based on the adjusted aggregated amount of energy.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising: wherein the resource distribution circuit is further structured to determine at least one fleet outcome value selected from the list consisting of: of a fleet output value, a fleet resource utilization value, a fleet resource performance value, or a fleet cost operation value; and wherein the controller further comprises a continuous improvement circuit structured to adaptively improve the allocation of delivery of energy from the subset of the fleet of machines in response to the fleet outcome value.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the resource distribution circuit is further structured to provide resource delivery commands to the subset of the fleet of machines to implement the improvement of the allocation in delivery of energy.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the resource distribution circuit is further structured to determine a resource transferability value between at least two machines of the fleet of machines, and to provide the resource delivery commands further in response to the resource transferability value.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the resource market circuit is further structured to execute an arbitrage strategy for the aggregated transaction.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the resource distribution circuit is further structured to execute a small transaction on the spot market for energy, followed by the aggregated transaction, where the aggregated transaction is based on an outcome of the small transaction, and wherein the aggregated transaction is larger than the small transaction.
9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a market forecasting circuit structured to predict a forward market price of energy on a forward energy market.
10. The system of claim 9, further comprising a forward resource market circuit structured to execute a second aggregated energy purchase transaction on the forward energy market, wherein the second aggregated energy purchase transaction is based in part on the determined amount of energy for each of the machines to service the energy consumption task requirement, the renewable energy capacity for each machine of the subset of the fleet of machines, and the predicted forward market price of energy.
11. The system of claim 1, further comprising a market forecasting circuit structured to predict a forward market price of energy credits on a forward energy credit market.
12. The system of claim 11, further comprising a forward market circuit structured to execute an aggregated energy credit transaction on the forward energy market in response to at least one of the determined amount of energy for each of the machines to service the energy consumption task requirement, the renewable energy capacity for each machine of the subset of the fleet of machines, or the predicted forward market price of energy credits.
13. A method, comprising: determining an amount of an energy resource for each of machine of a fleet of machines to service an energy consumption task requirement for each corresponding machine, wherein at least a subset of the fleet of machines each comprises a renewable resource capacity; automatically executing an aggregated transaction in a spot market for energy in response to the amount of the energy resource; and allocating a delivery of energy from the subset of the fleet of machines in response to the amount of the energy resource and the aggregated transaction.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising aggregating the renewable energy capacity of the subset of the fleet of machines and adjusting the aggregated amount of energy in response to the aggregated renewable energy capacity.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising adjusting the aggregated transaction in response to the aggregated renewable energy capacity.
16. The method of claim 13, further comprising: determining at least fleet outcome value selected from the list consisting of: a fleet output value, a fleet resource utilization value, a fleet resource performance value, or a fleet cost operation value; and adaptively improving the allocating the delivery of energy from the subset of the fleet of machines in response to the fleet outcome value.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising providing resource delivery commands to implement the improvement of the allocating the delivery of the energy from the subset of the fleet of machines in response to the fleet outcome value.
18. The method of claim 13, further comprising determining a resource transferability value between at least two machines of the fleet of machines.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising adjusting the aggregated transaction in response to the resource transferability value.
20. The method of claim 18, further comprising determining at least one fleet outcome value, and adaptively improving the allocating the delivery of energy from the subset of the fleet of machines in response to at least one of the fleet outcome value or the resource transferability value.
21. The method of claim 13, further comprising executing a small transaction on the spot market for energy followed by the aggregated transaction, where the aggregated transaction is based on an outcome of the small transaction.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the aggregated transaction is larger than the small transaction.
23. The method of claim 13, further comprising predicting a forward market price of energy on a forward energy market.
24. The method of claim 23, further comprising executing a second aggregated transaction on the forward energy market, wherein the second aggregated transaction is based at least in part on the determined amount of energy for each of the machines to service the energy consumption task requirement, the renewable energy capacity for each of the subset of the fleet of machines, and the forward market price of energy.
</claims>
</document>
