<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06Q20/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
YOTI HOLDING
</assignee>

<inventors>
GARCIA RODRIGUEZ, FRANCISCO ANGEL
ABBOTT, JOHN
PAL, AHMED KAZIM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68062918
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Anti-spoofing
</title>

<abstract>
Anti-spoofing technology is provided for verifying a user of a fixed computer terminal. Image data of at least one verification image is received, as captured by an image capture device of the fixed computer terminal at a time corresponding to a request for access to a restricted function of the fixed computer terminal. User verification is applied to determine whether to grant access to the restricted function of the fixed computer terminal. A differential feature descriptor is determined, which encodes feature differences between the verification image data and image data of at least one unobstructed background image as captured by the image capture device. An anti-spoofing classifier processes the differential feature descriptor to classify it in relation to real and spoofing classes. Access to the restricted function of the fixed computer terminal is refused or granted based on the classification of the differential feature descriptor by the anti-spoofing classifier.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An anti-spoofing method for verifying a user of a fixed computer terminal, the anti-spoofing method comprising implementing, in a user verification processing system, the following: receiving image data of at least one verification image as captured by an image capture device of the fixed computer terminal at a time corresponding to a request for access to a restricted function of the fixed computer terminal; and in response to the access request, applying user verification to determine whether to grant access to the restricted function of the fixed computer terminal, by: determining, by a differential feature extractor, a differential feature descriptor encoding feature differences between the verification image data and image data of at least one unobstructed background image as captured by the image capture device, processing, by an anti-spoofing classifier, the differential feature descriptor to classify it in relation to real and spoofing classes corresponding, respectively, to verification images of actual humans and verification images of spoofing entities, and granting or refusing access to the restricted function of the fixed computer terminal based on the classification of the differential feature descriptor by the anti-spoofing classifier.
2. The anti-spoofing method according to claim 1, wherein the user verification further comprises: using at least one age-verification process to determine a user age value for a user of the fixed computer terminal at a time corresponding to the access request, wherein the requested access is granted or refused based on the determined user age.
3. The anti-spoofing method according to claim 2, wherein the user age value is an estimated user age value and the age-verification process comprises an age-estimation process applied to sensor data captured from the user at the fixed computer terminal, in order to determine the estimated user age value.
4. The anti-spoofing method according to claim 3, wherein the sensor data comprises image data of the at least one verification image.
5. The anti-spoofing method according to claim 2, wherein the restricted function is a payment function, and wherein access to the payment function is granted only when the user age is determined to meet a predetermined age requirement.
6. The anti-spoofing method according to claim 1, wherein the restricted function is a payment function.
7. The anti-spoofing method according to claim 1, wherein the differential feature descriptor is determined by determining individual feature descriptors for the verification and unobstructed background image data, and comparing the individual feature descriptors.
8. The anti-spoofing method according to claim 7, wherein each of the individual feature descriptors is a histogram of gradients.
9. The anti-spoofing method according to claim 8, wherein the anti-spoofing classifier is a machine learning classifier which has been trained on example verification images corresponding to one or both of the real and spoofing classes.
10. The anti-spoofing method according to claim 9, wherein the anti-spoofing classifier is a support vector machine (SVM).
11. The anti-spoofing method according to claim 1, wherein the unobstructed background image data was determined at a time when the fixed computer terminal was determined not to be in use.
12. The anti-spoofing method according to claim 1, wherein background features in a field of view of the image capture device are determined to be unobstructed for capturing the at least one unobstructed background image by processing sensor data captured at the fixed computer terminal.
13. The anti-spoofing method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one unobstructed background image is captured at a time when background features in a field of view of the image capture device are assumed to be unobstructed.
14. Non-transitory computer-readable storage media including computer-readable instructions, which when executed on one or more processors of a user verification processing system, cause the system to carry out the following: receiving image data of at least one verification image as captured by an image capture device of a fixed computer terminal at a time corresponding to a request for access to a restricted function of the fixed computer terminal; and in response to the access request, applying user verification to determine whether to grant access to the restricted function of the fixed computer terminal, by: determining, by a differential feature extractor, a differential feature descriptor encoding feature differences between the verification image data and image data of at least one unobstructed background image as captured by the image capture device, processing, by an anti-spoofing classifier, the differential feature descriptor to classify it in relation to real and spoofing classes corresponding, respectively, to verification images of actual humans and verification images of spoofing entities, and granting or refusing access to the restricted function of the fixed computer terminal based on the classification of the differential feature descriptor by the anti-spoofing classifier.
15. A user verification processing system comprising: an image input configured to receive image data captured by an image capture device of a fixed computer terminal; and one or more processors configured to verify a user of the fixed computer terminal by at least: receiving image data of at least one verification image as captured by an image capture device of the fixed computer terminal at a time corresponding to a request for access to a restricted function of the fixed computer terminal; and in response to the access request, applying user verification to determine whether to grant access to the restricted function of the fixed computer terminal, by: determining, by a differential feature extractor, a differential feature descriptor encoding feature differences between the verification image data and image data of at least one unobstructed background image as captured by the image capture device, processing, by an anti-spoofing classifier, the differential feature descriptor to classify it in relation to real and spoofing classes corresponding, respectively, to verification images of actual humans and verification images of spoofing entities, and granting or refusing access to the restricted function of the fixed computer terminal based on the classification of the differential feature descriptor by the anti-spoofing classifier.
16. The user verification processing system according to claim 15, wherein the system is embodied in the fixed computer terminal and coupled to an image capture device of the fixed computer terminal for receiving captured image data therefrom and verifying the user of the fixed computer terminal based at least partly on the captured image data.
17. The user verification processing system according to claim 15, wherein the user verification further comprises: using at least one age-verification process to determine a user age value for a user of the fixed computer terminal at a time corresponding to the access request, wherein the requested access is granted or refused based on the determined user age.
18. The user verification processing system according to claim 17, wherein the user age value is an estimated user age value and the age-verification process comprises an age-estimation process applied to sensor data captured from the user at the fixed computer terminal, in order to determine the estimated user age value.
19. The user verification processing system according to claim 18, wherein the sensor data comprises image data of the at least one verification image.
20. The user verification processing system according to claim 15, wherein the restricted function is a payment function.
</claims>
</document>
