<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/50,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRIPE
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOEL, ASHISH
LOFGREN, PETER
DANDEKAR, PRANAV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68392037
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR USING ONE OR MORE NETWORKS TO ASSESS A METRIC ABOUT AN ENTITY
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein are systems and methods for predicting a metric value for an entity associated with a query node in a graph that represents a network. In embodiments, using a user's profile as the query node, a metric about that user may be estimated based, at least in part, as a function of how well connected the query node is to a whitelist of "good" users/nodes in the network, a blacklist of "bad" users/nodes in the network, or both. In embodiments, one or more nodes or edges may be weighted when determining a final score for the query node. In embodiments, the final score regarding the metric may be used to take one or more actions relative to the query node, including accepting it into a network, allowing or rejecting a transaction, assigning a classification to the node, using the final score to compute another estimate for a node, etc.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for predicting an overall score of a metric about an entity associated with a query node in a graph that represents entities and connections between entities, the method comprising: for each whitelist node in a set of whitelist nodes from at least a first portion of the graph, determining a whitelist score that is related at least in part on a strength of connection between the query node and the whitelist node; generating a whitelist blended value comprising a combination of the whitelist scores for the whitelist nodes in the set of whitelist nodes; for each blacklist node in a set of blacklist nodes from at least a second portion of the graph, determining a blacklist score that is related at least in part on a strength of connection between the query node and the blacklist node; generating a blacklist blended value comprising a combination of the scores for the blacklist nodes in the set of blacklist nodes; and generating an overall score blended from the whitelist blended value and the blacklist blended value for the query node.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein the first portion of the graph and the second portion of the graph are a same portion of the graph.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: obtaining overall scores for a plurality of query nodes from at least a portion of the graph; responsive to a query node from the plurality of query nodes having an overall score with a first sign, assigning it to the set of whitelist nodes; responsive to a query node from the plurality of query nodes having an overall score with a second sign, assigning it to the set of blacklist nodes; and selecting a query node and repeating the prior steps until a stop condition is reached to obtain the overall score for the query node.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: generating the graph by determining or inferring one or more interactions or connections between entities, wherein a node in the graph represents an entity and an edge in the graph connects two nodes and represents at least one interaction or connection between those two nodes.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4 wherein the graph represents a plurality of different types of networks.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5 wherein connections between nodes from one type network are weighted differently than connections from another type of network when determining a strength of connection.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 4 further comprising: assigning weights to at least one of: one or more nodes in the graph, one or more edges in the graph, or both; and using at least one of the weights in obtaining the overall score.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising determining a strength of connection by performing the steps comprises: performing a number of random walks in the graph from a start node in the graph and terminating at another node in the graph; keeping a counter of how many times a walk terminated at a node in the graph; determining an estimate of a strength of connection between the start node and another node in the graph comprising dividing the number of times walks terminated on the another node by the number of random walks; and using the estimate of a strength of connection to determine a score that measures a strength of connection between the start node and the another node in the graph.
9. A system for predicting an overall score of a metric about an entity associated with a query node in a graph that represents entities and connections between entities, the system comprising: one or more processors; and a non-transitory computer-readable medium or media comprising one or more sequences of instructions which, when executed by at least one of the one or more processors, causes steps to be performed comprising: for each whitelist node in a set of whitelist nodes from at least a first portion of the graph, determining a whitelist score that is related at least in part on a strength of connection between the query node and the whitelist node; generating a whitelist blended value comprising a combination of the whitelist scores for the whitelist nodes in the set of whitelist nodes; for each blacklist node in a set of blacklist nodes from at least a second portion of the graph, determining a blacklist score that is related at least in part on a strength of connection between the query node and the blacklist node; generating a blacklist blended value comprising a combination of the scores for the blacklist nodes in the set of blacklist nodes; and generating an overall score blended from the whitelist blended value and the blacklist blended value for the query node.
10. The system of claim 9 wherein the non-transitory computer-readable medium or media comprising one or more sequences of instructions which, when executed by at least one of the one or more processors, further causes steps to be performed comprising: obtaining overall scores for a plurality of query nodes from at least a portion of the graph; responsive to a query node from the plurality of query nodes having an overall score with a first sign, assigning it to the set of whitelist nodes; responsive to a query node from the plurality of query nodes having an overall score with a second sign, assigning it to the set of blacklist nodes; and selecting a query node and repeating the prior steps until a stop condition is reached to obtain the overall score for the query node.
11. The system of claim 9 wherein the non-transitory computer-readable medium or media comprising one or more sequences of instructions which, when executed by at least one of the one or more processors, further causes steps to be performed comprising: generating the graph by determining or inferring one or more interactions or connections between entities, wherein a node in the graph represents an entity and an edge in the graph connects two nodes and represents at least one interaction or connection between those two nodes.
12. The system of claim 11 wherein the graph represents a plurality of different types of networks.
13. The system of claim 12 wherein connections between nodes from one type network are weighted differently than connections from another type of network when determining a strength of connection.
14. The system of claim 11 wherein the non-transitory computer-readable medium or media comprising one or more sequences of instructions which, when executed by at least one of the one or more processors, further causes steps to be performed comprising: assigning weights to at least one of: one or more nodes in the graph, one or more edges in the graph, or both; and using at least one of the weights in obtaining the overall score.
15. The system of claim 14 wherein the non-transitory computer-readable medium or media comprising one or more sequences of instructions which, when executed by at least one of the one or more processors, further causes steps to be performed comprising: responsive to an edge between a query node and a blacklist node representing shared information that is deemed to represent a close connection, assigning a weight to the edge to provide a high strength of connection for the blacklist node relative to a whitelist node with a same or similar close connection.
16. The system of claim 9 wherein the non-transitory computer-readable medium or media comprising one or more sequences of instructions which, when executed by at least one of the one or more processors, further causes steps to be performed comprising: determining a strength of connection by performing steps comprising: performing a number of random walks in the graph from a start node in the graph and terminating at another node in the graph; keeping a counter of how many times a walk terminated at a node in the graph; determining an estimate of a strength of connection between the start node and another node in the graph comprising dividing the number of times walks terminated on the another node by the number of random walks; and using the estimate of a strength of connection to determine a score that measures a strength of connection between the start node and the another node in the graph.
17. A computer-implemented method for determining whether to grant rights to an entity associated with a query node in a graph, the method comprising: given the graph that has been generated by determining or inferring one or more interactions or connections between entities, wherein a node in the graph represents an entity and an edge in the graph connects two nodes and represents at least one interaction or connection between those two nodes, for each node in a set of nodes from at least a portion of the graph, determining a score that is related at least in part on a strength of connection between the query node and the node; combining the scores between the query node and the nodes from the set of nodes to obtain an overall score; and responsive to the overall score being above a threshold value, granting rights to an entity associated with the query node.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 17 further comprising the step of: responsive to the overall score being not being above a threshold value, not granting rights to an entity associated with the query node.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 17 wherein the set of nodes comprises a set of whitelist nodes and a set of blacklist nodes and the method further comprises the step of: for each whitelist node in the set of whitelist nodes, determining a whitelist score that is related at least in part on a strength of connection between the query node and the whitelist node; generating a whitelist blended value comprising a combination of the whitelist scores for the whitelist nodes in the set of whitelist nodes; for each blacklist node in the set of blacklist nodes, determining a blacklist score that is related at least in part on a strength of connection between the query node and the blacklist node; generating a blacklist blended value comprising a combination of the scores for the blacklist nodes in the set of blacklist nodes; and generating the overall score blended from the whitelist blended value and the blacklist blended value for the query node.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 19 further comprising: obtaining overall scores for a plurality of query nodes from at least a portion of the graph; responsive to a query node from the plurality of query nodes having an overall score with a first sign, assigning it to the set of whitelist nodes; responsive to a query node from the plurality of query nodes having an overall score with a second sign, assigning it to the set of blacklist nodes; and selecting a query node and repeating the prior steps until a stop condition is reached to obtain the overall score for the query node.
</claims>
</document>
