<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HITACHI
</assignee>

<inventors>
TAKEUCHI, WATARU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71836567
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER SYSTEM AND PRESENTATION METHOD OF INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
A computer system is accessible to a database storing learning data to generate a prediction model, the learning data includes input data and teacher data, the computer system: performs first learning to set an extraction criterion for extracting the learning data including the input data similar to prediction target data in a case of being input the prediction target data; extract the learning data from the first database based on the extraction criterion and generate a dataset; perform second learning to generate a prediction model using the dataset; generate a decision logic showing a prediction logic of the prediction model; and output information to present the decision logic.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising at least one computer, the computer system being accessible to a first database storing a plurality of pieces of learning data to generate a prediction model for predicting an event in a subject, each of the plurality of pieces of learning data including input data and teacher data, the input data including a plurality of feature values that are values of items representing characteristics of the subject, and the at least one computer being configured to: perform first learning to set an extraction criterion for extracting learning data including the input data similar to prediction target data which includes the plurality of feature values in a case of being input the prediction target data; extract at least one of a piece of learning data from the first database based on the extraction criterion and generate a dataset including the extracted at least one of the piece of learning data as an element; perform second learning to generate a prediction model using the dataset; generate a decision logic showing a prediction logic of the prediction model based on the prediction model; and output first information to present the decision logic.
2. The computer system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one computer is configured to calculate a prediction result by processing the prediction target data by using the prediction model, and wherein the first information includes the prediction result.
3. The computer system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one computer is configured to store a new piece of learning data including the prediction target data as the input data and a prediction result as the teacher data to the first database.
4. The computer system according to claim 1, wherein the decision logic is information representing one of a decision tree, a Bayesian network, a linear model, and a neural network.
5. The computer system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one computer is configured to output second information to present at least either one of information on a result of the first learning and information on the dataset.
6. The computer system according to claim 1, wherein the computer system is accessible to a second database storing a plurality of decision logics, and wherein the at least one computer is configured to: analyze the plurality of decision logics stored in the second database to identify a plurality of decision logics to be integrated; integrate the identified plurality of decision logics to be integrated to generate an integrated decision logic; and output third information to present the integrated decision logic.
7. The computer system according to claim 6, wherein the at least one computer is configured to analyze the integrated decision logic to identify, from the prediction target data, at least one item that significantly influences prediction as an influence item, and wherein the third information includes information on the influence item.
8. The computer system according to claim 1, wherein the input data and the prediction target data are each data including a plurality of feature values required to generate a prediction model for predicting an interventional action.
9. A presentation method of information to be performed by a computer system, the computer system including at least one computer and being accessible to a first database storing a plurality of pieces of learning data to generate a prediction model for predicting an event in a subject, each of the plurality of pieces of learning data including input data and teacher data, the input data including a plurality of feature values that are values of items representing characteristics of the subject, and the presentation method of information including: a step of performing, by the at least one computer, first learning to set an extraction criterion for extracting learning data including the input data similar to prediction target data which includes the plurality of feature values in a case of being input the prediction target data; a step of extracting, by the at least one computer, at least one on a piece of learning data from the first database based on the extraction criterion and generating a dataset including the extracted at least one of the piece of learning data; a step of performing, by the at least one computer, second learning to generate a prediction model using the dataset; a step of generating, by the at least one computer, a decision logic showing a prediction logic of the prediction model based on the prediction model; and a step of outputting, by the at least one computer, first information to present the decision logic.
10. The presentation method of information according to claim 9, further including a step of calculating, by the at least one computer, a prediction result by processing the prediction target data by using the prediction model, wherein the first information includes the prediction result.
11. The presentation method of information according to claim 9, further including a step of storing, by the at least one computer, a new piece of learning data including the prediction target data as the input data and a prediction result as the teacher data to the first database.
12. The presentation method of information according to claim 9, wherein the decision logic is information representing one of a decision tree, a Bayesian network, a linear model, and a neural network.
13. The presentation method of information according to claim 9, further including a step of outputting, by the at least one computer, second information to present at least either one of information on a result of the first learning and information on the dataset.
14. The presentation method of information according to claim 9, wherein the computer system is accessible to a second database storing a plurality of decision logics, and wherein the presentation method of information further includes: a step of analyzing, by the at least one computer, the plurality of decision logics stored in the second database to identify a plurality of decision logics to be integrated; a step of integrating, by the at least one computer, the identified plurality of decision logics to be integrated to generate an integrated decision logic; a step of analyzing, by the at least one computer, the integrated decision logic to identify, from the prediction target data, at least one item that significantly influences prediction as an influence item; and a step of outputting, by the at least one computer, third information to present the integrated decision logic and information on the influence item.
15. The presentation method of information according to claim 9, wherein the input data and the prediction target data are each data including a plurality of feature values required to generate a prediction model for predicting an interventional action.
</claims>
</document>
