<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A24B15/12,A24B15/16,A24B15/30,A24F47/00,G09B19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PANDOLFINO, JOSEPH
</assignee>

<inventors>
PANDOLFINO, JOSEPH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69178584
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND PRODUCTS TO FACILITATE SMOKERS SWITCHING TO A TOBACCO HEATING PRODUCT OR E-CIGARETTES
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to tobacco products, including methodology, devices and compositions, for assisting a smoker to transition from conventional tobacco cigarettes to either e-cigarettes or a tobacco heating device. Provided herein are methodology for switching, along with kits, products and apparatuses. The disclosure also provides methodology for regulating tetrahydrocannabinolic acid synthase expression, for use in producing cigarettes, reconstituted cannabis, and other products having reduced Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinolic acid.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of transitioning a smoker of conventional cigarettes to a tobacco heating device, the method comprising: providing the smoker a transition kit including a supply of very low nicotine cigarettes, a tobacco heating device, and information and recommendations for using said cigarettes and tobacco heating device during a transitional period, wherein the supply of very low nicotine cigarettes equals at least 20 percent of the number of conventional cigarettes the smoker smokes per day multiplied by the number of days in the transitional period, wherein the very low nicotine cigarettes contain equal to or less than 2.0 mg of nicotine per cigarette, wherein the transitional period is less than 85 days, and wherein the information and recommendations include the following: instructions for the smoker to stop smoking conventional cigarettes at a first time point, commencing the transitional period, and after the first time point to smoke the very low nicotine cigarettes from the supply of very low nicotine cigarettes without restriction during the transitional period; recommendations or instructions that upon the smoker experiencing a craving for a conventional cigarette, to use the tobacco heating device without restriction at a second time point; recommendations or instructions that after the second time point until the end of the transitional period, the smoker may also smoke the very low nicotine cigarettes without restriction; and recommendations or instructions for the smoker to stop smoking the very low nicotine cigarettes at the end of the transitional period and to continue to use the tobacco heating device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the tobacco heating device comprises a supply of tobacco sticks, wherein the supply of tobacco sticks approximately equals the number of conventional cigarettes the smoker smokes per day multiplied by the number of days in the transitional period, and wherein each tobacco stick contains at least 2.0 mg of nicotine per tobacco stick.
3. (canceled)
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the tobacco heating device comprises tobacco heating rods, wherein the supply of tobacco heating rods approximately equals the number of conventional cigarettes the smoker smokes per day multiplied by the number of days in the transitional period, and wherein each tobacco heating rod contains at least 2.0 mg of nicotine.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the information and recommendations are provided to the smoker by way of a smartphone, smartwatch or cellular telephone.
6. 6-45. (canceled)
46. A method of transitioning a smoker of conventional cigarettes to an aerosol device, the method comprising: providing the smoker a transition kit including a supply of very low nicotine cigarettes, an aerosol device, and information and recommendations for using said cigarettes and aerosol device during a transitional period, wherein the supply of very low nicotine cigarettes equals at least 20 percent of the number of conventional cigarettes the smoker smokes per day multiplied by the number of days in the transitional period, wherein the very low nicotine cigarettes contain equal to or less than 2.0 mg of nicotine per cigarette and at least 5 mg of very-low-THC cannabis, said very-low-THC cannabis contains a collective amount of Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinolic acid (THCA) and Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) equal to or less than 1.25 mg/g, wherein the transitional period is less than 85 days, and wherein the information and recommendations include the following: instructions for the smoker to stop smoking conventional cigarettes at a first time point, commencing the transitional period, and after the first time point to smoke the very low nicotine cigarettes from the supply of very low nicotine cigarettes without restriction during the transitional period; recommendations or instructions that upon the smoker experiencing a craving for a conventional cigarette, to use the aerosol device without restriction at a second time point; recommendations or instructions that after the second time point until the end of the transitional period, the smoker may also smoke the very low nicotine cigarettes without restriction; and recommendations or instructions for the smoker to stop smoking the very low nicotine cigarettes at the end of the transitional period and to continue to smoke the aerosol device.
47. The method of claim 46, wherein the aerosol device comprises a tobacco heating device and a supply of tobacco sticks, wherein the supply of tobacco sticks approximately equals the number of conventional cigarettes the smoker smokes per day multiplied by the number of days in the transitional period, and wherein each tobacco stick among the supply of tobacco sticks contains at least 2.0 mg of nicotine per tobacco stick.
48. The method of claim 46, wherein the aerosol device comprises e-cigarettes, wherein the e-cigarettes include a rechargeable device and a supply of e-liquid cartridges, wherein the supply of e-liquid cartridges approximately equals a product of the number of conventional cigarettes the smoker smokes per day and the number of days in the transitional period, divided by 20, and wherein each e-liquid cartridge among the supply of e-liquid cartridges contains at least 0.10 ml of nicotine by volume.
49. The method of claim 46, wherein the aerosol device comprises tobacco heating rods, wherein the supply of tobacco heating rods approximately equals the number of conventional cigarettes the smoker smokes per day multiplied by the number of days in the transitional period, and wherein each tobacco heating rod contains at least 2.0 mg of nicotine.
50. The method of claim 46, wherein the information and recommendations are provided to the smoker by way of a smartphone, smartwatch or cellular telephone.
51. A method of administering a protocol for transitioning a smoker of conventional cigarettes to an aerosol device, the method comprising: administering at a first time point commencing a transitional period during which the smoker is transitioned from conventional cigarettes to the aerosol device, very low nicotine cigarettes without restriction from among a supply of very low nicotine cigarettes, wherein the supply of very low nicotine cigarettes equals at least 20 percent of a number of conventional cigarettes the smoker smokes per day multiplied by a number of days in the transitional period, wherein the very low nicotine cigarettes in the supply of very low nicotine cigarettes contain equal to or less than 2.0 mg of nicotine per cigarette, and wherein the transitional period is less than 85 days; upon the smoker experiencing a desire for a conventional cigarette at a second time point during the transitional period, administering the aerosol device without restriction; administering the very low nicotine cigarettes without restriction at a third time point during the transitional period; and upon the smoker experiencing the desire for a conventional cigarette at fourth second time point during the transitional period, administering the aerosol device without restriction until an end of the transitional period.
52. The method of claim 51, wherein the aerosol device comprises a tobacco heating device and a supply of tobacco sticks, wherein the supply of tobacco sticks approximately equals the number of conventional cigarettes the smoker smokes per day multiplied by the number of days in the transitional period, and wherein each tobacco stick contains at least 2.0 mg of nicotine per tobacco stick.
53. The method of claim 51, wherein the aerosol device comprises e-cigarettes, wherein the e-cigarettes include a rechargeable device and a supply of e-liquid cartridges, wherein the supply of e-liquid cartridges approximately equals the product of the number of conventional cigarettes the smoker smokes per day and the number of days in the transitional period, divided by 20, and wherein each e-liquid cartridge contains at least 0.10 ml of nicotine by volume.
54. The method of claim 51, wherein the aerosol device comprises tobacco heating rods, wherein the supply of tobacco heating rods approximately equals the number of conventional cigarettes the smoker smokes per day multiplied by the number of days in the transitional period, and wherein each tobacco heating rod contains at least 2.0 mg of nicotine.
55. The method of claim 51, further comprising: upon the end of the transitional period, ceasing the administering of the very low nicotine cigarettes.
56. The method of claim 51, further comprising: administering the aerosol device without restriction after the end of the transitional period.
57. A method of transitioning a smoker of conventional cigarettes to e-cigarettes, the method comprising: providing the smoker a transition kit including a supply of very low nicotine cigarettes and e-cigarettes, and information and recommendations for using said cigarettes and tobacco e-cigarettes during a transitional period, wherein the supply of very low nicotine cigarettes equals at least 20 percent of the number of conventional cigarettes the smoker smokes per day multiplied by the number of days in the transitional period, wherein the very low nicotine cigarettes contain equal to or less than 2.0 mg of nicotine per cigarette, wherein the e-cigarettes include a rechargeable device and a supply of e-liquid cartridges, wherein the supply of e-liquid cartridges approximately equals the product of the number of conventional cigarettes the smoker smokes per day and the number of days in the transitional period, divided by 20, wherein each e-liquid cartridge contains at least 0.10 ml of nicotine by volume, wherein the transitional period is less than 85 days, and wherein the information and recommendations include the following: instructions for the smoker to stop smoking conventional cigarettes at a first time point, commencing the transitional period, and after the first time point to smoke the very low nicotine cigarettes from the supply of very low nicotine cigarettes without restriction during the transitional period; recommendations or instructions that upon the smoker experiencing a craving for a conventional cigarette, to use e-cigarettes without restriction at a second time point; recommendations or instructions that after the second time point until the end of the transitional period, the smoker may also smoke the very low nicotine cigarettes without restriction; and recommendations or instructions for the smoker to stop smoking the very low nicotine cigarettes at the end of the transitional period and to continue to use e-cigarettes.
58. The method of claim 57, wherein the information and recommendations are provided to the smoker by way of a smartphone, smartwatch or cellular telephone.
</claims>
</document>
