<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-12-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G07C9/21,G07C9/22,G07C9/32,G08B21/18,H02J7/00,H04L29/06,H04W12/06,H04W4/02,H04W4/021,H04W4/80,H04W8/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHARGEITSPOT
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAY, ROBERT
BALDASARE, DOUGLAS
TATE, SHERI
Weinberg, Michael
Williams, Charles
Wickman, Mikayla
Sound, Saran Singh
Bergeland, Jeffrey
Andreasen, David
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74044187
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING INTERCONNECTED AND SECURE MOBILE DEVICE CHARGING STATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A system for verifying the identity of a user is disclosed. The system has a door that selectively opens to allow access to a cavity and selectively closes to block access to the cavity, a lock configured to selectively lock and unlock the door when the door is closed, a camera configured to image a user area adjacent to the door, computing memory having associated therewith code, and a processor communicatively coupled with the computing memory. The processor communicatively coupled with the computing memory is configured to execute the code and to control the camera to record a first image data of the user area that includes a plurality of first image sets recorded at a plurality of first times, store the first image data, and control the camera to record a second image data of the user area that includes a second image set recorded at a second time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for verifying the identity of a user, comprising: a door that selectively opens to allow access to a cavity and selectively closes to block access to the cavity; a lock configured to selectively lock and unlock the door when the door is closed; a camera configured to image a user area adjacent to the door; computing memory having associated therewith code; and a processor communicatively coupled with the computing memory, configured to execute the code and to: control the camera to record a first image data of the user area that includes a plurality of first image sets recorded at a plurality of first times; store the first image data; control the camera to record a second image data of the user area that includes a second image set recorded at a second time; and selectively unlock the door based on comparing the second image data to the first image data; wherein comparing the second image data to the first image data includes: transmitting the first and second image data to a remotely-located device; selectively displaying some of the plurality of first images sets on the remotely-located device; and continuously displaying the second image set on the remotely-located device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the camera records the second image data of the user area that includes the second image set at the second time when the user in the user area inputs correct input data or incorrect input data.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein continuously displaying the second image set on the remotely-located device includes continuously displaying the second image set depicting the user in the user area inputting incorrect input data on the remotely-located device, the second image set being displayed adjacent to a movable carousel of the plurality of first images sets displayed on the remotely-located device.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the movable carousel is a variable display of the plurality of first image sets that an operator of the remotely-located device manipulates to display a desired image of the plurality of first image sets.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein: comparing the second image data to the first image data includes receiving an operator data from the remotely-located device; and transmitting the first and second image data to the remotely-located device occurs after the user in the user area inputs incorrect input data.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the incorrect input data is an incorrect security image selection or an incorrect PIN code.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the operator data is selected from the group consisting of a security question and a security instruction instructing a user in the user area to remove a hat or change position in the user area.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the door is maintained in a locked state when the first image data defines a first set of images of the user in the user area at the first time and the second image data defines a second set of images not including a verified match of the user in the user area at the second time.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein comparing the second image data to the first image data includes using facial recognition software.
10. A method, comprising: providing a door that selectively opens to allow access to a cavity and selectively closes to block access to the cavity; using a lock to selectively lock and unlock the door when the door is closed; using a camera to image a user area adjacent to the door; providing computing memory having associated therewith code and a processor communicatively coupled with the computing memory to execute the code; controlling the camera to record a first image data of the user area that includes a plurality of first image sets recorded at a plurality of first times; storing the first image data; locking the door; controlling the camera to record a second image data of the user area that includes a second image set recorded at a second time; transmitting the first and second image data to a remotely-located device; selectively displaying some of the plurality of first images sets on the remotely-located device; continuously displaying the second image set on the remotely-located device; and selectively unlocking the door based on comparing the second image data to the first image data using the remotely-located device.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising recording the second image data of the user area that includes the second image set at the second time using the camera based on a user in the user area inputting incorrect input data.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: continuously displaying the second image set depicting the user in the user area inputting incorrect input data on the remotely-located device; and displaying a movable carousel of the plurality of first images sets on the remotely-located device adjacent to the second image set displayed on the remotely-located device.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising manipulating the display of the movable carousel to display a desired image of the plurality of first image sets.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein: comparing the second image data to the first image data includes receiving an operator data from the remotely-located device; and transmitting the first and second image data to the remotely-located device occurs after a user in the user area inputs an incorrect security image selection data or an incorrect PIN code data.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the operator data is selected from the group consisting of a security question and a security instruction instructing a user in the user area to remove a hat or change position in the user area.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein selectively unlocking the door includes unlocking the door when the first image data defines a first set of images of a user in the user area at the first time and the second image data defines a second set of images of the user in the user area at the second time.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein the processor maintains the door in a locked state when the first image data defines a first set of images of a user in the user area at the first time and the second image data defines a second set of images not including a verified match of the user in the user area at the second time.
18. A system for verifying the identity of a user, comprising: a door that selectively opens to allow access to a cavity and selectively closes to block access to the cavity; a lock configured to selectively lock and unlock the door when the door is closed; a camera configured to image a user area adjacent to the door; computing memory having associated therewith code; and a processor communicatively coupled with the computing memory, configured to execute the code and to: control the camera to record a first image data of the user area that includes a plurality of first image sets recorded at a plurality of first times; store the first image data; control the camera to record a second image data of the user area that includes a second image set recorded at a second time; and selectively unlock the door based on comparing the second image data to the first image data; wherein comparing the second image data to the first image data includes transmitting the first and second image data to a remotely-located device and subsequently receiving an operator data from the remotely-located device; wherein transmitting the first and second image data to the remotely-located device occurs after the user in the user area inputs incorrect input data; and wherein comparing the second image data to the first image data includes continuously displaying the second image set on the remotely-located device.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein continuously displaying the second image set on the remotely-located device includes continuously displaying the second image set depicting the user in the user area inputting incorrect input data on the remotely-located device, the second image set being displayed adjacent to a movable carousel of the plurality of first images sets displayed on the remotely-located device.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the movable carousel is a variable display of the plurality of first image sets that an operator of the remotely-located device manipulates to display a desired image of the plurality of first image sets.
</claims>
</document>
