<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N7/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WHISTIC
</assignee>

<inventors>
SORENSEN, NICHOLAS
DOTSON, JEFFREY
RODRIGUEZ, JUAN C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69772208
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROACTIVELY RESPONDING TO VENDOR SECURITY ASSESSMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems to establish a security profile may include a memory to store original text from security questionnaires, and values associated with the original text from the questionnaires, the values indicating a section, a control, or a question of the original text. The system may also include a processing unit. The processing unit can identify a set of latent topics present in the original text from the stored security questionnaires, score the original text based on presence or absence of latent topics, receive a new security questionnaire, score the new text from the new security questionnaire based on presence or absence of latent topics, compute a distance between the scored original text from the stored security questionnaires and the scored new text from the new security questionnaire, and link the original text to the new text with a smallest distance between.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system to establish a security profile, the system comprising: a memory to store: original text from a corpus of security questionnaires, and values associated with the original text from the corpus of security questionnaires, the values indicating a section, a control, or a question of the original text; and a processing unit to: identify a set of latent topics present in the original text from the corpus of security questionnaires, score portions of the original text based on one or more of presence and absence of one or more latent topics of the set of latent topics present in the original text, wherein the portions are identified based on the values associated with the original text, receive a new security questionnaire comprising new text, score portions of the new text from the new security questionnaire based on presence or absence of the latent topics, determine score differences between the scored portions of the original text from the corpus of security questionnaires and the scored portions of the new text from the new security questionnaire, and link portions of the original text from the corpus of security questionnaires to portions of the new text from the new security questionnaire with a smallest score difference.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory is further used to store answer objects associated with portions of the original text, and wherein the processing unit is further to link an answer object associated with a portion of the original text to a portion of the new text linked to the portion of the original text, such that the answer object is common to both the portion of the original text and the portion of the new text.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is further to request that portions of the original text and portions of the new text that are linked be displayed for review.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the processing unit is further to receive an input indicating acceptance or rejection of linking of the portions of the original text and the portions of the new text.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is further to populate an unanswered answer object associated with the new security questionnaire based on the portions of the original text that are linked to the portions of the new text.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is further to identify the set of latent topics by processing the original text using a generative statistical model.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is further to determine a standardized questionnaire within the corpus of security questionnaires that correlates to the new security questionnaire.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the processing unit is further to cause the standardized questionnaire to be transmitted as a response to the new security questionnaire.
9. A method of responding to a security questionnaire, the method comprising: identifying a set of latent topics present in a corpus of security questionnaires; determining a distribution of latent topics throughout questions, controls, and sections within the corpus of security questionnaires, wherein the distribution scores the questions, controls, and sections based on a presence or absence of each latent topic within the set of latent topics; scoring a new text based on the presence or absence of each latent topic within the set of latent topics; comparing a score of the new text to the distribution of latent topics throughout the questions, controls, and sections within the corpus of security questionnaires; identifying a question, control, or section that is scored within the distribution that is nearest the score of the new text; and associating the new text and the identified question, control, or section.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising populating an unanswered question field associated with the new text with an answer variable associated with the identified question, control, or section.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising displaying the new text and the identified question, control, or section for review.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising receiving an input indicating acceptance or rejection of an association between the new text and the identified question, control, or section.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein a generative statistical model is used to identify the set of latent topics.
14. The method of claim 9, further comprising determining a standardized questionnaire within the corpus of security questionnaires that correlates to the new text.
15. A system for responding to security questionnaires, the system comprising: a memory to store a corpus of security questionnaires; and a processor to: identify a set of latent topics present in the corpus of security questionnaires; determine a distribution of latent topics throughout questions, controls, and sections within the corpus of security questionnaires, wherein the distribution scores the questions, controls, and sections based on a presence or absence of each topic within the set of latent topics; score a new text based on the presence or absence of each topic within the set of latent topics; compare a score of the new text to the distribution of latent topics throughout the questions, controls, and sections within the corpus of security questionnaires; identify a question, control, or section that is scored within the distribution that is nearest the score of the new text; and populate an unanswered question field associated with the new text with an answer variable associated with the identified question, control, or section.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the processor is further to request that the new text and the identified question, control, or section for review be displayed for review.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the processor is further to receive an input indicating acceptance or rejection of an association between the new text and the identified question, control, or section.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein a generative statistical model is used to identify the set of latent topics.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the processor is further to determine a standardized questionnaire within the corpus of security questionnaires that correlates to the new text.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the processor is further to cause the standardized questionnaire to be transmitted as a response to the new text.
</claims>
</document>
