<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B61L27/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FAIVELEY TRANSPORT ITALIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
TIONE, ROBERTO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73457532
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VEHICLE CONTROL SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicle control system is provided for controlling adhesion of wheels to a route surface. The control system includes one or more processors configured to determine adhesion values representative of adhesion between the wheels of a vehicle and the route surface based on angular speeds of the wheels. The one or more processors are configured to generate a target slip value for the wheels that are coupled with at least two different axles of the vehicle by processing the adhesion values and modifying the target slip value continuously in time to maximize an average value of the adhesion values of the wheels. The one or more processors also are configured to control a torque applied to at least one of the axles based on the target slip value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicle control system comprising: one or more processors configured to determine adhesion values representative of adhesion between wheels of a vehicle and a route surface based on angular speeds of the wheels, the one or more processors configured to generate a target slip value for the wheels that are coupled with at least two different axles of the vehicle by processing the adhesion values and modifying the target slip value continuously in time to maximize an average value of the adhesion values of the wheels, the one or more processors configured to control a torque applied to at least one of the axles based on the target slip value.
2. The vehicle control system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to control and change the torque applied to the at least one of the axles to reduce a derivative of an average value of the adhesion values with respect to the target slip value.
3. The vehicle control system of claim 2, wherein the one or more processors are configured to determine an integral of the derivative of the average value of the adhesion values with respect to the target slip value, the one or more processors configured to determine or change the target slip value based on the integral that is determined.
4. The vehicle control system of claim 1, wherein the at least two different axles include a leading axle and a trailing axle along a direction of movement of the vehicle, the one or more processors are configured to increase the target slip value associated with the leading axle to clean the route surface with at least one of the wheels coupled with the leading axle prior to travel of at least another one of the wheels that is coupled with the trailing axle.
5. The vehicle control system of claim 4, wherein the one or more processors are configured to increase the adhesion value for the at least another one of the wheels by increasing the target slip value associated with the leading axle.
6. The vehicle control system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors also are configured to repeatedly change the torque applied to the at least one of the axles based on the target slip value that changes.
7. The vehicle control system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to determine an average value of the adhesion between the wheels and the route surface using the adhesion values.
8. A method comprising: determining adhesion values representative of adhesion between wheels of a vehicle and a route surface based on angular speeds of the wheels; determining a target slip value for the wheels that are coupled with at least two different axles of the vehicle, the target slip value determined based on the adhesion values that is determined; controlling a torque applied to at least one of the axles based on the target slip value; and continuously changing the target slip value as the vehicle moves based on changes in the adhesion values to maximize an average value of the adhesion values.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the torque applied to the at least one of the axles is controlled to reduce a derivative of an average value of the adhesion value with respect to the target slip value.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining an integral of the derivative of the average value of the adhesion value with respect to the target slip value, wherein the target slip value is changed based on the integral that is determined.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the at least two different axles include a leading axle and a trailing axle along a direction of movement of the vehicle, and changing the target slip value includes increasing the target slip value associated with the leading axle to clean the route surface with at least one of the wheels coupled with the leading axle prior to travel of at least another one of the wheels that is coupled with the trailing axle.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: increasing the adhesion value for the at least another one of the wheels by increasing the target slip value associated with the leading axle.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein controlling the torque includes repeatedly changing the torque applied to the at least one of the axles based on the target slip value that changes.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the adhesion value is determined as an average value of the adhesion between the wheels and the route surface as the adhesion value.
15. A system comprising: one or more processors configured to determine adhesion values representative of adhesion between wheels of a vehicle and a route surface based on angular speeds of the wheels, the one or more processors configured to determine a target slip value for the wheels that are coupled with at least two different axles of the vehicle, the one or more processors configured to determine the target slip value based on the adhesion values that is determined, the one or more processors configured to control a torque applied to at least one of the axles based on the target slip value and to continuously change the target slip value as the vehicle moves based on changes in the adhesion values to maximize an average value of the adhesion values, wherein the wheels include a leading wheel and a trailing wheel along a direction of movement of the vehicle, the one or more processors are configured to increase the target slip value associated with the leading wheel to clean the route surface with the leading wheel prior to travel of the trailing wheel.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors are configured to control and change the torque applied to the at least one of the axles to reduce a derivative of the average value of the adhesion values with respect to the target slip value.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the one or more processors are configured to determine an integral of the derivative of the average value of the adhesion values with respect to the target slip value, the one or more processors configured to determine or change the target slip value based on the integral that is determined.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors are configured to increase the adhesion value for the trailing by increasing the target slip value associated with the leading wheel.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors also are configured to repeatedly change the torque applied to the at least one of the axles based on the target slip value that changes.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the vehicle is a railway vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
