<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N15/14,G01N21/17,G01N33/533,G06K9/00,G06T5/30,G06T7/12,G06T7/155
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERILY LIFE SCIENCES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SANTORI, CHARLES
BEHROOZ, ALI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69143692
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTOMATED CELL SEGMENTATION AND LABELING IN IMMUNOFLUORESCENCE MICROSCOPY
</title>

<abstract>
Various techniques are provided for performing automated full-cell segmentation and labeling in immunofluorescent microscopy. These techniques perform membrane segmentation and nuclear seed detection separate and independently from each other, then combine their results to identify cell boundaries. Some embodiments use texture- and kernel-based image processing to perform the method. In some embodiments, the method for obtaining membrane features disclosed herein can be used in conjunction with or separate from the nuclear features. The results can be used for a variety of purposes, including whole-area cell segmentation in fluorescence-based tissue imaging.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: staining a plurality of cells with a membrane stain to generate a membrane-stained sample; generating a first fluorescence image of at least a portion of the membrane-stained sample; converting the first fluorescence image into binary, thereby generating a binary image; detecting cell boundaries of the plurality of cells in the binary image, thereby generating a membrane-segmented label image; staining the plurality of cells with a nuclear stain to generate a nuclear-stained sample; generating a second fluorescence image of at least a portion of the nuclear-stained sample; performing nuclear seed detection on the second fluorescence image by locating nuclei of the plurality of cells using the nuclear stain; segmenting the plurality of cells in at least one of the first fluorescence image or the second fluorescence image based on the membrane-segmented label image and the nuclear seed detection; labeling the plurality of cells in at least one of the first fluorescence image or the second fluorescence image to generate a labeled fluorescence image; and displaying the labeled fluorescence image.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the membrane stain exhibits a different color than the nuclear stain.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of cells are comprised in a tissue sample.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the cell boundaries further comprises performing hysteresis thresholding and skeletonization.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the cell boundaries further comprises performing connected component labeling.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein performing nuclear seed detection further comprises computing a Laplacian of the nuclear stain in the second fluorescence image, wherein peaks of the Laplacian indicate nuclear seeds.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein performing nuclear seed detection further comprises detecting nuclear seeds by applying a trained machine-learning technique.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein labeling the plurality of cells further comprises performing masked watershed segmentation.
9. A computer-program product tangibly embodied in a non-transitory machine-readable storage medium, including instructions configured to cause one or more data processors to perform actions including: accessing a first fluorescence image of at a least a portion of membrane-stained sample, wherein the membrane-stained sample includes a biological sample that comprises a plurality of cells and that is stained with a membrane stain; converting the first fluorescence image into binary, thereby generating a binary image; detecting cell boundaries of the plurality of cells in the binary image, thereby generating a membrane-segmented label image; accessing a second fluorescence image of at a least a portion of nuclear-stained sample, wherein the nuclear-stained sample includes a biological sample that comprises a plurality of cells and that is stained with a nuclear stain; performing nuclear seed detection on the second fluorescence image by locating nuclei of the plurality of cells using the nuclear stain; segmenting the plurality of cells in at least one of the first fluorescence image or the second fluorescence image based on the membrane-segmented label image and the nuclear seed detection; labeling the plurality of cells in at least one of the first fluorescence image or the second fluorescence image to generate a labeled fluorescence image; and displaying the labeled fluorescence image.
10. The computer-program product of claim 9, wherein the membrane stain exhibits a different color than the nuclear stain.
11. The computer-program product of claim 9, wherein the plurality of cells are comprised in a tissue sample.
12. The computer-program product of claim 9, wherein detecting the cell boundaries further comprises performing hysteresis thresholding and skeletonization.
13. The computer-program product of claim 9, wherein detecting the cell boundaries further comprises performing connected component labeling.
14. The computer-program product of claim 9, wherein performing nuclear seed detection further comprises computing a Laplacian of the nuclear stain in the second fluorescence image, wherein peaks of the Laplacian indicate nuclear seeds.
15. The computer-program product of claim 9, wherein performing nuclear seed detection further comprises detecting nuclear seeds by applying a trained machine-learning technique.
16. The computer-program product of claim 9, wherein labeling the plurality of cells further comprises performing masked watershed segmentation.
17. A system comprising: one or more data processors; and a non-transitory computer readable storage medium containing instructions which, when executed on the one or more data processors, cause the one or more data processors to perform actions including: accessing a first fluorescence image of at a least a portion of membrane-stained sample, wherein the membrane-stained sample includes a biological sample that comprises a plurality of cells and that is stained with a membrane stain; converting the first fluorescence image into binary, thereby generating a binary image; detecting cell boundaries of the plurality of cells in the binary image, thereby generating a membrane-segmented label image; accessing a second fluorescence image of at a least a portion of nuclear-stained sample, wherein the nuclear-stained sample includes a biological sample that comprises a plurality of cells and that is stained with a nuclear stain; performing nuclear seed detection on the second fluorescence image by locating nuclei of the plurality of cells using the nuclear stain; segmenting the plurality of cells in at least one of the first fluorescence image or the second fluorescence image based on the membrane-segmented label image and the nuclear seed detection; labeling the plurality of cells in at least one of the first fluorescence image or the second fluorescence image to generate a labeled fluorescence image; and displaying the labeled fluorescence image.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the membrane stain exhibits a different color than the nuclear stain.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the plurality of cells are comprised in a tissue sample.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein detecting the cell boundaries further comprises performing connected component labeling.
21. The system of claim 17, wherein performing nuclear seed detection further comprises computing a Laplacian of the nuclear stain in the second fluorescence image, wherein peaks of the Laplacian indicate nuclear seeds.
</claims>
</document>
