<document>

<filing_date>
2017-05-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N7/00,H04L12/24,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KESAVAN, VIJAY SARATHI
AGERSTAM, MATS GUSTAV
TRAN, THUYEN C
SODANI, SHILPA A
HUDSON, DOUGLAS K
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58745391
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CREATING A COMPUTING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is an environment including a device (105) for creating a computing system. The device (105) includes circuitry (120), a first network interface (110), and a second network interface (115). The device (105) may be a gateway. The processing circuitry (120) is arranged to receive a system definition pertaining to a first network. The first network may include OCF clients (140), such as a home automation control panel (140B) or a remote monitor (140A). The OCF clients (140) may communicate to the device (105) using OCF conventions. The system definition includes function identifiers and pertains to the first network. The system definition parameterizes the functions via the function identifiers of the system. Preferably, the first network operates in accordance with the OCF (Open Connectivity Foundation) family of standards. The system definition may be an OCF collection. Here, the function identifiers include the resources linked or batched by the OCF collection. The device (105) may operate as an OCF server. The processing circuitry (120) is also arranged to obtain an organizational element based on the system definition. Here, the organizational element pertains to the second network that uses the organizational element to self-organize. In an example, the second network operates in accordance with a IEEE 802.15.4e family of standards. For example, the system definition may be used as a key for the processing circuitry to lookup an RPL (Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks) instance. The RPL instance may include an objective function which accepts environmental parameters of a node and provides a ranking of other nodes to attach as parents in a Destination-Oriented Directed Acyclic Graph (DODAG). The processing circuitry (120) is arranged to propagate the organizational element to the second network to modify the topology of the second network to create a system of nodes (130) in the second network in accordance with the system definition. The processing circuitry (120) is arranged to receive a request from the first network for the system and fulfill the request by interacting with the nodes (130). Thus, the system may be queried by the OCF clients (140) via the OCF device (105).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-25. (canceled)
26. A device for creating a computing system, the device comprising processing circuitry to: receive a system definition, the system definition including function identifiers and pertaining to a first network; obtain an organizational element based on the system definition, the organizational element pertaining to a second network that is a self-organizing network; propagate the organizational element to the second network to modify the topology of the second network to create a system of nodes in the second network in accordance with the system definition; receive a request from the first network for the system; and fulfill the request by interacting with the nodes.
27. The device of claim 26, wherein the second network uses a self-organizing facility that uses IPv6 Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks (RPL).
28. The device of claim 27, wherein, to obtain the organizational element based on the system definition, the processing circuitry obtains a RPL instance that corresponds to the system definition.
29. The device of claim 28, wherein, to obtain the organizational element based on the system definition, the processing circuitry creates the RPL instance.
30. The device of claim 28, wherein the RPL includes an objective function, the objective function accepting environmental parameters of a node and providing a ranking of other nodes to attach as parents in a Destination-Oriented Directed Acyclic Graph (DODAG).
31. The device of claim 27, wherein, to propagate the organizational element to the second network, the processing circuitry communicates a DODAG Information Object (DIO) to the second network.
32. The device of claim 31, wherein the DIO includes a DIO option field that includes a group parameter, the group parameter used by an objective function in a node to ascertain other nodes with a same group.
33. The device of claim 26, wherein the first network operates in accordance with an Open Connectivity Foundation (OCF) family of standards.
34. A method for creating a computing system, the method comprising: receiving a system definition, the system definition including function identifiers and pertaining to a first network; obtaining an organizational element based on the system definition, the organizational element pertaining to a second network that is a self-organizing network; propagating the organizational element to the second network to modify the topology of the second network to create a system of nodes in the second network in accordance with the system definition; receiving a request from the first network for the system; and fulfilling the request by interacting with the nodes.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein the second network uses a self-organizing facility that uses IPv6 Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks (RPL).
36. The method of claim 35, wherein obtaining the organizational element based on the system definition includes obtaining a RPL instance that corresponds to the system definition.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein obtaining the RPL instance includes creating the RPL instance.
38. The method of claim 36, wherein the RPL includes an objective function, the objective function accepting environmental parameters of a node and providing a ranking of other nodes to attach as parents in a Destination-Oriented Directed Acyclic Graph (DODAG).
39. The method of claim 35, wherein propagating the organizational element to the second network includes communicating a DODAG Information Object (DIO) to the second network.
40. The method of claim 39, wherein the DIO includes a DIO option field that includes a group parameter, the group parameter used by an objective function in a node to ascertain other nodes with a same group.
41. The method of claim 34, wherein the first network operates in accordance with an Open Connectivity Foundation (OCF) family of standards.
42. At least one machine readable medium including instructions for creating a computing system, the instructions, when executed by processing circuitry, cause the processing circuitry to perform operations comprising: receiving a system definition, the system definition including function identifiers and pertaining to a first network; obtaining an organizational element based on the system definition, the organizational element pertaining to a second network that is a self-organizing network; propagating the organizational element to the second network to modify the topology of the second network to create a system of nodes in the second network in accordance with the system definition; receiving a request from the first network for the system; and fulfilling the request by interacting with the nodes.
43. The at least one machine readable medium of claim 42, wherein the second network uses a self-organizing facility that uses IPv6 Routing Protocol for Low-Power and Lossy Networks (RPL).
44. The at least one machine readable medium of claim 43, wherein obtaining the organizational element based on the system definition includes obtaining a RPL instance that corresponds to the system definition.
45. The at least one machine readable medium of claim 44, wherein obtaining the RPL instance includes creating the RPL instance.
46. The at least one machine readable medium of claim 44, wherein the RPL includes an objective function, the objective function accepting environmental parameters of a node and providing a ranking of other nodes to attach as parents in a Destination-Oriented Directed Acyclic Graph (DODAG).
47. The at least one machine readable medium of claim 43, wherein propagating the organizational element to the second network includes communicating a DODAG Information Object (DIO) to the second network.
48. The at least one machine readable medium of claim 47, wherein the DIO includes a DIO option field that includes a group parameter, the group parameter used by an objective function in a node to ascertain other nodes with a same group.
49. The at least one machine readable medium of claim 42, wherein the first network operates in accordance with an Open Connectivity Foundation (OCF) family of standards.
</claims>
</document>
