<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01L21/02,H01L21/443,H01L27/105,H01L27/12,H01L29/24,H01L29/66,H01L29/786
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SEMICONDUCTOR ENERGY LABORATORY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
YAMAZAKI, SHUNPEI
IIDA, YUTA
HODO, RYOTA
SUGAYA, Kentaro
ENDO, Toshiya
KOMATSU, Ryu
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67066711
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE AND METHOD FOR MANUFACTURING SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A semiconductor device with high on-state current is provided. The semiconductor device including a first oxide; a first conductor and a second conductor that are positioned over the first oxide; a third conductor positioned to cover the first conductor; a fourth conductor positioned to cover the second conductor; a first insulator having an opening overlapping with a region between the third conductor and the fourth conductor; a fifth conductor positioned in the opening; a second insulator positioned between the fifth conductor, and the first oxide and the first insulator; a second oxide positioned between the second insulator, and the first oxide and the first insulator; and a third insulator that is positioned between the second oxide, and the third conductor and the fourth conductor, and the first insulator and does not overlap with the first oxide in the region sandwiched between the third conductor and the fourth conductor, where the third conductor and the fourth conductor each have a region overlapping with the fifth conductor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A semiconductor device comprising: a first oxide; a first conductor and a second conductor that are positioned to be separated from each other over the first oxide; a third conductor that is positioned to be in contact with a top surface and a side surface of the first conductor and a top surface of the first oxide; a fourth conductor that is positioned to be in contact with a top surface and a side surface of the second conductor and the top surface of the first oxide; a first insulator that is positioned over the third conductor and the fourth conductor and has an opening overlapping with a region between the third conductor and the fourth conductor; a fifth conductor positioned in the opening; a second oxide that is positioned between the fifth conductor and the first oxide, between the fifth conductor and the third conductor, between the fifth conductor and the fourth conductor, and between the fifth conductor and the first insulator; a second insulator positioned between the second oxide and the fifth conductor; and a third insulator that is positioned between the second oxide and the third conductor, between the second oxide and the fourth conductor, and between the second oxide and the first insulator and does not overlap with the first oxide in the region sandwiched between the third conductor and the fourth conductor, wherein the third conductor and the fourth conductor each comprises a region overlapping with the fifth conductor.
2. The semiconductor device according to claim 1, further comprising: a fourth insulator that is positioned between the first insulator and the first oxide, between the first insulator and the first conductor, between the first insulator and the second conductor, between the first insulator and the third conductor, between the first insulator and the fourth conductor and between the first insulator and the third insulator, wherein the fourth insulator has lower oxygen-transmitting properties than the first insulator.
3. The semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein the fifth conductor is positioned to face a side surface of the first oxide, and wherein the second oxide and the second insulator are positioned between the fifth conductor and the side surface of the first oxide.
4. The semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein the third conductor has a smaller thickness than the first conductor, and wherein the fourth conductor has a smaller thickness than the second conductor.
5. The semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein in the first oxide, a region that does not overlap with the third conductor or the fourth conductor has a smaller thickness than a region that overlaps with the third conductor or the fourth conductor.
6. The semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein the first oxide comprises In, an element M(M is Al, Ga, Y, or Sn), and Zn.
7. The semiconductor device according to claim 6, wherein the second oxide comprises an element M(M is Al, Ga, Y, or Sn) and Zn.
8. The semiconductor device according to claim 6, wherein the second oxide comprises In, an element M(M is Al, Ga, Y, or Sn), and Zn, and wherein an atomic ratio of In to the element Min the second oxide is lower than an atomic ratio of In to the element Min the first oxide.
9. The semiconductor device according to claim 6, wherein the second oxide comprises a first layer and a second layer over the first layer, wherein the first layer has substantially the same composition as the second oxide, and wherein the second layer comprises a region with lower In concentration than the second oxide.
10. A method for manufacturing a semiconductor device, comprising: forming a first insulating film, a second insulating film, a first oxide film, a second oxide film, and a first conductive film in this order over a substrate; removing a part of the first conductive film to form a first conductor; forming a second conductive film over the second oxide film and the first conductor; processing the first oxide film, the second oxide film, the first conductor, and the second conductive film into an island shape to form a first oxide, a second oxide over the first oxide, a second conductor and a third conductor over the second oxide, and a fourth conductor over the second oxide, the second conductor, and the third conductor; forming a dummy gate layer that is positioned between the second conductor and the third conductor and is over the fourth conductor; forming a third insulating film to cover the first oxide, the second oxide, the second conductor, the third conductor, the fourth conductor, and the dummy gate layer; forming a fourth insulating film over the third insulating film; removing a part of the third insulating film and a part of the fourth insulating film until an upper part of the dummy gate layer is exposed; removing the dummy gate layer to form an opening; forming a fifth insulating film over the third insulating film, the fourth insulating film, and the fourth conductor; forming a dummy film over the fifth insulating film; removing a part of the fifth insulating film and a part of the dummy film by anisotropic etching using an etching gas containing fluorine and carbon, thereby forming a first insulator in contact with a top surface of the fourth conductor and a side surface of the third insulating film, forming a dummy layer over the first insulator, and depositing a by-product over the dummy layer; removing a part of the fourth conductor using the first insulator, the dummy layer, and the by-product as a mask to form a fifth conductor and a sixth conductor; removing the dummy layer and the by-product by wet etching; forming a third oxide film, a sixth insulating film, and a third conductive film in this order to be embedded in the opening; and removing a part of the third oxide film, a part of the sixth insulating film, and a part of the third conductive film until an upper part of the third insulating film is exposed.
11. The method for manufacturing a semiconductor device according to claim 10, wherein the fifth insulating film is an oxide that is deposited by an ALD method and contains hafnium.
12. The method for manufacturing a semiconductor device according to claim 10, wherein the dummy film is an oxide that is deposited by an ALD method and contains aluminum.
13. The method for manufacturing a semiconductor device according to claim 12, wherein the by-product contains aluminum, fluorine, and carbon.
14. The method for manufacturing a semiconductor device according to claim 10, wherein an upper part of the region in the second oxide sandwiched between the fifth conductor and the sixth conductor is removed by the wet etching.
15. The method for manufacturing a semiconductor device according to claim 10, wherein the first insulating film, the second insulating film, the first oxide film, the second oxide film, and the first conductive film are formed without exposure to air with use of a multi-chamber deposition apparatus.
</claims>
</document>
