<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/84,H04N5/225
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ESSENLIX CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOU STEPHEN Y.
DING WEI
DONG, WEI
QI, JI
TIAN JUN
ZHANG, YUFAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69946281
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OPTICS, DEVICE, AND SYSTEM FOR ASSAYING
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention provides, among other thing, devices and methods for simple, fast, and sensitive assaying, including imaging.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An optical adaptor for imaging an sample using a hand-held imaging device that has a light source, a single camera, and a computer processor, comprising: an enclosure; a cavity within the enclosure; and a lever within the cavity, wherein the lever comprises at least one optical element and is configured to be moveable between a first position and a second position, wherein (i) in the first position, said imaging device is capable of imaging a sample in a bright field mode, and (ii) in the second position, said imaging device is capable of imaging the sample in a fluorescence excitation mode.
2. An optical adaptor for imaging an sample using a hand-held imaging device that has a light source, a single camera, and a computer processor, comprising: an enclosure; a lens arranged to provide a field of view for the camera; a cavity within the enclosure for receiving the sample and positioning the sample within the field of view of the camera, wherein the lens is positioned to receive light refracted by or emitted by the sample when in the field of view of the camera; and a lever within the cavity, wherein the lever comprises at least one optical element and is configured to be moveable between a first position and a second position, wherein (i) in the first position, said imaging device is capable of imaging a sample in a bright field mode, and (ii) in the second position, said imaging device is capable of imaging the sample in a fluorescence excitation mode.
3. An optical adaptor for imaging an sample using a hand-held imaging device that has a light source, a single camera, and a computer processor, comprising: an enclosure; a cavity within the enclosure for receiving the sample and positioning the sample within a field of view of the camera; and a lever within the cavity, wherein the lever comprises at least one optical element and is configured to be moveable between a first position and a second position, wherein (i) in the first position, said imaging device is capable of imaging a sample in a bright field mode, and (ii) in the second position, said imaging device is capable of imaging the sample in a fluorescence excitation mode, and wherein the lever comprises a first planar region extending along a first plane and a second planar region laterally displaced along a first direction from the first planar region and extending along a second plane, the first plane being disposed at a different height along a second direction from the second plane, the second direction being orthogonal to the first direction.
4. An optical adaptor for imaging an sample using a hand-held imaging device that has a light source, a single camera, and a computer processor, comprising: an enclosure; a cavity within the enclosure for receiving the sample and positioning the sample within a field of view of the camera; and a lever within the cavity, wherein the lever comprises at least one optical element and is configured to be moveable between a first position and a second position, wherein (i) in the first position, said imaging device is capable of imaging a sample in a bright field mode, and (ii) in the second position, said imaging device is capable of imaging the sample in a fluorescence excitation mode, and wherein the lever comprises a first planar region extending along a first plane and a second planar region laterally displaced along a first direction from the first planar region and extending along a second plane, the first plane being disposed at a different height along a second direction from the second plane, the second direction being orthogonal to the first direction, and wherein the first planar region comprises at least one optical element, and the second planar region comprises at least one optical element.
5. An optical adaptor for imaging an sample using a hand-held imaging device that has a light source, a single camera, and a computer processor, comprising: an enclosure; a cavity within the enclosure; and a lever within the cavity, wherein the lever comprises at least one optical element and is configured to be moveable between at least three different positions, wherein (i) in a first position, said imaging device is capable of imaging a sample in a bright field mode, (ii) in a second position, said imaging device is capable of imaging the sample in a fluorescence excitation mode, and (iii) in a third position, said imaging device is capable of measuring optical absorption of the sample.
6. An optical adaptor for imaging an sample using a hand-held imaging device that has a light source, a single camera, and a computer processor, comprising: an enclosure; a lens configured to provide a field of view for the camera; a cavity within the enclosure for receiving the sample and positioning the sample within the field of view of the camera; an aperture within the enclosure, wherein the aperture is arranged to receive source light from the light source for illuminating the sample; and a lever within the cavity, wherein the lever comprises at least one optical element and is configured to be moveable between a first position and a second position, wherein (i) in a first position, said imaging device is capable of imaging a sample in a bright field mode, (ii) in a second position, said imaging device is capable of imaging the sample in a fluorescence excitation mode, wherein in the fluorescence excitation mode, the lens is arranged to receive light emitted by the sample when the sample is illuminated by the source light.
7. An optical adaptor for imaging an sample using a smart phone that has a light source, a single camera, and a computer processor, comprising: an enclosure; a lens configured to provide a field of view for the camera; a cavity within the enclosure for receiving the sample and positioning the sample within the field of view of the camera; and a lever within the cavity, wherein the lever comprises at least one optical element and is configured to be moveable between a first position and a second position, wherein (i) in a first position, said imaging device is capable of imaging a sample in a bright field mode, and (ii) in a second position, said imaging device is capable of imaging the sample in a fluorescence excitation mode.
8. An optical assembly attachable to a hand-held electronic device having a light source, a camera, and a computer processor, wherein the optical assembly is configured to enable microscopic imaging of a sample by the camera with illumination of the sample by light from the light source, the optical assembly comprising: an enclosure; a cavity within the enclosure; a lens configured to provide a microscopic field of view for the camera; and a moveable arm within the cavity, wherein the moveable arm is configurable to switch between a first position and a second position, wherein when the moveable arm is in the first position, the optical assembly is in a bright field mode, and when the moveable arm is in the second position, the optical assembly is in a fluorescence excitation mode.
9. The optical assembly of claim 1, wherein the enclosure comprises: a sample receptacle region within the cavity; and a slot on a side of the enclosure, wherein the slot is arranged to receive a sample substrate within the sample receptacle region and position the sample within the field of view of the camera.
10. The optical assembly of claim 8, further comprising a first set of one or more optical elements arranged to receive light entering from a first aperture in the enclosure corresponding to the light source and to redirect the light entering from the first aperture along a first pathway toward a second aperture in the enclosure corresponding to the camera to provide bright field illumination of the sample when the moveable arm is in the first position.
11. The optical assembly of claim 10, wherein the first set of one or more optical elements comprises a first right angle mirror and a second right angle mirror, wherein the first right angle mirror and the second right angle mirror are in the first pathway and are arranged to reflect the light from the light source to be normally incident into the camera,
12. The optical assembly of claim 1, wherein the light source is a point source to achieve interference imaging of transparent samples via illuminating the sample by a same wavefront.
13. The optical assembly of claim 10, further comprising a second set of one or more optical elements mechanically coupled to the movable arm and arranged to receive light entering from the first aperture and redirect the light entering from the first aperture along a second pathway to obliquely illuminate the sample to provide fluorescence illumination of the sample when the moveable arm is in the second position.
14. The optical assembly of claim 13, wherein an oblique angle formed by the oblique illumination is larger than a collecting angle of the lens that is configured to provide the field of view of the camera.
15. The optical assembly of claim 13, wherein the second set of one or more optical elements includes a mirror and an optical absorber, wherein the mirror reflects light to obliquely illuminate the sample and the optical absorber absorbs extraneous light from the first aperture that would otherwise pass through the second aperture of the enclosure and overwhelm the camera in the fluorescence excitation mode.
16. The optical assembly of claim 15, wherein the absorber absorbs light that is not incident on the mirror after going through the first aperture, wherein the light absorber is a thin-film light absorber.
17. The optical assembly of claim 13, further comprising a third set of one or more optical elements arranged to receive light entering from the first aperture and redirect the light entering into the second aperture in the movable arm and going along the first pathway toward a light diffuser on the movable arm to illuminate the sample in normal direction to measure the optical absorption of the sample.
18. The optical assembly of claim 17, wherein the third set of one or more optical elements includes a light diffuser, a first right angle mirror and a second right angle mirror, wherein the first right angle mirror and the second right angle mirror are in the first pathway and are arranged to reflect the light from the light source toward the light diffuser and then to be normally incident into the camera;
19. The optical assembly of claim 18, wherein the light diffuser is a semi-opaque diffuser with opacity in the range of 10% to 90%.
20. The optical assembly of claim 9, further comprising a rubber door to cover the sample receptacle region to prevent ambient light from entering into the cavity.
21. The optical assembly of claim 1, wherein the light source and the camera are positioned on the same side of the hand-held electronic device at a fixed distance to one another.
22. A system comprising: the optical assembly of claim 8, and a mobile phone attachment comprising a first side configured to couple to the optical assembly and a second opposite side configured to couple to the hand-held electronic device, wherein the hand-held electronic device is a mobile phone.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the mobile phone attachment is exchangeable to provide attachment to different sized mobile phones.
24. The system of claim 22, wherein a size of the mobile phone attachment is adjustable.
25. An optical assembly for a hand-held mobile electronic device, the optical assembly comprising: an enclosure; a cavity within the enclosure; a plurality of optical elements within the cavity, wherein the plurality of optical elements are arranged to receive light entering from a first aperture in the enclosure and to redirect the light entering from the first aperture along a first pathway toward a second aperture in the enclosure; a moveable arm configurable in at least two different positions within the enclosure, a moveable arm configurable in at least three different positions within the enclosure, wherein the moveable arm comprises a light reflector portion to reflect light, wherein the moveable arm comprises a light diffuser to homogenize the light and break the coherence of the light, wherein the moveable arm comprises an aperture aligned with the entrance aperture in the enclosure, wherein, when the moveable arm is in a first position within the enclosure, the light reflector portion is positioned between an entrance aperture in the enclosure and the plurality of optical elements such that the light reflector portion blocks the light entering from the first opening from being incident on the plurality of optical elements, and wherein, when the moveable arm is in a second position within the enclosure, the light entering from the first opening is incident on the plurality of optical elements, and wherein when the moveable arm is in a third position within the enclosure, the light entering from the first opening goes through an aperture on the moveable arm and then is incident on the light diffuser;
26. The optical assembly of claim 25, comprising a slot on a side of the enclosure, wherein the slot is arranged to receive a sample substrate such that: when the sample substrate is fully inserted within the slot and the moveable arm is in the second position within the enclosure, the first pathway intersects the sample substrate; and when the sample substrate is fully inserted within the slot and moveable arm is in the first position within the enclosure, light reflected by the light reflector portion is redirected to the sample substrate; and when the sample substrate is fully inserted within the slot and moveable arm is the third position within the enclosure, light goes along the first pathway toward a light diffuser and then illuminate on the sample substrate.
27. The optical assembly of claim 25, wherein the moveable arm comprises a light absorber portion to absorb light that is not incident on a mirror after going through the first aperture.
28. The optical assembly of claim 25, wherein the moveable arm comprises: a first receptacle positioned above the light reflector portion; and an optical filter seated in the first receptacle; and a second receptacle positioned above the aperture.
29. The optical assembly of claim 28, wherein, when the moveable arm is in the first position, the optical filter seated in the first receptacle is positioned to receive light entering from the first aperture in the enclosure; and when the moveable arm is in the third position, the optical filter seated in the first receptacle is positioned to receive light entering from the first aperture in the enclosure.
30. The optical assembly of claim 28, wherein, when the moveable arm is in the first position, the optical filter seated in the first receptacle overlaps a region in which a portion of the sample substrate is located when the sample substrate is fully inserted within the slot.
31. A system comprising: the optical assembly of claim 25; and a mobile phone attachment comprising a first side configured to couple to the optical assembly and comprising a second opposite side configured to couple to a mobile phone, wherein a size of the mobile phone attachment is adjustable.
32. (canceled)
33. (canceled)
34. (canceled)
35. (canceled)
36. (canceled)
37. (canceled)
38. (canceled)
39. (canceled)
40. (canceled)
41. (canceled)
42. (canceled)
43. An optical assembly attachable to a hand-held electronic device having a light source, a camera, and a computer processor, wherein the optical assembly is configured to enable microscopic fluorescence imaging of a sample by the camera with illumination of the sample by light from the light source, the optical assembly comprising: a lens configured to provide a microscopic field of view for the camera; a receptacle for receiving the sample and positioning the sample within the microscopic field of view; a mirror off-set from an optical axis of the lens and positioned to reflect light from the light source and illuminate the sample over a range of oblique angles with respect to the optical axis; and a wavelength filter positioned between the sample and the camera to pass fluorescence emitted by the sample in response to the oblique illumination.
44. The optical assembly of claim 43 wherein the lens is positioned on a front-side of the sample and the mirror is positioned to obliquely illuminate the sample from a back-side of the sample, wherein a oblique angle formed by the oblique illumination is larger than a collecting angle of the lens.
45. The optical assembly of claim 43 further comprising an optical absorber positioned on the optical axis adjacent the mirror to absorb light from the light source not reflected by the mirror.
46. The optical assembly of claim 43 wherein the mirror and the optical absorber are mounted on a common structure and tilted with respect to one another.
47. The optical assembly of claim 43, further comprising a second wavelength filter positioned in a path of illumination light between the light source and the mirror to select certain wavelengths for illuminating the sample.
48. The optical assembly of claim 43, wherein the sample is supported by a sample holder comprising a planar structure, and wherein the receptacle is configured to position the planar structure to extend partially into a path of illumination light from the light source to couple the illumination light into the planar structure.
49. The optical assembly of claim 48, wherein the receptacle is configured to position the planar structure such that the path of illumination light is incident on an edge of the planar structure, wherein the edge extends along a plane that is normal to a plane comprising the field of view.
50. The optical assembly of claim 48, wherein the mirror is arranged to reflect the light to partially obliquely illuminate the sample from a back side of the planar structure and to partially illuminate an edge of the planar structure to couple illumination light into the planar structure.
51. The optical assembly of claim 43 further comprising a rubber door to cover the receptacle to prevent ambient light from entering the optical assembly and entering the camera.
52. The optical assembly of claim 48, wherein the planar structure is configured to waveguide the coupled illumination light to the sample to illuminate the sample and cause the sample to emit fluorescence.
53. The optical assembly of claim 48, further comprising the sample holder.
54. The optical assembly of claim 53, wherein the sample is a liquid sample and the sample holder comprises first and second plates for sandwiching the liquid sample.
55. The optical assembly of claim 43, wherein the lens, the receptacle, the mirror, and the wavelength filter are supported in a common optical box and further comprising an exchangeable holder frame for attaching the optical box to the hand-held electronic device.
56. The optical assembly of claim 43, wherein the light source and the camera are positioned on the same side of the hand-held electronic device and at fixed distance to one another.
57. The optical assembly of claim 43, wherein the hand-held electronic device is a smart phone.
58. An apparatus comprising: the optical assembly of claim 43; and the hand-held electronic device.
59. (canceled)
60. (canceled)
61. (canceled)
62. (canceled)
63. (canceled)
64. (canceled)
65. (canceled)
66. (canceled)
67. (canceled)
68. (canceled)
69. An optical assembly attachable to a hand-held electronic device having a light source, a first camera module, a second camera module, and a computer processor, wherein the optical assembly is configured to enable microscopic imaging of a sample by the first camera and by the second camera with illumination of the sample by light from the light source, the optical assembly comprising: a first assembly lens configured to provide a first microscopic field of view for the first camera module; a second assembly lens configured to provide a second microscopic field of view for the second camera module; and a receptacle for receiving the sample and positioning the sample within the first microscopic field of view and within the second microscopic field of view.
70. The optical assembly of claim 69, wherein the first camera module comprises a first internal lens and the second camera module comprises a second internal lens, wherein a first optical magnification provided by the first assembly lens and the first internal lens is the same as a second optical magnification provided by the second assembly lens and the second internal lens.
71. The optical assembly of claim 70, wherein a first ratio of a focal length of the first assembly lens to a focal length of the first internal lens is equal to a second ratio of a focal length of the second assembly lens to a focal length of the second internal lens.
72. The optical assembly of claim 69, wherein a first image resolution provided by the first camera module and the first assembly lens is the same as a second image resolution provided by the second camera module and the second assembly lens.
73. The optical assembly of claim 69, wherein the first camera module comprises a first internal lens and the second camera module comprises a second internal lens, wherein a first optical magnification provided by the first assembly lens and the first internal lens is different from a second optical magnification provided by the second assembly lens and the second internal lens.
74. The optical assembly of claim 73, wherein a first ratio of a focal length of the first assembly lens to a focal length of the first internal lens is less than a second ratio of a focal length of the second assembly lens to a focal length of the second internal lens.
75. The optical assembly of claim 69, wherein a first image resolution provided by the first camera module and the first assembly lens is less than a second image resolution provided by the second camera module and the second assembly lens.
76. The optical assembly of claim 69, wherein the first microscopic field of view overlaps with the second microscopic field of view.
77. The optical assembly of claim 76, wherein an amount of overlap of the first microscopic field of view with the second microscopic field of view is between 1% and 90%.
78. The optical assembly of claim 69, wherein the first microscopic field of view does not overlap with the second microscopic field of view.
79. The optical assembly of claim 69, wherein each of the first assembly lens and the second assembly lens is arranged to receive light scattered by or emitted by the sample.
80. The optical assembly of claim 69, wherein the first microscopic field of view is less than the second microscopic field of view.
81. The optical assembly of claim 69, wherein an angular field of view of the first assembly lens is less than an angular field of view of the second assembly lens.
82. The optical assembly of claim 81, wherein a ratio of the angular field of view of the first assembly lens to the angular field of the second assembly lens is between 1.1 and 1000.
83. The optical assembly of claim 69, comprising: a first optical filter arranged in a first illumination path to or from the first assembly lens; and a second optical filter arranged in a second illumination path to or from the second assembly lens.
84. The optical assembly of claim 83, wherein: the first optical filter is configured to filter a first range of wavelengths the second optical filter is configured to filter a second range of wavelengths; and the first range of wavelengths is different from the second range of wavelengths.
85. The optical assembly of claim 69, comprising: a first polarizer arranged in a first illumination path to or from the first assembly lens; and a second polarizer arranged in a second illumination path to or from the second assembly lens.
86. The optical assembly of claim 85, wherein the first polarizer and the second polarizer have different polarization dependent light transmission and blocking properties.
87. An apparatus comprising: the optical assembly of claim 69; and the hand-held electronic device.
88. The apparatus of claim 69, wherein the hand-held electronic device is a smart phone.
89. The apparatus of claim 69, wherein the hand-held electronic device is configured to computationally merge a first image obtained from the first camera module with a second image obtained from the second camera module.
90. An imaging method comprising: compressing a sample between two plates, wherein the two plates are separated from one another by an array of spacers, at least one of which has a reference mark; acquiring multiple images of the sample using an imaging system comprising a camera and at least one lens, wherein each image corresponds to a different object plane within a thickness of the sample; computationally analyzing each image to determine information about the corresponding object plane based on one or more of the reference marks; and computationally constructing a three-dimensional image of the sample based on the multiple images and the information about the corresponding object planes.
91. The imaging method of claim 90, wherein the determined information about the corresponding object plane comprises a depth of the object plane relative to imaging system.
92. The imaging method of claim 90, wherein at least some of the spacers each have a reference mark.
93. The imaging method of claim 90, wherein the determined information about the corresponding object plane comprises a depth and an orientation of the object plane relative to imaging system.
94. The imaging method of claim 90, wherein the computational analyzing of each image comprises determining a degree of defocus of one or more of the reference marks.
95. The imaging method of claim 90, wherein the computational analyzing of each image comprises determining a depth for each of multiple ones of the reference marks based on a degree of defocus for each such reference mark and determining a depth and an orientation of the corresponding object plane relative to the imaging system based on the determined depths of the reference marks.
96. The imaging method of claim 90, wherein the references marks are not rotationally symmetric with respect to an axis perpendicular to at least one of the plates.
97. The imaging method of claim 90, wherein the computational analyzing of each image comprises determining a rotational orientation of one or more of the reference marks about the axis relative to the imaging system.
98. The imaging method of claim 90, wherein the computational analyzing of each image comprising comparing image information about the reference marks to a priori prior knowledge about the reference marks.
99. The imaging method of claim 98, wherein the prior knowledge about the reference marks is based on one or more of a shape of each reference mark and a location of each reference mark relative to the plates.
100. The imaging method of claim 90, wherein the spacers are pillars.
101. The imaging method of claim 90, wherein the acquiring of the multiple images comprises moving one or more components of the imaging system relative to the plates sandwiching the sample.
102. The imaging method of claim 90, wherein the computational constructing of the three-dimensional image comprises processing each acquired image to remove out-of-focus features.
103. The imaging method of claim 102, wherein the processing of each acquired image to remove out-of-focus features comprises using a band-pass filter.
104. The imaging method of claim 90, wherein the acquired images correspond to interference images formed by combining light from the sample with reference light not directed to the sample on the camera.
105. An imaging apparatus comprising: an imaging system comprising a camera and at least one lens; a sample holder for supporting a sample cartridge relative to the imaging system, the sample cartridge comprising two plates are separated from one another by an array of spacers, at least one of which has a reference mark, wherein a sample to be imaged is configured to be compressed between the two plates; and a processing and control system coupled to the sample holder and the camera and configured to acquire multiple images of the sample using the imaging system, wherein each image corresponds to a different object plane within a thickness of the sample, and wherein the processing and control system is further configured to: computationally analyze each image to determine information about the corresponding object plane based on one or more of the reference marks; and computationally construct a three-dimensional image of the sample based on the multiple images and the information about the corresponding object planes.
106. The imaging apparatus of claim 105, wherein the determined information about the corresponding object plane comprises a depth of the object plane relative to imaging system.
107. The imaging apparatus of claim 105, wherein at least some of the spacers each have a reference mark.
108. The imaging apparatus of claim 105, wherein the determined information about the corresponding object plane comprises a depth and an orientation of the object plane relative to the imaging system.
109. The apparatus of claim 105, wherein the computational analyzing of each image comprises determining a degree of defocus of one or more of the reference marks.
110. The apparatus of claim 105, wherein the computational analyzing of each image comprises determining a depth for each of multiple ones of the reference marks based on a degree of defocus for each such reference mark and determining a depth and an orientation of the corresponding object plane relative to the imaging system based on the determined depths of the reference marks.
111. The apparatus of claim 105, wherein the references marks are not rotationally symmetric with respect to an axis perpendicular to at least one of the plates.
112. The apparatus of claim 105, wherein the computational analyzing of each image comprises determining a rotational orientation of one or more of the reference marks about the axis relative to the imaging system.
113. The apparatus of claim 105, wherein the computational analyzing of each image comprises comparing image information about the reference marks to a prior knowledge about the reference marks.
114. The apparatus of claim 113, wherein the knowledge about the reference marks is based on one or more of a shape of each reference mark and a location of each reference mark relative to the plates.
115. The apparatus of claim 105, wherein the spacers are pillars.
116. The apparatus of claim 105, wherein the control system is configured to move one or more components of the imaging system relative to the plates to acquire the multiple images.
117. The apparatus of claim 105, wherein the computational constructing of the three-dimensional image comprises processing each acquired image to remove out-of-focus features.
118. The apparatus of claim 117 wherein the processing of each acquired image to remove out-of-focus features comprises using a band-pass filter.
119. The apparatus of claim 105, wherein where the acquired images correspond to interference images formed by combining light from the sample with reference light not directed to the sample on the camera.
</claims>
</document>
