<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N99/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMC IP HOLDING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BABU, RATHI
ROY, MAINAK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69163061
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MANAGING CONTENT SEARCHES IN COMPUTING ENVIRONMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A method is used in managing content searches in computing environments. A repository receives a search phrase to retrieve content associated with the search phrase. A metadata analyzer module identifies updated content relevant to at least one first product associated with the retrieved content, where the retrieved content is replaced with the updated content to improve a satisfaction rate associated with the retrieved content. Based on the updated content, a machine learning system identifies second updated content to improve at least one second product satisfaction rate associated with at least one second product.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of managing content searches in computing environments, the method comprising: receiving, by a repository, a search phrase to retrieve content associated with the search phrase; identifying, by a metadata analyzer module, updated content relevant to at least one first product associated with the retrieved content, wherein the retrieved content is replaced with the updated content to improve a satisfaction rate associated with the retrieved content; and based on the updated content, identifying, by a machine learning system, second updated content to improve at least one second product satisfaction rate associated with at least one second product.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: evaluating at least one of an updated content satisfaction rate associated with the updated content, and the at least one second product satisfaction rate.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the updated content satisfaction rate associated with the updated content, and the at least one second product satisfaction rate are evaluated by the metadata analyzer module.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein evaluating the at least one of the updated content satisfaction rate associated with the updated content, and the at least one second product satisfaction rate comprises: performing a comparison between the updated content and metadata associated with preferred content associated with the at least one first product.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying, by the metadata analyzer module, updated content relevant to the at least one first product associated with the retrieved content comprises: filtering the search phrase through a product group filter to identify at least one product group; and identifying a first product group comprising the at least one first product, wherein the at least one product group comprises the first product group.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: identifying at least one third product; and identifying that the updated content is relevant to the third product based on an interdependency between the at least one first product and the third product.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying, by the metadata analyzer module, updated content relevant to the at least one first product associated with the retrieved content comprises: comparing metadata associated with the retrieved content with the search phrase; and determining, based on the comparison, that the metadata negatively impacts the satisfaction rate.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying, by the metadata analyzer module, updated content relevant to the at least one first product associated with the retrieved content comprises: identifying, by the metadata analyzer module, key search phrases associated with at least one product group; and identifying metadata associated with the key search phrases as preferred metadata.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: comparing metadata associated with key search phrase content returned in response to a search using at least one key search phrase with the preferred metadata; and determining whether to update the metadata associated with key search phrase content based on the comparison.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying, by the machine learning system, second updated content to improve the at least one second product satisfaction rate associated with the at least one second product comprises: identifying, by the machine learning system, a strategy associated with the updated content that improved the satisfaction rate; and applying, by the machine learning system, the strategy to second content to determine how to transform the second content into the second updated content.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying, by the machine learning system, second updated content to improve the at least one second product satisfaction rate associated with the at least one second product comprises: identifying, by the machine learning system, the updated content with an improved satisfaction rate; mapping the updated content relevant to the at least one first product to the second updated content relevant to the at least one second product; and updating second content associated with the at least one second product with the second updated content in at least one repository.
12. A system for use in managing content searches in computing environments, the system comprising a processor configured to: receive, by a repository, a search phrase to retrieve content associated with the search phrase; identify, by a metadata analyzer module, updated content relevant to at least one first product associated with the retrieved content, wherein the retrieved content is replaced with the updated content to improve a satisfaction rate associated with the retrieved content; and based on the updated content, identify, by a machine learning system, second updated content to improve at least one second product satisfaction rate associated with at least one second product.
13. The system of claim 12, further configured to: evaluate at least one of an updated content satisfaction rate associated with the updated content, and the at least one second product satisfaction rate.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor configured to identify, by the metadata analyzer module, updated content relevant to the at least one first product associated with the retrieved content is further configured to: filter the search phrase through a product group filter to identify at least one product group; and identify a first product group comprising the at least one first product, wherein the at least one product group comprises the first product group.
15. The system of claim 14, further configured to: identify at least one third product; and identify that the updated content is relevant to the third product based on an interdependency between the at least one first product and the third product.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor configured to identify, by the metadata analyzer module, updated content relevant to the at least one first product associated with the retrieved content is further configured to: identify, by the metadata analyzer module, key search phrases associated with at least one product group; and identify metadata associated with the key search phrases as preferred metadata.
17. The system of claim 16, further configured to: compare metadata associated with key search phrase content returned in response to a search using at least one key search phrase with the preferred metadata; and determine whether to update the metadata associated with key search phrase content based on the comparison.
18. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor configured to identify, by the machine learning system, second updated content to improve the at least one second product satisfaction rate associated with the at least one second product is further configured to: identify, by the machine learning system, a strategy associated with the updated content that improved the satisfaction rate; and apply, by the machine learning system, the strategy to second content to determine how to transform the second content into the second updated content.
19. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor configured to identify, by the machine learning system, second updated content to improve the at least one second product satisfaction rate associated with the at least one second product is further configured to: identify, by the machine learning system, the updated content with an improved satisfaction rate; map the updated content relevant to the at least one first product to the second updated content relevant to the at least one second product; and update second content associated with the at least one second product with the second updated content in at least one repository.
20. A computer program product for managing content searches in computing environments, the computer program product comprising: a computer readable storage medium having computer executable program code embodied therewith, the program code executable by a computer processor to: receive, by a repository, a search phrase to retrieve content associated with the search phrase; identify, by a metadata analyzer module, updated content relevant to at least one first product associated with the retrieved content, wherein the retrieved content is replaced with the updated content to improve a satisfaction rate associated with the retrieved content; and based on the updated content, identify, by a machine learning system, second updated content to improve at least one second product satisfaction rate associated with at least one second product.
</claims>
</document>
