<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/18,G06K9/62,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
GEYIK, SAHIN C.
KENTHAPADI, KRISHNARAM
Ambler, Stuart M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69383950
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
QUANTIFYING BIAS IN MACHINE LEARNING MODELS
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments provide a system for quantifying machine learning model bias. During operation, the system obtains a set of qualified candidates that match parameters of a request. Next, the system obtains a ranking of recommended candidates outputted by a machine learning model after the qualified candidates are inputted into the machine learning model. The system then generates a first distribution of an attribute in the ranking of recommended candidates and a second distribution of the attribute in the qualified candidates. The system also calculates, based on the first and second distributions, a skew metric representing a difference between a first proportion of the attribute value in the ranking of recommended candidates and a second proportion of the attribute value in the qualified candidates. Finally, the system outputs the skew metric for use in evaluating bias in the machine learning model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: obtaining a set of qualified candidates that match parameters of a request; obtaining a ranking of recommended candidates outputted by a machine learning model after the set of qualified candidates is inputted into the machine learning model, wherein the recommended candidates are a subset of the set of qualified candidates; generating, by one or more computer systems, a first distribution of an attribute in the ranking of recommended candidates and a second distribution of the attribute in the set of qualified candidates; calculating, by the one or more computer systems based on the first and second distributions, a skew metric representing a difference between a first proportion of an attribute value of the attribute in the ranking of recommended candidates and a second proportion of the attribute value in the set of qualified candidates; and outputting the skew metric for use in evaluating bias in the machine learning model.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: calculating a divergence metric representing a divergence of the first distribution from the second distribution across all values of the attribute; and outputting the divergence metric with the skew metric.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein calculating the divergence metric comprises: calculating, for varying numbers of top-ranked candidates in the ranking of recommended candidates, values of a divergence of the first distribution from the second distribution; and aggregating the values into a cumulative divergence of the first distribution from the second distribution.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein aggregating the values into the cumulative divergence of the first distribution from the second distribution comprises: weighting the values based on a number of the top-ranked candidates used to calculate each of the values.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the divergence comprises a Jensen-Shannon (JS) divergence.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the skew metric comprises: calculating the first proportion from a selected number of top-ranked candidates in the ranking of recommended candidates and the second proportion from the set of qualified candidates; and applying a logarithm to a fraction comprising the first proportion divided by the second proportion to produce the skew metric.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein calculating the skew metric further comprises: calculating values of the skew metric for varying numbers of top-ranked candidates in the ranking of recommended candidates; and aggregating the values into a cumulative skew of the attribute value in the first proportion from the second proportion.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein aggregating the values into the cumulative skew of the attribute value comprises: weighting the values based on a number of the top-ranked candidates used to calculate each of the values.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein outputting the skew metric comprises: outputting a first value of the skew metric that is calculated prior to applying a bias-mitigation technique to the ranking; and outputting a second value of the skew metric that is calculated after the bias-mitigation technique is applied to the ranking.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein outputting the skew metric comprises: generating a visualization comprising a third distribution of the skew metric.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the set of qualified candidates that match the parameters of the request comprises: determining, at each partition in a set of partitions, a static ranking of candidates that match the parameters of the request; and returning a pre-specified number of top-ranked candidates from the static ranking as a subset of the qualified candidates.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the attribute is at least one of: a gender; an age range; an ethnicity; and a combination of two or more attributes.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the parameters comprise at least one of: a location; an industry; a title; a skill; a school; a degree; a company; a work experience; and a seniority.
14. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to: obtain a set of qualified candidates that match parameters of a request; obtain a ranking of recommended candidates outputted by a machine learning model after the set of qualified candidates is inputted into the machine learning model, wherein the recommended candidates are a subset of the set of qualified candidates; generate a first distribution of an attribute in the ranking of recommended candidates and a second distribution of the attribute in the set of qualified candidates; calculate, based on the first and second distributions, a skew metric representing a difference between a first proportion of an attribute value of the attribute in the ranking of recommended candidates and a second proportion of the attribute value in the set of qualified candidates; and output the skew metric for use in evaluating bias in the machine learning model.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the memory further stores instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: calculating a divergence metric representing a divergence of the first distribution from the second distribution across all values of the attribute; and outputting the divergence metric with the skew metric.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein calculating the divergence metric comprises: calculating, for varying numbers of top-ranked candidates in the ranking of recommended candidates, values of a Jensen-Shannon (JS) divergence of the first distribution from the second distribution; and aggregating the values into a cumulative divergence of the first distribution from the second distribution.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein calculating the skew metric comprises: calculating the first proportion from a selected number of top-ranked candidates in the ranking of recommended candidates and the second proportion from the set of qualified candidates; and applying a logarithm to a fraction comprising the first proportion divided by the second proportion to produce the skew metric.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein calculating the skew metric further comprises: calculating values of the skew metric for varying numbers of top-ranked candidates in the ranking of recommended candidates; and aggregating the values into a cumulative skew of the attribute value in the first proportion from the second proportion.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein the attribute is at least one of: a gender; an age range; an ethnicity; and a combination of two or more attributes.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform a method, the method comprising: obtaining a set of qualified candidates that match parameters of a request; obtaining a ranking of recommended candidates outputted by a machine learning model after the set of qualified candidates is inputted into the machine learning model, wherein the recommended candidates are a subset of the set of qualified candidates; generating a first distribution of an attribute in the ranking of recommended candidates and a second distribution of the attribute in the set of qualified candidates; calculating, based on the first and second distributions, a skew metric representing a difference between a first proportion of an attribute value of the attribute in the ranking of recommended candidates and a second proportion of the attribute value in the set of qualified candidates; and outputting the skew metric for use in evaluating bias in the machine learning model.
</claims>
</document>
