<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G06N20/00,G16H10/40,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEUMANN, KENNETH
</assignee>

<inventors>
NEUMANN, KENNETH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72662087
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR UTILIZING DIAGNOSTICS FOR INFORMED VIBRANT CONSTITUIONAL GUIDANCE
</title>

<abstract>
A system for utilizing diagnostics for informed vibrant constitutional guidance includes a diagnostic engine operating on at least a server and configured to receive a first training set including a plurality of first data entries, receive a second training set including a plurality of second data entries, receive at least a biological extraction from a user and generate a diagnostic output including at least a prognostic label and at least an ameliorative process label using the first training set, the second training set, and the at least a biological extraction. The system includes at least an advisory module operating on at least the server and configured to generate at least an advisory output as a function of the diagnostic output and transmit the at last an advisory output to at least an advisor client device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for utilizing diagnostics for informed vibrant constitutional guidance, the system comprising: at least a server; a diagnostic engine operating on the at least a server, wherein the diagnostic engine is configured to: generate a machine learning model, wherein th machine-learning model comprises a trained machine-learning model trained by a first training data set and a second training data set; wherein the machine-learning model is configured receive the at least a biological extraction as an input and output a diagnostic output including at least a prognostic output and at least an ameliorative process output; wherein the first training data set includes a plurality of first data entries, each first data entry of the plurality of first data entries including at least an element of physiological state data and at least a correlated first prognostic label; and wherein the second training data includes a plurality of second data entries, each second data entry of the plurality of second data entries including at least a second prognostic label and at least a correlated ameliorative process label; and at least an advisory module, operating on the at least a server, the at least an advisory module designed and configured to: generate an advisory output as a function of the diagnostic output wherein the advisory output comprises textual data identifying the diagnostic output and wherein the textual data identifying the diagnostic output is configured to be displayed on an advisor client device; and transmit the advisory output to the advisor client device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein: the diagnostic engine further comprises a prognostic label learner; and the prognostic label learner is designed and configured to generate the at least a prognostic output as a function of the first training data set and at least a biological extraction.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the prognostic label learner is designed and configured to generate the at least a prognostic output as a function of a classification of the at least a prognostic output.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the classification of the prognostic label further comprises a progression of a medical condition.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein: the diagnostic engine further comprises an ameliorative label learner; and the ameliorative label learner is designed and configured to generate the at least an ameliorative output as a function of the second training data set and the at least a prognostic output.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the ameliorative process label learner is designed and configured to generate the at least an ameliorative output as a function of a classification of the at least a prognostic output.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the classification of the at least a prognostic output further comprises staging of at least a prognostic output.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the advisory module is configured to receive at least an informed advisor input.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the advisory output further comprises a textual entry field configured to be displayed on the advisor client device.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the advisory output further comprises a relevance field.
11. A method of utilizing diagnostics for informed vibrant constitutional guidance the method comprising: generating, by a diagnostic engine operating on the at least a server, a machine-learning model, wherein the machine-learning model comprises a trained machine-learning model trained by a first training data set and a second training data set; wherein the machine-learning model is configured to receive the at least a biological extraction as an input and output a diagnostic output including at least a prognostic output and at least an ameliorative process output; wherein the first training data set includes a plurality of first data entries, each first data entry of the plurality of first data entries including at least an element of physiological state data and at least a correlated first prognostic label; and wherein the second training data includes a plurality of second data entries, each second data entry of the plurality of second data entries including at least a second prognostic label and at least a correlated ameliorative process label; generating, by an advisory module operating on at least the server, an advisory output as a function of the diagnostic output, wherein the advisory output comprises textual data identifying the diagnostic output and wherein the textual data identifying the diagnostic output is configured to be displayed on an advisor client device; and transmitting, by the advisory module operating on at least the server, the advisory output to the advisor client device.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the prognostic label is generated by a prognostic label learner operating on the diagnostic engine, wherein the prognostic label learner is designed and configured to generate the at least a prognostic output as a function of the first training data set and at least a biological extraction.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the prognostic output is generated as a function of a classification of the prognostic label.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the ameliorative process label is generated by an ameliorative process label learner operating on the diagnostic engine, wherein the ameliorative process label learner designed and configured to generate the at least an ameliorative output as a function of the second training data set and the at least a prognostic output.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the at least an ameliorative output is generated as a function of a classification of the at least a prognostic output.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the advisory output further comprises a textual entry field.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising generating, by a plan generation module operating on at least the server, a comprehensive instruction set associated with the user as a function of the diagnostic output and the at least an advisory output.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein generating the comprehensive instruction set further comprises: determining that a first prognostic label of the at least a prognostic output and a second prognostic label of the at least a prognostic output belong to a shared category; and adding a category label associated with the shared category to the comprehensive instruction set.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein generating the comprehensive instruction set further comprises: determining that a first ameliorative label of the at least an ameliorative output and a second ameliorative label of the at least an ameliorative output belong to a shared category; and adding a category label associated with the shared category to the comprehensive instruction set.
20. The method of claim 17 further comprising receiving at least an informed advisor input.
</claims>
</document>
