<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOXWELL, STEPHEN A.
VERNIER, STANLEY J.
BRAKE, KYLE M.
FROST, KEITH G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72515863
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic Source Reliability Formulation
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments relate to an intelligent computer platform to use ground truth data to rate source reliability, and application of the source reliability. A computer system, computer program product, and computer implemented method apply the ground truth data to evaluate a source, assess source reliability, and dynamically apply the assessed reliability. The assessed reliability is dynamically applied to response data, with the application yielding selective presentation of the response data based on the applied reliability assessment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising: a processing unit operatively coupled to memory; a knowledge engine in communication with the processing unit, the knowledge engine to evaluate source reliability, including: an assessment manager to assess reliability of a source, including: present ground truth question and answer data to the source; receive source answer data; evaluate the received source answer data; and calculate a source reliability score of the source based on the presented ground truth data and the source answer data; a director to dynamically apply the assessed source reliability to a submission, including: obtain source response data responsive to the applied submission; and apply the source reliability score to the source response data; and the response data selectively presented based on the applied source reliability.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising the director to obtaining two or more submission responses from two or more sources, including a first response obtained from a first source and a second response obtained from a second source, the director to calculate a first response reliability score and a second response reliability score, and to sort the first and second responses based on the first and second reliability scores.
3. The system of claim 2, further comprising the director to apply indicia to the selectively presented response data , the applied indicia corresponding to the calculated response reliability scores.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a natural language processing (NLP) manager to observe a communication, and apply natural language processing (NLP) to the communication, the NLP to identify submission data for presentation to the source.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the dynamic application of the assessed source reliability to the response data further comprising the director to adjust a weighting of the source response data, wherein the adjustment corresponds to a confidence level associated with source reliability.
6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a machine learning (ML) manager to apply a machine ML algorithm to the source, including: evaluate a plurality of source answers to a submitted question, each source answer having string data with one or more feature values, the evaluation including an assessment of a correlation between each source answer feature value and the source reliability score; and apply the assessed correlation to the obtained source response data, wherein the correlation is a factor in the application of the source reliability score to the source response data.
7. A computer program product for dynamically assessing reliability, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, the program code executable by a processor to: assess reliability of a source, including: present ground truth question and answer data to the source, receive source answer data, evaluate the source answer data, and calculate a source reliability score of the source based on the presented ground truth data and the source answer data; dynamically apply the assessed source reliability to a submission, including: obtain source response data responsive to the applied submission; and apply the source reliability score to the source response data; and selectively present the response data based on the applied source reliability.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, further comprising program code to obtain two or more submission responses from two or more sources, including a first response from a first source and a second response from a second source, calculate a first response reliability score and a second response reliability score, and sort the first and second responses based on the first and second reliability scores.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising program code to apply indicia to the selectively presented response data , the applied indicia corresponding to the calculated response reliability scores.
10. The computer program product of claim 7, further comprising program code to observe a communication, and apply natural language processing (NLP) to the communication, the NLP identifying submission data for presentation to the source.
11. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the dynamic application of the assessed source reliability to the response data further comprising program code to adjust a weighting of the source response data, wherein the adjustment corresponds to a confidence level associated with source reliability.
12. The computer program product of claim 7, further comprising program code to apply a machine learning (ML) algorithm to the source, including program code to: evaluate a plurality of source answers to a submitted question, each source answer having string data with one or more feature values, the evaluation including program code to assess a correlation between each source answer feature value and the source reliability score; and apply the assessed correlation to the obtained source response data, wherein the correlation is a factor in the application of the source reliability score to the source response data.
13. A method for dynamically assessing reliability comprising: assessing reliability of a source, including presenting ground truth question and answer data to the source, receiving source answer data, evaluating the source answer data, and calculating a source reliability score of the source based on the presented ground truth data and the source answer data; dynamically applying the assessed source reliability to a submission, including: obtaining source response data responsive to the applied submission; and applying the source reliability score to the source response data; selectively presenting the response data based on the applied source reliability.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising obtaining two or more submission responses from two or more sources, including a first response from a first source and a second response from a second source, calculating a first response reliability score and a second response reliability score, and sorting the first and second responses based on the first and second reliability scores.
15. The method of claim 13, further comprising observing a communication, and applying natural language processing (NLP) to the communication, the NLP identifying submission data for presentation to the source.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the dynamic application of the assessed source reliability to the response data further comprising adjusting a weighting of the source response data, wherein the adjustment corresponds to a confidence level associated with source reliability.
17. The method of claim 13, further comprising applying a machine learning (ML) algorithm to the source, including: evaluating a plurality of source answers to a submitted question, each source answer having string data with one or more feature values, the evaluation including assessing a correlation between each source answer feature value and the source reliability score; and applying the assessed correlation to the obtained source response data, wherein the correlation is a factor in the application of the source reliability score to the source response data.
</claims>
</document>
