<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,H04W84/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERITONE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KETTLER, DAVID
NGUYEN, PETER
SCHWAMB, KARL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69228871
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NEURAL NETWORK ORCHESTRATION
</title>

<abstract>
Rather than randomly selecting neural networks to classify a media file, the conductor can determine which neural network engines (from the conductor ecosystem of neural networks) are the best candidates to classify a particular portion/segment of the media file (e.g., audio file, image file, video files). The best candidate neural network engine(s) can depend on the nature of the input media and the characteristics of the neural network engines. In object recognition and identification, certain neural networks can classify vehicles better than others, while another group of neural networks can classify structures better. The conductor can take out the guess work and construct in real-time an inter-class neural network using one or more layers selected from one or more pre-trained neural network, based on attribute(s) of the media file, to classify the media file.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method classifying an input file, the method comprising: selecting, using a trained layer selection neural network, a plurality of layers from an ecosystem of pre-trained neural networks based on one or more attributes of the input file; constructing, in real-time, a new neural network using the plurality of layers selected from one or more neural networks in the ecosystem, wherein the new neural network is fully-layered, and the selected plurality of layers are selected from one or more pre-trained neural network; and classifying the input file using the new fully-layered neural network.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the input file comprises an image having a first and second object, wherein the new neural network is constructed based on one or more attributes of the first object.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: selecting, using the trained layer selection neural network, a second plurality of layers from one or more neural networks in the ecosystem based on one or more attributes of the second object; constructing, in real-time, a second neural network using the second plurality of layers selected from the ecosystem, wherein the second neural network is fully-layered; and classifying the second object using the second fully-layered neural network.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the ecosystem of pre-trained neural networks comprises multiple neural networks of different network architectures.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the input file is a multimedia file, and wherein new neural network comprises of layers of different classes of data comprising audio, object, and text.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising analyzing the input file to identify one or more attributes of the input file prior to selecting the plurality of layers from the ecosystem.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the trained layer selection neural network is trained to match one or more attributes of the input file to features of a layer of a neural network in the ecosystem.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the trained layer selection neural network is trained to match one or more attributes of the input file to a portion of a layer of a neural network in the ecosystem.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the trained layer selection neural network is trained to match one or more attributes of the input file to one or more neurons of a layer of a neural network in the ecosystem.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein constructing the new neural network using the plurality of layers selected from one or more neural networks in the ecosystem comprises activating the selected plurality of layers while disabling non-selected layers from the ecosystem of layers of pre-trained neural networks, wherein only activated layers can receive or output encoded data in classifying the input file.
11. A neural network system comprising: an ecosystem of pre-trained neural networks having a plurality of network architectures; a layer activation neural network model configured to activate a plurality of layers from one or more neural networks in the ecosystem of pre-trained neural networks based on one or more attributes of an input file to form a fully-layered ad hoc neural network; and a processor coupled to a memory, the processor configured to classify the input file using the fully-layered ad hoc neural network.
12. The neural network system of claim 11, wherein the input file comprises an image having a first and second object, wherein the fully-layered ad hoc neural network is formed based on one or more attributes of the first object.
13. The neural network system of claim 12, wherein the layer activation neural network model is further configured to form, in real-time, a second fully-layered ad hoc neural network by activating a set of layers selected from the ecosystem, wherein the second neural network is fully-layered; and wherein the processor is configured to classify the second object using the second fully-layered ad hoc neural network.
14. The neural network system of claim 11, wherein the ecosystem of pre-trained neural networks comprises multiple neural networks of different network architectures.
15. The neural network system of claim 11, wherein the input file is a multimedia file, and wherein new neural network comprises of layers of different classes of data comprising audio, object, and text.
16. The neural network system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to analyze the input file to identify one or more attributes of the input file prior to the layer activation neural network model activating the plurality of layers from the ecosystem.
17. The neural network system of claim 11, wherein the trained layer selection neural network is trained to match one or more attributes of the input file to features of a layer of a neural network in the ecosystem.
18. The neural network system of claim 11, wherein the layer activation neural network model is trained to match one or more attributes of the input file to a portion of a layer of a neural network in the ecosystem.
19. The neural network system of claim 11, wherein the layer activation neural network model is trained to match one or more attributes of the input file to one or more neurons of a layer of a neural network in the ecosystem.
20. The neural network system of claim 11, wherein constructing the fully-layered ad hoc neural network using the plurality of layers selected from one or more neural networks in the ecosystem comprises activating the selected plurality of layers while disabling non-selected layers from the ecosystem of pre-trained neural networks having many layers, wherein only activated layers can receive or output encoded data in classifying the input file.
</claims>
</document>
