<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G09B19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
GAYMOND, OLIVER THOMAS
JENKINS, THOMAS
JÖNSSON, MÅRTEN ANDREAS
KOBILANSKY, NICOLE
KOSER, MIKKEL CRONE
PAULINA, LUCA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69587250
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FRAMEWORK FOR A COMPUTING SYSTEM THAT ALTERS USER BEHAVIOR
</title>

<abstract>
An example method includes obtaining user consent to collect and make use of personal information for providing behavioral coaching; obtaining contextual and fitness related information of a user; determining, by inputting the contextual and fitness related information into a model that defines a motivational state, a current motivational state of the user; determining, based at least in part on the current motivational state of the user, a type of information to output as part of the behavioral coaching, wherein the type of information is selected from a group comprising education information, inspirational information, and achievement information; determining, based on the type of information to output, a channel for outputting the type of information as part of the behavioral coaching; and outputting, by the computing device, via the channel, a notification including content of the type of information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: obtaining, by a computing device, user consent to collect and make use of personal information for providing behavioral coaching; obtaining, by the computing device, contextual and fitness related information of a user; determining, by the computing device, by inputting the contextual and fitness related information into a model that defines a motivational state, a current motivational state of the user; determining, based at least in part on the current motivational state of the user, a type of information to output as part of the behavioral coaching, wherein the type of information is selected from a group comprising education information, inspirational information, and achievement information; determining, based on the type of information to output, a channel for outputting the type of information as part of the behavioral coaching; and outputting, by the computing device, via the channel, a notification including content of the type of information.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the current motivational state of the user is determined from a plurality of motivational states, and wherein the plurality of motivational states includes one or more of a preparation state, an action state, a maintenance state, and a regress state.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the current motivational state of the user comprises determining a first motivational state of the user at a first time, the method further comprising: obtaining, by the computing device and after the first time, second contextual and fitness related information of the user; determining, by the computing device, by inputting the second contextual and fitness related information into the model, a second motivational state of the user.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein determining the second motivational state of the user comprises: obtaining transition rules between the first motivational state and the second motivational state, wherein determining the second motivational state of the user comprises determining, based on the transition rules and the second contextual and fitness related information, that the user has transitioned to the second motivational state.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein determining the type of information to output comprises: responsive to determining that the user has transitioned to the second motivational state, determining an initial type of information to output.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the channel for outputting the type of information comprises: selecting, based on one or more rules, a particular format or form for outputting the notification including content of the type of information.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein selecting the particular format or form comprises: selecting a particular surface on which to output the notification including content of the type of information.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein: the computing device is a first computing device, selecting the particular surface comprises selecting a display of a second computing device, the second computing device being different than the first computing device, and outputting the notification via the channel comprises outputting, by the first computing device, a request for the second computing device to output the notification.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the second computing device is a wearable computing device.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein selecting the display of the second computing device comprises selecting the display of the second computing device responsive to determining that the current motivational state of the user is an action motivational state.
11. A computing device comprising: at least one processor; memory comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: obtain user consent to collect and make use of personal information for providing behavioral coaching; obtain contextual and fitness related information of a user; determine, by inputting the contextual and fitness related information into a model that defines a motivational state, a current motivational state of the user; determine, based at least in part on the current motivational state of the user, a type of information to output as part of the behavioral coaching, wherein the type of information is selected from a group comprising education information, inspirational information, and achievement information; determine, based on the type of information to output, a channel for outputting the type of information as part of the behavioral coaching; and output, via the channel, a notification including content of the type of information.
12. The computing device of claim 11, further comprising: one or more sensors configured to generate data, wherein the instructions that cause the at least one processor to obtain the contextual and fitness related information of the user comprise instructions that cause the at least one processor to obtain the contextual and fitness related information of the user based on the data generated by the one or more sensors.
13. The computing device of claim 12, wherein the one or more sensors include a heart rate sensor.
14. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the instructions that cause the at least one processor to determine the current motivational state of the user comprise instructions that cause the at least one processor to determine a first motivational state of the user at a first time, the memory further comprising instructions that cause the at least one processor to: obtain, after the first time, second contextual and fitness related information of the user; determine, by inputting the second contextual and fitness related information into the model, a second motivational state of the user.
15. The computing device of claim 14, wherein the instructions that cause the at least one processor to determine the second motivational state of the user comprise instructions that cause the at least one processor to: obtain transition rules between the first motivational state and the second motivational state, wherein the instructions that cause the at least one processor to determine the second motivational state of the user comprise instructions that cause the at least one processor to determine, based on the transition rules and the second contextual and fitness related information, that the user has transitioned to the second motivational state.
16. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the instructions that cause the at least one processor to determine the type of information to output comprise instructions that cause the at least one processor to: determine, responsive to determining that the user has transitioned to the second motivational state, an initial type of information to output.
17. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the instructions that cause the at least one processor to determine the channel for outputting the type of information comprise instructions that cause the at least one processor to: select, based on one or more rules, a particular format or form for outputting the notification including content of the type of information.
18. The computing device of claim 17, wherein the instructions that cause the at least one processor to select the particular format or form comprise instructions that cause the at least one processor to: select a particular surface on which to output the notification including content of the type of information.
19. The computing device of claim 18, wherein: The instructions that cause the at least one processor to select the particular surface comprise instructions that cause the at least one processor to select a display of a second computing device, the second computing device being different than the computing device, and instructions that cause the at least one processor to output the notification via the channel comprise instructions that cause the at least one processor to output, to the second computing device, a request for the second computing device to output the notification.
20. A computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed, cause one or more processors of a computing device to obtain user consent to collect and make use of personal information for providing behavioral coaching; obtain contextual and fitness related information of a user; determine, by inputting the contextual and fitness related information into a model that defines a motivational state, a current motivational state of the user; determine, based at least in part on the current motivational state of the user, a type of information to output as part of the behavioral coaching, wherein the type of information is selected from a group comprising education information, inspirational information, and achievement information; determine, based on the type of information to output, a channel for outputting the type of information as part of the behavioral coaching; and output, via the channel, a notification including content of the type of information.
</claims>
</document>
