<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/02,A61B5/0205,A61B5/024,A61B5/05,A61B5/11,A61B5/113,A61B8/08,G06F3/16,G10K15/04,G10L25/66,G16H20/30,G16H40/40,G16H40/67,G16H50/20,G16H50/30,G16H50/50,H04R1/02,H04R1/08,H04R3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RESMED SENSOR TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
WREN, Michael
SHOULDICE, Redmond
MCMAHON, Stephen
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65011989
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS, SYSTEM, AND METHOD FOR HEALTH AND MEDICAL SENSING
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and devices provide physiological movement detection, such as breathing, cardiac and/or gross body motion, with active sound generation using electronic processing device(s). The processor may control producing, via a speaker coupled to the processor, a sound signal in a user's vicinity. The processor may control sensing, via a microphone coupled to the processor, a reflected sound signal. This reflected sound signal is a reflection of the sound signal from the vicinity or user. The processor may process the reflected sound, such as by a demodulation technique. The sound signal may be produced as a dual tone frequency modulation continuous wave signal. Evaluation of detected movement information may determine sleep states or scoring, fatigue indications, subject recognition, chronic disease monitoring/prediction, and other output parameters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A processor-readable medium, having stored thereon processor-executable instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to detect physiological movement of a user, the processor-executable instructions comprising: instructions to control producing, via a speaker coupled to an electronic processing device, a sound signal in a vicinity of the electronic processing device; instructions to control sensing, via a microphone coupled to the electronic processing device, a reflected sound signal from the vicinity; and instructions to derive a physiological movement signal with at least a portion of the sensed reflected sound signal and a signal representative of at least a portion of the sound signal, wherein the sound signal comprises a dual tone frequency modulated continuous wave signal.
2. The processor-readable medium of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the produced sound signal is in an inaudible sound range.
3. The processor-readable medium of claim 2 wherein the portion of the produced sound signal is a low frequency ultrasonic acoustic signal.
4. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the processor-executable instructions to derive the physiological movement signal comprise demodulation of the portion of the sensed reflected sound signal with the signal representative of the portion of the sound signal.
5. The processor-readable medium of claim 4 wherein the demodulation comprises a multiplication of the signal representative of the portion of the sound signal, and the portion of the sensed reflected sound signal.
6. The processor-readable medium of claim 1 wherein demodulation to derive the physiological movement signal comprises a multiplication of a received signal with itself, the received signal including the portion of the sensed reflected sound signal and direct path sound from at least a portion of the sound signal.
7. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein the derivation of the physiological movement signal further comprises detection of one or more of respiration, cardiac and gross movement.
8. The processor-readable medium of claim 1 wherein the signal representative of the portion of the sound signal is an internally generated oscillator signal or a direct path measured sound signal.
9. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the instructions to derive the physiological movement signal are configured to multiply an oscillator signal with the portion of the sensed reflected sound signal.
10. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 9 further comprising processor-executable instructions to filter the portion of the sensed reflected sound signal with an adaptive filter configured to change a passband of the adaptive filter based on any one of a timing of at least a portion of the produced sound signal and a timing of the portion of the sensed reflected sound signal.
11. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 10 further comprising processor-executable instructions to sum the sound signal and audible audio content to produce the sound signal and the audible audio content simultaneously via the speaker.
12. The processor-readable medium of claim 11 further comprising processor-executable instructions to filter the audible audio content based on frequencies of the sound signal before summing the sound signal and audible audio content.
13. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 12 further comprising processor-executable instructions to control a variation of a detection scheme of the sound signal depending on detected presence of a subject in the vicinity, wherein the instructions vary waveform parameters of at least a portion the sound signal.
14. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 13 further comprising processor-executable instructions to generate a continuous wave sound signal for motion detection, and to initiate, upon detection of user motion in the vicinity, producing the dual tone frequency modulated continuous wave signal via the speaker.
15. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 14 further comprising processor-executable instructions to generate an ultra-wide band (UWB) sound signal as audible white noise, and wherein the processor-readable medium comprises instructions to detect user motion with the UWB sound signal.
16. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 15 wherein the dual tone frequency modulated continuous wave signal comprises a first sawtooth frequency change overlapped with a second sawtooth frequency change in a repeated waveform.
17. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 16 wherein the produced sound signal provides a cosine-like functional time domain shape including zero crossings.
18. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 17 further comprising processor-executable instructions to evaluate the derived physiological movement signal to determine one or more physiological parameters.
19. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 18 further comprising processor-executable instructions to generate an output based on an evaluation of the derived physiological movement signal.
20. The processor-readable medium of claim 19 wherein the output comprises: (a) output data representing any one or more of: a human presence state; presence or absence of motion in the physiological movement signal; a sleep state; sleep walking; a breathing characteristic; a cardiac characteristic; a gross movement characteristic; a sleep characteristic; an event of sleep disordered breathing; an event of periodic breathing; a respiratory condition; a fatigue condition; a wellness score; a chronic disease condition; a sleepiness condition; and a fatigue condition; or (b) initiating an event based on any of the output data.
21. The processor-readable medium of claim 20 wherein the initiated event includes turning a device, or a process associated with the device, on or off; and/or introducing an adjustment to an operation of a device, or a process associated with the device.
22. The processor-readable medium of claim 21 wherein the device is a respiratory therapy device, and the process is associated with a respiratory therapy device.
23. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 22 further comprising processor-executable instructions to evaluate an audible verbal command sensed via the microphone and to provide the output via the speaker in response to the audible verbal command.
24. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 23 further comprising processor-executable instructions to demodulate at least a portion of the sound signal and the portion of the sensed reflected sound signal to produce quadrature baseband motion signals.
25. The processor-readable medium of claim 24 further comprising processor-executable instructions to process the quadrature baseband motion signals by one or more filters to isolate a frequency range attributable to one or more of respiration movement, gross body movement and cardiac movement.
26. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 25 further comprising processor-executable instructions to bin search in fast Fourier transform windows derived with the physiological movement signal to select a range associated with user motion.
27. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 26 further comprising processor-executable instructions to detect and recognize an audible sound of a respiratory pressure therapy device sensed by the microphone.
28. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 27 further comprising processor-executable instructions to detect a cardiac variability and correlate the cardiac variability with respect to a present and absent respiratory therapy.
29. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 28 further comprising processor-executable instructions to play an audible query through the speaker in response to an analysis of the physiological movement signal.
30. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 29 further comprising processor-executable instructions to correlate detected movement and therapy compliance.
31. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 30 further comprising processor-executable instructions to infer therapy non-compliance for a user based on a detection of sleep quality of another user.
32. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 31 further comprising processor-executable instructions to detect therapy non-compliance and compliance based on sound detection of operation and lack of operation of a therapy device.
33. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 32 further comprising processor-executable instructions to generate output advice based on detected therapy compliance or non-compliance of a user, the generated output advice based on sleep detection from multiple users including the user, the generated output advice urging the user to maintain compliance.
34. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 33 further comprising processor-executable instructions to chirp filter sound sensed by the microphone to isolate the portion of the sensed reflected sound signal.
35. The processor-readable medium of claim 34 wherein to chirp filter the processor digitally filters with a pass band in a frequency range of the produced sound signal.
36. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 35 further comprising processor-executable instructions to selectively change modulation parameters of production of at least a portion of the sound signal to sense motion in the vicinity of the electronic processing device with different sound signal modulation characteristics.
37. The processor-readable medium of claim 36 wherein the different sound signal modulation characteristics comprise any two or more of continuous wave (CW), frequency modulated continuous wave (FMCW), ultra-wide band (UWB), frequency-shift keying (FSK) and phase-shift keying (PSK).
38. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 37 further comprising processor-executable instructions to generate an output generated by classifying features of the physiological movement signal wherein the features comprise hand-crafted features and machine-learned features.
39. The processor-readable medium of claim 38 wherein the output generated by classifying features of the physiological movement signal comprises one or more of: a sleep stage and/or a sleep state; an event of sleep disordered breathing; and an apnea-hypopnea count.
40. The processor-readable medium of claim 39 further comprising processor-executable instructions to generate therapy usage advice based on the generated apnea-hypopnea count.
41. The processor-readable medium of claim 39 further comprising processor-executable instructions to correlate generated apnea-hypopnea counts with use and non-use of respiratory therapy apparatus.
42. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 41 wherein the electronic processing device comprises a smart phone or a smart watch.
43. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 42, further comprising instructions related to synchronization including a cross-correlation of a sensed reflected signal with a sensed direct path signal.
44. The processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 43, further comprising instructions for a synchronization process comprising multiplying a reference template with at least a portion of the sensed reflected sound signal.
45. A server with access to the processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 44, wherein the server is configured to receive requests for downloading the processor-executable instructions of the processor-readable medium to the electronic processing device over a network.
46. An electronic processing device comprising: one or more processors; a speaker coupled to the one or more processors; a microphone coupled to the one or more processors; and (a) a processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 44 or (b) wherein the electronic processing device is configured to access the processor-executable instructions with the server of claim 45.
47. The electronic processing device of claim 46 wherein the electronic processing device is one of a mobile phone or a smart speaker.
48. The electronic processing device of claim 46 wherein the electronic processing device is a respiratory pressure therapy device.
49. A method of a server having access to the processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 44, the method comprising receiving, at the server, a request for downloading the processor-executable instructions of the processor-readable medium to an electronic processing device over a network; and transmitting the processor-executable instructions to the electronic processing device in response to the request.
50. A method of a processor for detecting body movement using an electronic processing device, comprising: accessing, with a processor, the processor-readable medium of any one of claims 1 to 44, and executing, in the processor, the processor-executable instructions of the processor-readable medium.
51. A method of a processor for detecting movement using an electronic processing device, comprising: controlling producing, via a speaker coupled to the processing device, a sound signal in a vicinity of the electronic processing device; controlling sensing, via a microphone coupled to the processing device, a reflected sound signal from the vicinity; and controlling, in the processor, deriving of a physiological movement signal with at least a portion of the sensed reflected sound signal and a signal representative of at least a portion of the sound signal, wherein the sound signal comprises a dual tone frequency modulated continuous wave signal.
52. The method of claim 51 wherein at least a portion of the produced sound signal is in an inaudible sound range.
53. The method of claim 52 wherein the portion of the produced sound signal is a low frequency ultrasonic acoustic signal.
54. The method of any one of claims 51 to 53 wherein the deriving the physiological movement signal comprises demodulation of the portion of the sensed reflected sound signal with the signal representative of the portion of the sound signal.
55. The method of claim 54 wherein the demodulation comprises a multiplication of the signal representative of the portion of the sound signal, and the portion of the sensed reflected sound signal.
56. The method of claim 51 wherein demodulation to derive the physiological movement signal comprises a multiplication of a received signal with itself, the received signal including the portion of the sensed reflected sound signal and direct path sound from at least a portion of the sound signal.
57. The method of any one of claims 51 to 56 wherein deriving the physiological movement signal further comprises detecting one or more of respiration, cardiac and gross movement.
58. The method of claim 51 wherein the signal representative of the portion of the sound signal is an internally generated oscillator signal or a direct path measured sound signal.
59. The method of any one of claims 51 to 53 wherein deriving the physiological movement signal comprises multiplying an oscillator signal with the portion of the sensed reflected sound signal.
60. The method of any one of claims 51 to 59 further comprising filtering the portion of the sensed reflected sound signal with an adaptive filter configured to change a passband of the adaptive filter based on any one of a timing of at least a portion of the produced sound signal and a timing of the portion of the sensed reflected sound signal.
61. The method of any one of claims 51 to 60 further comprising combining the sound signal and audible audio content to produce the sound signal and the audible audio content simultaneously via the speaker.
62. The method of claim 61 further comprising filtering the audible audio content based on frequencies of the sound signal before summing the sound signal and audible audio content.
63. The method of any one of claims 51 to 62 further comprising controlling a variation of a detection scheme of the sound signal depending on detected presence of a subject in the vicinity, wherein the variation comprises changing waveform parameters of at least a portion of the sound signal.
64. The method of any one of claims 51 to 63 further comprising: generating a continuous wave sound signal for motion detection; and upon detection of user motion in the vicinity with the continuous wave sound signal, initiating producing the dual tone frequency modulated continuous wave signal via the speaker.
65. The method of any one of claims 51 to 64 further comprising: generating an ultra-wide band (UWB) sound signal as audible white noise; and detecting user motion with the UWB sound signal.
66. The method of any one of claims 51 to 65 wherein the dual tone frequency modulated continuous wave signal comprises a first sawtooth frequency change overlapped with a second sawtooth frequency change in a repeated waveform.
67. The method of any one of claims 51 to 66 wherein the produced sound signal provides a cosine-like functional time domain shape including zero crossings.
68. The method of any one of claims 51 to 67 further comprising evaluating the derived physiological movement signal to determine one or more physiological parameters.
69. The method of any one of claims 51 to 68 further comprising generating an output based on an evaluation of the derived physiological movement signal.
70. The method of claim 69 wherein the generated output comprises: (a) output data comprising any one or more of: a human presence state; presence or absence of motion in the physiological movement signal; a sleep state; a breathing characteristic; sleep walking; a cardiac characteristic; a gross movement characteristic; a sleep characteristic; an event of sleep disordered breathing; an event of periodic breathing; a respiratory condition; a fatigue condition; a wellness score; a chronic disease condition; a sleepiness condition; and a fatigue condition; or (b) initiating an event based on any of the output data.
71. The method of claim 70 wherein the initiated event includes turning a device, or a process associated with the device, on or off; and/or introducing an adjustment to an operation of a device, or a process associated with the device.
72. The method of claim 71 wherein the device is a respiratory therapy device, and the process is associated with a respiratory therapy device.
73. The method of any one of claims 51 to 72 further comprising evaluating, in the processor, an audible verbal command sensed via the microphone and to provide, in response to the audible verbal command, the output via the speaker.
74. The method of any one of claims 51 to 73 further comprising demodulating at least a portion of the sound signal and the portion of the sensed reflected sound signal to produce quadrature baseband motion signals.
75. The method of claim 74 further comprising processing the quadrature baseband motion signals by one or more filters to isolate a frequency range attributable to one or more of respiration movement, gross body movement and cardiac movement.
76. The method of any one of claims 51 to 75 further comprising bin searching in fast Fourier transform windows derived with the physiological movement signal to select a range associated with user motion.
77. The method of any one of claims 51 to 76 further comprising, in the processor, detecting and recognizing an audible sound of a respiratory pressure therapy device sensed by the microphone.
78. The method of any one of claims 51 to 77 further comprising detecting a cardiac variability and correlating the cardiac variability with respect to a present and absent respiratory therapy.
79. The method of any one of claims 51 to 78 further comprising playing an audible query through the speaker in response to an analysis of the physiological movement signal.
80. The method of any one of claims 51 to 79 further comprising correlating detected movement and therapy compliance.
81. The method of any one of claims 51 to 80 further comprising inferring therapy non-compliance for a user based on a detection of sleep quality of another user.
82. The method of any one of claims 51 to 81 further comprising detecting therapy non-compliance and compliance based on sound detection of operation and lack of operation of a therapy device.
83. The method of any one of claims 51 to 82 further comprising generating output advice based on detected therapy compliance or non-compliance of a user, the generated output advice based on sleep detection from multiple users including the user, the generated output advice to urge the user to maintain compliance.
84. The method of any one of claims 51 to 83 further comprising chirp filtering sound sensed by the microphone to isolate the portion of the sensed reflected sound signal.
85. The method of claim 84 wherein a chirp filter digitally filters with a pass band in a frequency range of the produced sound signal.
86. The method of any one of claims 51 to 85 further selectively changing modulation parameters of production of at least a portion of the sound signal to sense motion in the vicinity of the electronic processing device with different sound signal modulation characteristics.
87. The method of claim 86 wherein the different sound signal modulation characteristics comprise any two or more of continuous wave (CW), frequency modulated continuous wave (FMCW), ultra-wide band (UWB), frequency-shift keying (FSK) and phase-shift keying (PSK).
88. The method of any one of claims 51 to 87 further comprising generating an output by classifying features of the physiological movement signal wherein the features comprise hand-crafted features and machine-learned features.
89. The method of claim 88 wherein the output generated by classifying features of the physiological movement signal comprises one or more of: a sleep stage and/or a sleep state; an event of sleep disordered breathing; and an apnea-hypopnea count.
90. The method of claim 89 further comprising generating therapy usage advice based on the generated apnea-hypopnea count.
91. The method of claim 89 further comprising correlating generated apnea-hypopnea counts with use and non-use of respiratory therapy apparatus.
92. The method of any one of claims 51 to 91 wherein the electronic processing device comprises a smart phone or a smart watch.
93. The method of any one of claims 51 to 92 further comprising in a synchronization process, multiplying a reference template with at least a portion of the sensed reflected sound signal.
94. The method of any one of claims 51 to 93 further comprising in a synchronization process, cross-correlating a sensed reflected signal with a sensed direct path signal.
</claims>
</document>
