<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N21/41,H04N21/4223,H04N21/4363,H04N21/485,H04N21/81
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALDER, CHRISTOPHER
MORETON, RICHARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59996818
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CLIENT DEVICE, COMPANION SCREEN DEVICE, AND OPERATION METHOD THEREFOR
</title>

<abstract>
According to embodiments, a client device, a companion screen device, and an operation method thereof are disclosed. The disclosed client device includes: a communication interface; a display; a memory configured to store one or more instructions; and a processor configured to execute the one or more instructions stored in the memory to control the display to display at least a part of 360-degree video content, identify a companion screen device having a 360-degree control capability to perform 360-degree control on the 360-degree video content, control the communication interface to connect a communication channel with the identified companion screen device, and control the display to control the displaying of the 360-degree video content according to a control command received from the connected companion screen device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A client device comprising: a communication interface; a display; a memory configured to store one or more instructions; and a processor configured to execute the one or more instructions stored in the memory to control the display to display at least a part of 360-degree video content, identify a companion screen device having a 360-degree control capability to perform 360-degree control on the 360-degree video content, control the communication interface to connect a communication channel with the identified companion screen device, and control the display to control the displaying of the 360-degree video content according to a control command received from the connected companion screen device.
2. The client device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to request the identified companion screen device to execute an application that performs a control operation of displaying the 360-degree video content.
3. The client device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to transmit a request signal for discovering the companion screen device, and identify the companion screen device by receiving, from the companion screen device, a signal including information indicating that the companion screen device has the 360-degree control capability.
4. The client device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to receive, from a plurality of companion screen devices, a signal including information indicating that the plurality of companion screen devices have the 360-degree control capability, select at least one of the plurality of companion screen devices, and control the communication interface to connect with the selected at least one companion screen device.
5. The client device of claim 4, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to select at least one of the plurality of companion screen devices based on a user profile associated with the companion screen device.
6. The client device of claim 4, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to select at least one of the plurality of companion screen devices based on a proximity of the client device to each of the companion screen devices.
7. The client device of claim 4, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to select at least one of the plurality of companion screen devices based on a learning algorithm.
8. The client device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to receive device orientation information about an orientation of the companion screen device through the communication channel, adjust a point of view of the displayed 360-degree video content in response to the device orientation information such that the point of view of the displayed 360- degree video content is rotated according to the orientation of the companion screen device, and control the display to display an area of the 360-degree video content corresponding to the adjusted point of view.
9. The client device of claim 8, wherein the device orientation information includes a plurality of orientation values measured by one or more sensors arranged to detect the orientation of the companion screen device, and the processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to smooth the plurality of orientation values so as to acquire smoothed orientation data, and determine a rotation speed of the point of view of the 360-degree video content based on the smoothed orientation data.
10. A companion screen device comprising: a communication interface; a display; a memory configured to store one or more instructions; and a processor configured to execute the one or more instructions stored in the memory to identify a client device having a 360-degree video content-displaying capability, control the communication interface to connect a communication channel with the identified client device, and control the communication interface to transmit, to the client device, a control command for controlling the displaying of the 360-degree video content to be displayed on the connected client device.
11. The companion screen device of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to identify the client device by receiving, from the client device, a signal including information indicating that the client device has the 360-degree video content-displaying capability.
12. The companion screen device of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to detect an orientation of the companion screen device; and transmit device orientation information about the orientation of the companion screen device to the client device via the communication channel such that a point of view of the 360-degree video content displayed on the client device is rotated according to the orientation of the companion screen device.
13. A method of operating a client device, the method comprising: displaying at least a part of 360-degree video content; identifying a companion screen device having a 360-degree control capability to perform 360-degree control on the 360-degree video content; connecting a communication channel with the identified companion screen device; and controlling the displaying of the 360-degree video content according to a control command received from the connected companion screen device.
14. A method of operating a companion screen device, the method comprising: identifying a client device having a 360-degree video content-displaying capability; connecting a communication channel with the identified client device; and transmitting, to the client device, a control command for controlling the displaying of the 360-degree video content to be displayed on the connected client device.
15. A computer program product comprising a computer-readable recording medium having recorded thereon one or more programs for performing a method of operating a client device, the method comprising: displaying at least a part of 360-degree video content; identifying a companion screen device having a 360-degree control capability to perform 360-degree control on the 360-degree video content; connecting a communication channel with the identified companion screen device; and controlling the displaying of the 360-degree video content according to a control command received from the connected companion screen device.
</claims>
</document>
