<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/29,G06N20/10,G16H10/60,G16H40/20,H04L9/06,H04L9/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
YOUNGBLOOD IP HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
YOUNGBLOOD, TARA
YOUNGBLOOD, TODD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71516395
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HEALTH DATA EXCHANGE PLATFORM
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention provides systems and methods for exchanging health data. A health data exchange platform includes health data from a plurality of data sources. The health data exchange platform preferably utilizes blockchain technology. The health data exchange platform includes both buyers of health data and suppliers of health data. The health data exchange platform includes a phenotype network system including at least one remote server, a user profile database, a report database, a permissions database, a geographic incident database, and a medical community database.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for exchanging health data including a phenotype network comprising: at least one user device and at least one remote server in network communication with a health data exchange platform; wherein the at least one remote server includes a phenotype database, a report database, a recommendation database, and a permissions database; wherein the report database includes health data; wherein the at least one user device is operable to authorize sharing of selected health data with a third-party device via a graphical user interface (GUI), thereby creating selected permissible data; wherein the health data exchange platform is operable to exchange the selected permissible data with the third-party device; wherein the phenotype network includes a plurality of user nodes, a plurality of phenotype or concept nodes, and a plurality of edges connecting the plurality of user nodes and/or the phenotype or concept nodes; and wherein the phenotype network is operable to automatically suggest a connection with another user, at least one phenotype, at least one medical entity, and/or at least one health status.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one remote server includes a plurality of distributed servers.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the health data exchange platform includes a distributed ledger, and wherein the health data exchange platform uses a private key and a public key to encrypt data stored on the distributed ledger.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the permissions database stores information relating to what data each user has authorized to release to other entities.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the phenotype database further includes a user profile database, and wherein the user profile database includes purchase history, social media history, web browsing history, biodata, sleep data, stress information, medications, supplements, disease profile, genotypes, workout information, diet information, social behaviors, emotional data, cognitive pursuits, data from third-party health applications, a frequency of interaction by the user with the phenotype network, hobbies, group memberships, and/or interests.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the health data includes medical reports, sleep logs, wearable sensor data, blood test results, and/or genetic testing data.
7. The system of claim 1, further including a geographic database, wherein the geographic database includes information regarding known health issues by neighborhood, city, county, state, country, region, and/or zip code.
8. The system of claim 1, further including a medical community database, wherein the medical community database includes research studies, clinical trials, and/or disease information.
9. The system of claim 1, further including a plurality of prediction modules to determine an unknown, incomplete, and/or inaccurate user attribute.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the unknown, incomplete, and/or inaccurate user attribute is determined using at least one decision tree, a random forest classifier, a binary classifier, a multiclass classifier, a linear classifier, a Naïve Bayesian classifier, a neural network, a Hidden Markov model, or a support vector machine.
11. The system of claim 1, further including a candidate connection generator, a conversion prediction engine, a value computation engine, an expected value scoring engine, and expected value rankings, and wherein the candidate connection generator, the conversion prediction engine, the value computation engine, the expected value scoring engine, and the expected value rankings are operable to automatically suggest the connection.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the phenotype network system is operable to dynamically make recommendations based on social interactions, location data, biometric data, a digital footprint, and/or usage of the at least one user device.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the health data exchange platform includes an action log, and wherein the action log records a timestamp of when an action occurred, an identification of a user, an action type, an identification of where the action was directed, and content associated with the action.
14. A system for exchanging health data including a phenotype network comprising: at least one user device and at least one remote server in network communication with a health data exchange platform; wherein the at least one remote server includes a phenotype database, a report database, a recommendation database, and a permissions database; wherein the report database includes health data; wherein the at least one user device is operable to authorize sharing of selected health data with a third-party device via a graphical user interface (GUI), thereby creating selected permissible data; wherein the health data exchange platform is operable to exchange the selected permissible data with the third-party device; wherein the phenotype network includes a plurality of user nodes, a plurality of phenotype or concept nodes, and a plurality of edges connecting the plurality of user nodes and/or the phenotype or concept nodes; wherein the phenotype network is operable to automatically suggest a connection with another user, at least one phenotype, at least one medical entity, and/or at least one health status; wherein the at least one remote server includes a plurality of distributed servers; wherein the health data exchange platform includes a distributed ledger; and wherein the health data exchange platform uses a public key and a private key to encrypt data stored on the distributed ledger.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the health data exchange platform is operable to execute a smart contract granting the third-party device access to the selected permissible data.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the health data exchange platform is operable to process a micropayment between the at least one user device and the third-party device.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the health data is stored off-chain.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the health data exchange platform is built on an Ethereum blockchain or a Bitcoin blockchain.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein the permissions database stores links to one or more locations where the selected permissible data is stored on the distributed ledger.
20. A system for exchanging health data including a phenotype network comprising: at least one user device and at least one remote server in network communication with a health data exchange platform; wherein the at least one remote server includes a phenotype database, a report database, a recommendation database, and a permissions database; wherein the report database includes health data; wherein the at least one user device is operable to authorize sharing of selected health data with a third-party device via a graphical user interface (GUI), thereby creating selected permissible data; wherein the health data exchange platform is operable to exchange the selected permissible data with the third-party device; wherein the health data exchange platform is operable to process a micropayment between the at least one user device and the third-party device; wherein the phenotype network includes a plurality of user nodes, a plurality of phenotype or concept nodes, and a plurality of edges connecting the plurality of user nodes and/or the phenotype or concept nodes; wherein the phenotype network is operable to automatically suggest a connection with another user, at least one phenotype, at least one medical entity, and/or at least one health status; wherein the at least one remote server includes a plurality of distributed servers; wherein the health data exchange platform includes a distributed ledger; wherein the health data exchange platform uses a public key and a private key to encrypt data stored on the distributed ledger; and wherein the permissions database stores links to one or more locations where the selected permissible data is stored on the distributed ledger.
</claims>
</document>
