<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/31,H04L29/06,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, XIN
ZHU, TONG
Tian, Yiteng
Mei, Jue
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73550447
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IDENTITY VERIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure relates to identity verification. In one aspect, a method includes obtaining verification information during a user application session of a user with an application component subsequent to a verification triggering request to perform identity verification on the user. A determination is made whether the verification information satisfies a first identity verification-free condition. When the verification information satisfies the first identity verification-free condition, an identity verification-free operation that does not include identity verification of the user is performed. When the verification information fails to satisfy the first identity verification-free condition, an identity verification process is performed to verify an identity of the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: obtaining verification information during a user session of a user with an application subsequent to a verification triggering request to perform identity verification on the user, wherein the verification information comprises (i) a success rate of previous identity verification processes performed to verify the identity of the user during the user session, (ii) a degree of match between user identity information provided by the user for at least one of the previous identity verification processes and previously stored user identity information for the user, or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii); determining whether the verification information satisfies a first identity verification-free condition; when the verification information satisfies the first identity verification-free condition, performing an identity verification-free operation that does not include an additional identity verification process to verify the identity of the user, or when the verification information fails to satisfy the first identity verification-free condition, performing the additional identity verification process to verify the identity of the user.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the verification information further comprises (iv) identity verification record specifying one or more previous identity verifications performed for the user during the user session, environment information comprising hardware device information of an operating device used by the user during the user session or location information of the operating device, (vi) user operation behavior sequence specifying a sequence of operations performed by the user while using the application during the user session, or any combination of (iv), (v), and (vi).
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the verification information satisfies a first identity verification-free condition comprises at least one of: determining that the verification information does not satisfy a not-the-same-person operation condition in an identity verification rule; or determining that the verification information does not satisfy a high risk operation condition in the identity verification rule.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising determining that at least one identity verification process has been previously performed for the user during the user session in response to the verification triggering request, wherein the verification information is obtained in response to determining that at least one identity verification process has been performed for the user during the user session.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the verification information satisfies the first identity verification-free condition comprises providing the verification information as input to a feasibility prediction model and receiving, as an output of the feasibility prediction model, a result indicating whether the verification information satisfies the first identity verification-free condition.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the feasibility prediction model comprises a long short-term memory (LSTM) model algorithm, a Bayesian model algorithm, or a combination of the long short-term memory (LSTM) model algorithm and the Bayesian model algorithm.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting an operation having at least a specified security level during the user session of the user with the application; and generating the verification triggering request in response to detecting that the operation has at least the specified security level.
8. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions executable by a computer system to perform operations comprising: obtaining verification information during a user session of a user with an application subsequent to a verification triggering request to perform identity verification on the user, wherein the verification information comprises (i) a success rate of previous identity verification processes performed to verify the identity of the user during the user session, (ii) a degree of match between user identity information provided by the user for at least one of the previous identity verification processes and previously stored user identity information for the user, or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii); determining whether the verification information satisfies a first identity verification-free condition; when the verification information satisfies the first identity verification-free condition, performing an identity verification-free operation that does not include an additional identity verification process to verify the identity of the user, or when the verification information fails to satisfy the first identity verification-free condition, performing the additional identity verification process to verify the identity of the user.
9. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the verification information further comprises (iv) identity verification record specifying one or more previous identity verifications performed for the user during the user session, environment information comprising hardware device information of an operating device used by the user during the user session or location information of the operating device, (vi) user operation behavior sequence specifying a sequence of operations performed by the user while using the application during the user session, or any combination of (iv), (v), and (vi).
10. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein determining whether the verification information satisfies a first identity verification-free condition comprises at least one of: determining that the verification information does not satisfy a not-the-same-person operation condition in an identity verification rule; or determining that the verification information does not satisfy a high risk operation condition in the identity verification rule.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the operations comprise determining that at least one identity verification process has been previously performed for the user during the user session in response to the verification triggering request, wherein the verification information is obtained in response to determining that at least one identify verification process has been performed for the user during the user session.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein determining whether the verification information satisfies the first identity verification-free condition comprises providing the verification information as input to a feasibility prediction model and receiving, as an output of the feasibility prediction model, a result indicating whether the verification information satisfies the first identity verification-free condition.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the feasibility prediction model comprises a long short-term memory (LSTM) model algorithm, a Bayesian model algorithm, or a combination of the long short-term memory (LSTM) model algorithm and the Bayesian model algorithm.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the operations comprise: detecting an operation having at least a specified security level during the user session of the user with the application; and generating the verification triggering request in response to detecting that the operation has at least the specified security level.
15. A computer-implemented system, comprising: one or more computers; and one or more computer memory devices interoperably coupled with the one or more computers and having tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable media storing one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, perform one or more operations comprising: obtaining verification information during a user session of a user with an application subsequent to a verification triggering request to perform identity verification on the user, wherein the verification information comprises (i) a success rate of previous identity verification processes performed to verify the identity of the user during the user session, (ii) a degree of match between user identity information provided by the user for at least one of the previous identity verification processes and previously stored user identity information for the user, or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii); determining whether the verification information satisfies a first identity verification-free condition; when the verification information satisfies the first identity verification-free condition, performing an identity verification-free operation that does not include an additional identity verification process to verify the identity of the user, or when the verification information fails to satisfy the first identity verification-free condition, performing the additional identity verification process to verify the identity of the user.
16. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, wherein the verification information further comprises (iv) identity verification record specifying one or more previous identity verifications performed for the user during the user session, environment information comprising hardware device information of an operating device used by the user during the user session or location information of the operating device, (vi) user operation behavior sequence specifying a sequence of operations performed by the user while using the application during the user session, or any combination of (iv), (v), and (vi).
17. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, wherein determining whether the verification information satisfies a first identity verification-free condition comprises at least one of: determining that the verification information does not satisfy a not-the-same-person operation condition in an identity verification rule; or determining that the verification information does not satisfy a high risk operation condition in the identity verification rule.
18. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, wherein the operations comprise determining that at least one identity verification process has been previously performed for the user during the user session in response to the verification triggering request, wherein the verification information is obtained in response to determining that at least one identify verification process has been performed for the user during the user session.
19. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, wherein determining whether the verification information satisfies the first identity verification-free condition comprises providing the verification information as input to a feasibility prediction model and receiving, as an output of the feasibility prediction model, a result indicating whether the verification information satisfies the first identity verification-free condition.
20. The computer-implemented system of claim 19, wherein the feasibility prediction model comprises a long short-term memory (LSTM) model algorithm, a Bayesian model algorithm, or a combination of the long short-term memory (LSTM) model algorithm and the Bayesian model algorithm.
21. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, wherein the operations comprise: detecting an operation having at least a specified security level during the user session of the user with the application; and generating the verification triggering request in response to detecting that the operation has at least the specified security level.
</claims>
</document>
