<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/908,G06F16/9535,G06F16/9538,G06F3/0485,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON
</assignee>

<inventors>
ISHIKURA, TAKESHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72515994
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INFORMATION PROCESSING APPARATUS, METHOD, AND A NON-TRANSITORY COMPUTER-READABLE STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
In an information processing apparatus having a platform supporting estimation processing using a model that has learned a relationship between data associated with user word and action and information to be used for search processing, in a case where the estimation processing is executed by using input data based on user input performed before usage of an application and the model, and an output estimation result is recorded, the application acquires the estimation result from the platform, executes search processing using information included in the estimation result, and provides the information using the result.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing apparatus having a platform supporting estimation processing using a model that has learned a relationship between data associated with user word and action and information to be used for search processing, the information processing apparatus comprising: at least one memory storing instructions related to an application; and at least one processor, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the information processing apparatus to: in a case where the estimation processing is executed by using information included in an operation history based on at least one of user input performed on the information processing apparatus in the platform and the user input performed on a device communicable with the information processing apparatus via a network as input data, and an estimation result based on executed the estimation processing is recorded, acquire the estimation result from the platform; execute search processing using information included in the acquired estimation result; and provide information using a result of the search processing, wherein the application is permitted to use a result of the estimation processing by a user.
2. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the platform is provided as an operating system.
3. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the model is installed in the information processing apparatus to be used by the platform.
4. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the information processing apparatus to request the platform for the estimation result, and wherein in response to the request, the application acquires the estimation result.
5. The information processing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the platform is requested for the estimation result periodically.
6. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the estimation result is acquired from the platform at a time of activating the application.
7. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the information processing apparatus to transmit feedback including the estimation result to the platform in a case where a user operation associated with the result of the search processing using the information included in the estimation result is accepted by the application.
8. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the search processing using the information included in the estimation result is executed on a search target associated with a predetermined operation in a case where the predetermined operation performed by a user is detected, and wherein the contents to be provided are updated by using a result of the search processing.
9. The information processing apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the predetermined operation includes a scrolling operation to be achieved by a flick operation, and display is performed by using the result of the search processing as a scroll destination.
10. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the device communicable via the network is at least any one of an audio assistant terminal, a digital home appliance, and an in-vehicle terminal.
11. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the user input includes audio input.
12. A method for an application installed in an information processing apparatus having a platform supporting estimation processing using a model that has learned a relationship between data associated with user word and action and information to be used for search processing, the method comprising: in a case where the estimation processing is executed by using information included in an operation history based on at least one of user input performed on the information processing apparatus in the platform and the user input performed on a device communicable with the information processing apparatus via a network as input data, and an estimation result based on the executed estimation processing is recorded, acquiring the estimation result from the platform; executing search processing using information included in the acquired estimation result; and providing information using a result of the search processing, wherein the application is permitted to use a result of the estimation processing by a user.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the platform is provided as an operating system.
14. The method according to claim 12, wherein the model is installed in the information processing apparatus to be used by the platform.
15. The method according to claim 12, further comprising: requesting the platform for the estimation result; and acquiring the estimation result in response to the request.
16. The method according to claim 15, wherein the platform is requested for the estimation result periodically.
17. The method according to claim 12, wherein the estimation result is acquired from the platform at a time of activating the application.
18. The method according to claim 12, further comprising transmitting feedback including the estimation result to the platform in a case where a user operation associated with the result of the search processing using information included in the estimation result is accepted.
19. The method according to claim 12, wherein the search processing using the information included in the estimation result is executed on a search target associated with a predetermined operation in a case where the predetermined operation performed by the user is detected, and wherein contents to be provided are updated by using a result of the search processing.
20. The method according to claim 19, wherein the predetermined operation includes a scrolling operation to be achieved by a flick operation, and display is performed by using the result of the search processing as a scroll destination.
21. The method according to claim 12, wherein the device communicable via the network includes an audio assistant terminal, a digital home appliance, and an in-vehicle terminal.
22. The method according to claim 12, wherein the user input includes audio input.
23. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer executable instructions stored thereon, wherein the instructions are related to an application and the instructions, when executed by one or more processors of an information processing apparatus having a platform supporting estimation processing using a model that has learned a relationship between data associated with user word and action and information to be used for search processing, cause the information processing apparatus to: in a case where the estimation processing is executed by using information included in an operation history based on at least one of user input performed on the information processing apparatus in the platform and the user input performed on a device communicable with the information processing apparatus via a network as input data, and an estimation result based on the executed estimation processing is recorded, acquire the estimation result from the platform; execute search processing using information included in the acquired estimation result; and provide information using a result of the search processing, wherein the application is permitted to use a result of the estimation processing by a user.
</claims>
</document>
