<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BRIGHTERION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ADJAOUTE AKLI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68384029
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SECURING INTERNET-OF-THINGS WITH SMART-AGENT TECHNOLOGY
</title>

<abstract>
An Internet-of-things (IoT) mechanizes, computerizes, automates, instruments, includes, and connects a broadly dispersed and extensively diverse universe of unrelated "things" to the Internet, e.g., credit cards, home appliances, industrial machinery, airplanes, cars, municipal water pumps, mobile devices, rain gauges, etc. Each thing is assigned a resident local "smart agent". Or an entity, manifesting remotely only as transaction records and reports, is assigned a virtual smart agent in a network server. These data structures follow, track, record, chart, monitor, characterize, describe, render, and otherwise provide a label and handle on independent things and entities.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An Internet-of-Things electronic device comprising: a computer processor; a communication device configured for external communication; and non-transitory computer-readable computer memory including computer-executable instructions stored thereon, wherein when executed by the computer processor the computer-readable instructions cause the computer processor to— receive, via the communication device, a call to a job smart agent residing in the computer-readable computer memory, the job smart agent comprising a behavior profile and a plurality of attributes, the plurality of attributes including a plurality of calls respectively to a plurality of task smart agents and a plurality of clock cycles respectively corresponding to the plurality of task smart agents, issue the plurality of calls to the plurality of task smart agents, initiate a cycle clock for each of the plurality of clock cycles in correspondence with issuance of the plurality of calls, compare performance of the job smart agent in response to the call to the job smart agent against the behavior profile to determine a deviation from acceptable performance, transmit an objection based on the deviation, via the communication device, to a remote server.
2. The Internet-of-Things electronic device of claim 1, wherein the computer processor comprises a finite state machine.
3. The Internet-of-Things electronic device of claim 1, further comprising a sensor, wherein determination of the deviation includes comparison of data from the sensor against the behavior profile.
4. The Internet-of-Things electronic device of claim 1, wherein determination of the deviation includes determining that a time out has occurred on one or more of the plurality of clock cycles.
5. The Internet-of-Things electronic device of claim 4, wherein the plurality of task smart agents reside in memory of one or more external devices, and the plurality of calls to the plurality of task smart agents are issued via the communication device to the one more external devices.
6. The Internet-of-Things electronic device of claim 1, wherein, when executed by the computer processor, the computer-readable instructions further cause the computer processor to update the behavior profile based on the objection.
7. The Internet-of-Things electronic device of claim 6, wherein— the behavior profile comprises a plurality of behavioral attributes describing normal operation at least in part by defining corresponding thresholds for normal operation, the comparison of performance of the job smart agent against the behavioral profile includes incrementally changing a count based on an attribute-by-attribute comparison against the thresholds for normal operation, the behavior profile is updated at least in part by sensitizing a threshold of the corresponding thresholds based on the objection.
8. A computer-implemented method for tracking performance of an Internet-of-Things electronic device, comprising, via a computer processor of the electronic device: receiving a call to a job smart agent, the job smart agent comprising a behavior profile and a plurality of attributes, the plurality of attributes including a plurality of calls respectively to a plurality of task smart agents and a plurality of clock cycles respectively corresponding to the plurality of task smart agents; issuing the plurality of calls to the plurality of task smart agents: initiating a cycle clock for each of the plurality of clock cycles in correspondence with issuance of the plurality of calls; comparing performance of the job smart agent in response to the call to the job smart agent against the behavior profile to determine a deviation from acceptable performance; and transmitting an objection based on the deviation to a remote server.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the computer processor comprises a finite state machine.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein determination of the deviation includes comparison of data from a sensor of the electronic device against the behavior profile.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein determination of the deviation includes determining that a time out has occurred on one or more of the plurality of clock cycles.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the plurality of task smart agents reside in memory of one or more external devices, and the plurality of calls to the plurality of task smart agents are issued via a communication device to the one more external devices.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising updating the behavior profile based on the objection.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein— the behavior profile comprises a plurality of behavioral attributes describing normal operation at least in part by defining corresponding thresholds for normal operation, the comparison of performance of the job smart agent against the behavioral profile includes incrementally changing a count based on an attribute-by-attribute comparison against the thresholds for normal operation, the behavior profile is updated at least in part by sensitizing a threshold of the corresponding thresholds based on the objection.
15. Non-transitory computer-readable storage media having computer-executable instructions for tracking performance of an Internet-of-Things electronic device, wherein when executed by a computer processor of the electronic device the computer-readable instructions cause the computer processor to: receive a call to a job smart agent, the job smart agent comprising a behavior profile and a plurality of attributes, the plurality of attributes including a plurality of calls respectively to a plurality of task smart agents and a plurality of clock cycles respectively corresponding to the plurality of task smart agents; issue the plurality of calls to the plurality of task smart agents; initiate a cycle clock for each of the plurality of clock cycles in correspondence with issuance of the plurality of calls; compare performance of the job smart agent in response to the call to the job smart agent against the behavior profile to determine a deviation from acceptable performance; and transmit an objection based on the deviation to a remote server.
16. The computer-readable storage media of claim 15, wherein the computer processor comprises a finite state machine.
17. The computer-readable storage media of claim 15, wherein determination of the deviation includes comparison of data from a sensor of the electronic device against the behavior profile.
18. The computer-readable storage media of claim 15, wherein determination of the deviation includes determining that a time out has occurred on one or more of the plurality of clock cycles.
19. The computer-readable storage media of claim 15, wherein when executed by the computer processor the computer-readable instructions further cause the computer processor to update the behavior profile based on the objection.
20. The computer-readable storage media of claim 19, wherein— the behavior profile comprises a plurality of behavioral attributes describing normal operation at least in part by defining corresponding thresholds for normal operation, the comparison of performance of the job smart agent against the behavioral profile includes incrementally changing a count based on an attribute-by-attribute comparison against the thresholds for normal operation, the behavior profile is updated at least in part by sensitizing a threshold of the corresponding thresholds based on the objection.
</claims>
</document>
