<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S19/13,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06T7/20,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
TANG, QIAOCHU
DAGLEY, GEOFFREY
PRICE, MICAH
WYLIE, STEPHEN MICHAEL
HOOVER, JASON RICHARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65721899
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ASSET TRACKING SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed technology includes image-based systems and methods for object tracking within an asset area. Some exemplary methods include receiving an indication of a first object entering an asset area and receiving data indicative of a plurality of captured images. The methods also include performing, by at least one processor, object classification of the first object based on one or more of the plurality of captured images. The methods further include determining a first object location of the first object based at least in part on the object classification, and outputting an indication of the first object location.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image-based system for object tracking within an asset area, comprising: one or more image capture devices positioned to view respective portions of the asset area; at least one processor in communication with the one or more image capture devices; a memory in communication with the at least one processor and storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, are configured to cause the at least one processor to: receive, from the one or more image capture devices, an indication of a first object entering the asset area; receive, from at least one of the one or more image capture devices, data indicative of a plurality of captured images; classify, responsive to the indication of a first object entering the asset area, the first object as having a first classification of a plurality of classifications using one or more of the plurality of captured images; track, based on the first classification, a first object location of the first object; and output, based on the first classification, an indication of the first object location.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to track the first object location in the respective portions of the asset area by: processing one or more captured images received from a first image capture device of the one or more image capture devices when the first object is in a first portion of the asset area; and processing one or more captured images received from a second image capture device of the one or more image capture devices when the first object is in a second portion of the asset area, wherein the first portion of the asset area and the second portion of the asset area are non-overlapping.
3. The system of claim 1 further comprising a GPS detector coupled with at least one of the one or more image capture devices, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to: receive a GPS coordinate from the GPS detector; determine a corresponding GPS coordinate of the first object based on the tracked first object location; and output a corresponding GPS coordinate as the output indication of the first object location.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to: receive a GPS coordinate; determine a corresponding GPS coordinate of the first object based on the tracked first object location; and output a corresponding GPS coordinate as the output indication of the first object location.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first object is a vehicle and the asset area is a car dealership lot.
6. The system of claim 1 further comprising a registration station configured to associate identification information with a new object entering the asset area, wherein the registration station comprises one or more of an RFID detector, a motion detector, an optical interrupt detector, a barcode reader, and a two-dimensional barcode (QR-code) reader.
7. The system of claim 1 further comprising an ingress and an egress detector, wherein one or more of the egress detector and the ingress detector comprise one or more of an RFID detector, a motion detector, an optical interrupt detector, a barcode reader, and a two-dimensional barcode (QR-code) reader.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the egress detector and the ingress detector are co-located.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein one or more of the ingress detector, the egress detector, the one or more image capture devices, the at least one processor, and the memory are retrofitted to the system.
10. The system of claim 1 further comprising a security system configured to record a series of images based on receiving the indication of a first object entering the asset area.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to determine one or more conditions of the first object at a first time and at a second time.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein classifying the first object further comprises: accumulating a plurality of classification scores for the first object to determine an accumulated score; and outputting the first classification of the first object responsive to one or more of a timeout and the accumulated score exceeding a predetermined threshold;
13. The system of claim 12 further comprising a trained neural network processing engine, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to modify one or more of the plurality of classification scores.
14. A method comprising: receiving, from one or more image capture devices positioned to view an asset area, an indication of a first object entering the asset area; receiving, from the one or more image capture devices, data indicative of a plurality of captured images; performing, by at least one processor, object classification of the first object based on at least one of the plurality of captured images; tracking the first object location based on the plurality of captured images; determining a first object location of the first object based on the tracking; and outputting an indication of the first object location and the object classification of the first object.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising tracking the first object location in respective portions of the asset area by: processing image frames received from a first image capture device of the one or more image capture devices when the first object is in a first portion of the asset area; and processing image frames received from a second image capture device of the one or more image capture devices when the first object is in a second portion of the asset area, wherein the first portion of the asset area and the second portion of the asset area differ.
16. The method of claim 14, further comprising: receiving, at the at least one processor, a GPS coordinate; determining a corresponding GPS coordinate of the first object based on the tracked first object location; and outputting a corresponding GPS coordinate as the output indication of the first object location.
17. The method of claim 14, further comprising associating, at a registration point, identification information with the first object responsive to the ingress indication.
18. The method of claim 14, further comprising determining one or more classification scores using a trained neural network processing engine.
19. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions for use with an image-based object tracking system, wherein the instructions are configured to cause the system to perform a method comprising: receiving, from one or more image capture devices positioned to view an asset area, an indication of a first object entering the asset area; receiving, from the one or more image capture devices, data indicative of a plurality of captured images; performing, by at least one processor, object classification of the first object based on at least one of the plurality of captured images; tracking the first object location based on the plurality of captured images; determining a first object location of the first object based on the tracking; and outputting an indication of the first object location and the object classification of the first object.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 19, further comprising: receiving, at the at least one processor, a GPS coordinate; determining a corresponding GPS coordinate of the first object based on the tracking of the first object location; and outputting a corresponding GPS coordinate as the output indication of the first object location.
</claims>
</document>
