<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S19/51,G06Q20/10,G06Q20/12,G06Q20/22,G06Q20/32,G06Q20/36,G06Q30/02,G06Q40/02,G06Q50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING DIDI INFINITY TECHNOLOGY AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GE, Rui
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69592365
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DIGITAL WALLET
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for providing digital wallet comprises obtaining, from a computing device, information of a transportation, the information comprising: a starting time of the transportation, an ending time of the transportation, an origin of the transportation, and/or a destination of the transportation; performing: a comparison of the starting time with a first time range, a comparison of the ending time with a second time range, a comparison of the origin with an origin location range, and/or a comparison of the destination with a destination location range; and in response to determining: the starting time is within the first time range, the ending time is within the second time range, the origin is within the origin location range, and/or the destination is within the destination location range, allowing the computing device to use at least a portion of a credit from a digital wallet account for defraying the transportation's cost.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for providing digital wallet, comprising: obtaining, from a computing device, information of a transportation, the information including at least one of; a starting time of the transportation, an ending time of the transportation, an origin of the transportation, or a destination of the transportation; performing at least one of a comparison of the starting time with a first time range, a comparison of the ending time with a second time range, a comparison of the origin with an origin location range, or a comparison of the destination with a destination location range; and in response to determining at least one of; the starting time is within the first time range, the ending time is within the second time range, the origin is within the origin location range, or the destination is within the destination location range, allowing the computing device to use at least a portion of a credit from a digital wallet account for defraying the transportation's cost.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the obtaining the origin of the transportation includes: obtaining a Global Positioning System (GPS) position of the computing device corresponding to a pick-up location of the transportation.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the obtaining the destination of the transportation includes: obtaining a GPS location of another computing device associated with a vehicle providing the transportation corresponding to a drop-off location of the transportation.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a recipient of the portion of the credit; and in response to determining that the recipient is not associated with a provider of the transportation, preventing the computing device from using the portion of the credit.
5. The method of claim 1, before the obtaining, from the computing device, the information of the transportation, further comprising: issuing the credit from a master account to the digital wallet account accessible from the computing device, wherein the credit is associated with at least one of the first time range, the second time range, the origin location range, or the destination location range.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein: the credit is not usable beyond an effective time period; and the method further comprises: when the effective time period expires, returning a remaining amount of the credit in the digital wallet account to the master account.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein: the master account is associated with an enterprise entity; and the first time range, the second time range, the origin location range, and the destination location range are configured by the enterprise entity.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein: the digital wallet account and a personal payment account are accessible through the computing device; and allowing the computing device to use the at least a portion of the credit for defraying the transportation's cost comprises providing options through the computing device to pay for the transportation's cost from at least one of the digital wallet account or the personal payment account.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the providing options through the computing device to pay for the transportation's cost from at least one of the digital wallet account or the personal payment account comprises: providing an option for paying a first portion of the transportation's cost from the digital wallet account and a second portion of the transportation's cost from the personal payment account.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein: in response to determining that a remaining amount of the credit in the digital wallet account is less than the transportation's cost, drawing the remaining amount to pay for a part of the transportation's cost and drawing a balance of the transportation's cost from the personal payment account.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the allowing the computing device to use the at least a portion of the credit for defraying the transportation's cost includes: allowing the computing device to defray the transportation's cost with the credit for no more than a threshold.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein: the transportation is provided by a vehicle associated with another computing device, wherein a driver account is accessible from the another computing device; and the method further comprises depositing a refund from the driver account for the transportation into the digital wallet account.
13. A digital wallet system, comprising a processor and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform a method, the method comprising: obtaining, from a computing device, information of a transportation, the information including at least one of; a starting time of the transportation, an ending time of the transportation, an origin of the transportation, or a destination of the transportation; performing at least one of a comparison of the starting time with a first time range, a comparison of the ending time with a second time range, a comparison of the origin with an origin location range, or a comparison of the destination with a destination location range; and in response to determining at least one of; the starting time is within the first time range, the ending time is within the second time range, the origin is within the origin location range, or the destination is within the destination location range, allowing the computing device to use at least a portion of a credit from a digital wallet account for defraying the transportation's cost.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the obtaining the origin of the transportation includes: obtaining a Global Positioning System (GPS) position of the computing device corresponding to a pick-up location of the transportation.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the obtaining the destination of the transportation includes: obtaining a GPS location of another computing device associated with a vehicle providing the transportation corresponding to a drop-off location of the transportation.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein before the obtaining, from the computing device, the information of the transportation, the method further comprises: issuing the credit from a master account to the digital wallet account accessible from the computing device, wherein the credit is associated with at least one of; the first time range, the second time range, the origin location range, or the destination location range.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein: the digital wallet account and a personal payment account are accessible through the computing device; and allowing the computing device to use the at least a portion of the credit for defraying the transportation's cost comprises providing options through the computing device to pay for the transportation's cost from at least one of the digital wallet account or the personal payment account.
18. A computer-implemented method for providing digital wallet, comprising: transmitting, by a computing device, information of a transportation to a server, the information including at least one of a starting time of the transportation, an ending time of the transportation, an origin of the transportation, or a destination of the transportation, to cause the server to determine at least one of; the starting time is within the first time range, the ending time is within the second time range, the origin is within the origin location range, or the destination is within the destination location range; and in response to receiving an allowance from the server, using at least a portion of a credit from a digital wallet account for defraying the transportation's cost.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the transmitting the origin of the transportation includes: transmitting a Global Positioning System (GPS) position of the computing device corresponding to a pick-up location of the transportation.
20. The method of claim 18, further comprising: displaying an option for paying a first portion of the transportation's cost from the digital wallet account and a second portion of the transportation's cost from a personal payment account.
</claims>
</document>
