<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W60/00,G08G1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HONDA MOTOR COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAI XUE
SAIGUSA, SHIGENOBU
KELKAR, PARITOSH
RAJAB, SAMER
Al-Nadawi, Yasir Khudhair
Nourkhiz Mahjoub, Hossein
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606311
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SWARM ACTION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for a cooperative autonomy framework are described. According to one embodiment, a cooperative autonomy framework includes a goal module, a target module, a negotiation module, and a perception module. The goal module determines a cooperation goal. The target module identifies a vehicle associated with the cooperation goal and sends a swarm request to the vehicle to join a swarm. The negotiation module receives a swarm acceptance from the vehicle. The perception module determines a cooperative action for the vehicle relative to the swarm.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A cooperative autonomy framework comprising a goal module configured to determine a cooperation goal; a target module configured to identify a vehicle associated with the cooperation goal and send a swarm request to the vehicle to join a swarm; a negotiation module configured to receive a swarm acceptance from the vehicle; and a perception module configured to determine a cooperative action for the vehicle relative to the swarm.
2. The cooperative autonomy framework of claim 1, wherein the negotiation module is further configured to transmit at least one cooperating parameter to the swarm from the vehicle.
3. The cooperative autonomy framework of claim 2, wherein the at least one cooperating parameter defines a behavioral aspect of the swarm.
4. The cooperative autonomy framework of claim 1, wherein the perception module is further configured to initiate a swarm handoff from the vehicle to the swarm.
5. The cooperative autonomy framework of claim 1, wherein the goal module further comprises: a sensor fusion module configured to receive vehicle sensor data from the vehicle; a prediction module configured to generate a prediction model including a set of possible future events based on prediction parameters and the vehicle sensor data; and a decision module configured to: determine whether at least one possible future event of the set of possible future events does not satisfy a threshold compliance value; in response to each of the possible future events of the set of possible future events satisfies the threshold compliance value, determine that the vehicle would benefit from cooperation in the swarm based on a threshold benefit; and trigger swarm creation of the swarm.
6. The cooperative autonomy framework of claim 5, further comprising a personalization module configured to identify a set of personalization parameters, wherein the threshold benefit is based on the set of personalization parameters.
7. The cooperative autonomy framework of claim 1, wherein the target module further includes a positioning module configured to determine a cooperative position for the vehicle relative to the swarm based on the swarm request.
8. A computer-implemented method for utilizing a cooperative autonomy framework, the computer-implemented method comprising determining a cooperation goal; identifying a vehicle associated with the cooperation goal and send a swarm request to the vehicle to join a swarm; receiving a swarm acceptance from the vehicle; and determining a cooperative action for the vehicle relative to the swarm.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising transmitting at least one cooperating parameter to the swarm from the vehicle.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the at least one cooperating parameter defines a behavioral aspect of the swarm.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the cooperative action is a swarm handoff from the vehicle to the swarm.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, the method further comprising: receiving vehicle sensor data from the vehicle; generating a prediction model including a set of possible future events based on prediction parameters and the vehicle sensor data; and determining whether at least one possible future event of the set of possible future events does not satisfy a threshold compliance value; in response to each of the possible future events of the set of possible future events satisfies the threshold compliance value, determining that the vehicle would benefit from cooperation in the swarm based on a threshold benefit; and triggering swarm creation of the swarm.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, further comprising identifying a set of personalization parameters, wherein the threshold benefit is based on the set of personalization parameters.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising determining a cooperative position for the vehicle relative to the swarm based on the swarm request.
15. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer, which includes a processor perform a method, the method comprising: determining a cooperation goal; identifying a vehicle associated with the cooperation goal and send a swarm request to the vehicle to join a swarm; receiving a swarm acceptance from the vehicle; and determining a cooperative action for the vehicle relative to the swarm.
16. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 15, further comprising transmitting at least one cooperating parameter to the swarm from the vehicle.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the at least one cooperating parameter defines a behavioral aspect of the swarm.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the cooperative action is a swarm handoff from the vehicle to the swarm.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 15, further comprising: receiving vehicle sensor data from the vehicle; generating a prediction model including a set of possible future events based on prediction parameters and the vehicle sensor data; and determining whether at least one possible future event of the set of possible future events does not satisfy a threshold compliance value; in response to each of the possible future events of the set of possible future events satisfies the threshold compliance value, determining that the vehicle would benefit from cooperation in the swarm based on a threshold benefit; and triggering swarm creation of the swarm.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 19, further comprising identifying a set of personalization parameters, wherein the threshold benefit is based on the set of personalization parameters.
</claims>
</document>
