<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SUBRAMANIAN DHARMASHANKAR
BHATTACHARJYA, DEBARUN
GAO, TIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70770219
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROXIMAL GRAPHICAL EVENT MODEL OF STATISTICAL LEARNING AND CAUSAL DISCOVERY WITH EVENT DATASETS
</title>

<abstract>
A graphical event model method, system, and computer program product, include learning statistical and causal co-occurrence relationships among multiple event-types of data, requiring no complex input, and generating a representation that explains a mutual dynamic of the multiple event-types in a form of a graphical event model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented graphical event model method, the method comprising: learning statistical and causal co-occurrence relationships among multiple event-types of data; requiring no complex input; and generating a representation that explains a mutual dynamic of the multiple event-types in a form of a graphical event model.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the learning the statistical and causal co-occurrence relationships assumes only a time-stamped, asynchronous, and irregularly-spaced event occurrence of the data on a time line spanning the multiple event-types as an input.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising learning from the multiple event-types using the graphical event model by considering a most recent event history and an optimal proximal window size.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising learning an expected duration between connected occurrences involving the multiple event-types and using the expected duration in estimating the statistical and causal co-occurrence relationships among the multiple event-types based on a most recent history.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising learning an expected duration between connected occurrences involving the multiple event-types and using the expected duration in estimating the statistical and causal co-occurrence relationships among the multiple event-types based on a most recent history.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising, by considering a most recent history: discovering an optimal window size; discovering an optimal parent set; and generating a causal sequence of potential future inter-dependent event-types that unfold in time using the optimal window size, the optimal parent set, and an estimate of respective occurrence times.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein parents in the graphical event model affect an instantaneous rate of observing an occurrence of a child event-type, and a dependence is automatically learnt from a history of past parent event-type occurrences.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a model fitting score for the graphical event model are based on a proximal conditional intensity model that estimates a conditional instantaneous intensity of a child event-type from the data, where the conditional instantaneous intensity is conditional on both a presence and an absence of a parent event-type in a specified historical time window, with an assumption of a piece-wise constant intensity for the conditional instantaneous intensity of a successor event type, with a different constant intensity corresponding to each parent-configuration state.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a model fitting score for the graphical event model are based on a proximal conditional intensity model that estimates a conditional instantaneous intensity of a child event-type from the data with an assumption of a piece-wise constant intensity for the conditional instantaneous intensity of a successor event-type, with a different constant intensity corresponding to each parent-configuration state.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the conditional instantaneous intensity is conditional on both a presence and an absence of a parent event-type in a specified historical time window.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein relationships for the graphical event model are due to a computation that is preformed via at least one of: an optimal window search that bounds a range of a possible impacting history; an optimal parent search that bounds a number of parent or cause event-types for any event-type in the data; and a forward and a backward search to iteratively find are optimal graph structure for the graphical event model.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein relationships for the graphical event model are due to a computation that is performed via each of: an optimal window search that bounds a range of a possible impacting history; an optimal parent search that bounds a number of parent or cause event-types for any event-type in the data; and a forward and a backward search to iteratively find an optimal graph structure for the graphical event model.
13. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein relationships for the graphical event model are due to a computation that is performed via at least two of: an optimal window search that bounds a range of a possible impacting history; an optimal parent search that bounds a number of parent or cause event-types for any event type in the data; and a forward and a backward search to iteratively find an optimal graph structure for the graphical event model.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein relationships for the graphical event model are due to a computation that is performed via an optimal window search that hounds a range of a possible impacting history.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein relationships for the graphical event model are due to a computation that is performed via an optimal parent search that bounds a number of parent or cause event-types for any event-type in the data.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein relationships for the graphical event model are due to a computation that is performed via a forward and a backward search to iteratively find an optimal graph structure for the graphical event model,
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein no user input is required, and wherein the data comprises multivariate and marked asynchronous event stream data where each event has a time-stamp and a complex object that serves as a mark of a type of event-related detail.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, embodied in a cloud-computing environment.
19. A computer program. product for graphical event modelling, the computer program product comprising a computer-readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform: learning statistical and causal co-occurrence relationships among multiple event-types of data; requiring no complex input; and generating a representation that explains a mutual dynamic of the multiple event-types in a form of a graphical event model.
20. A graphical event model system, said system comprising: a processor; and a memory, the memory storing instructions to cause the processor to perform: learning statistical and causal co-occurrence relationships among multiple event-types of data; requiring no complex input; and generating a representation that explains a mutual dynamic of the multiple event-types in a form of a graphical event model.
21. The system of claim 20, embodied in a cloud-computing environment.
22. A computer-implemented graphical event model method, the method comprising: learning statistical and causal co-occurrence relationships among multiple event-types of data, Where the learning the statistical and causal co-occurrence relationships assumes only a time-stamped, asynchronous, and irregularly spaced event occurrence of the data on a time line spanning the multiple event-types as an input; and generating a representation that explains a mutual dynamic of the multiple event-types in a form of a graphical event model.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 22, wherein no user input is required, and wherein the data comprises multivariate and marked asynchronous event stream data where each event has a time-stamp and a complex object that serves as a mark of a type of event-related detail.
24. A graphical event model system, said system comprising: a processor; and a memory, the memory storing instructions to cause the processor to perform: learning statistical and causal co-occurrence relationships among multiple event-types of data, where the learning the statistical and causal co-occurrence relationships assumes only a time-stamped, asynchronous, and irregularly spaced event occurrence of the data on a time line spanning the multiple event-types as an input; and generating a representation that explains a mutual dynamic of the multiple event-types in a form of a graphical event model.
25. The system of claim 24, wherein no user input is required, and wherein the data comprises multivariate and marked asynchronous event stream data where each event has a time-stamp and a complex object that serves as a mark of a type of event-related detail.
</claims>
</document>
