<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N7/00,G06Q10/02,G06Q30/02,G06Q50/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
REN, GUANGJIE
CHOWDHARY, PAWAN
LEE, SUNHWAN
Guan, Yue
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73230741
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HYBRID PRICE PRESENTATION STRATEGY USING A PROBABILISTIC HOTEL DEMAND FORECAST MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
A computer implemented method includes receiving a first set of data comprising financial data of a company and at least one of holiday data, industrial event data, or weather data. A probabilistic hotel demand forecast is computed for a hotel in a location based on a statistical analysis of prior hotel stays at the hotel in the location with an adjustment based on at least the financial data of the first set of data. The adjustment can be computed by the computer based on a prior effect of at least the financial data on a number of prior hotel stays. The resulting probabilistic hotel demand forecast can be displayed on a user terminal device. This forecast may be used to generate a future pricing strategy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method, comprising: receiving a first set of data comprising financial data of a company and at least one of holiday data, industrial event data, or weather data; computing a probabilistic hotel demand forecast for a hotel in a location based on a statistical analysis of prior hotel stays at the hotel in the location with an adjustment based on at least the financial data of the first set of data, wherein the adjustment is computed by the computer based on a prior effect of at least the financial data on a number of prior hotel stays; and displaying on a user terminal device, the probabilistic hotel demand forecast for the hotel in the location.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising updating the adjustment as additional financial data of the company is released.
3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising calculating, on the user terminal device, a threshold volume for the hotel in the location.
4. The method according to claim 3, further comprising: comparing the threshold volume to a forecasted volume generated by the probabilistic hotel demand forecast; indicating a high volume condition on a display of the user terminal device when the forecasted volume is greater than or equal to the threshold volume; and indicating a low volume condition on the display of the user terminal device when the forecasted volume is less than the threshold volume.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein a hybrid pricing strategy is displayed on the user terminal device when the high volume condition is indicated.
6. The method according to claim 4, wherein a fixed pricing strategy is displayed on the user terminal device when the low volume condition is indicated.
7. The method according to claim 1, further comprising calculating, on the user terminal device, a threshold confidence level for the hotel in the location.
8. The method according to claim 7, further comprising: comparing the threshold confidence level to a forecasted confidence level generated by the probabilistic hotel demand forecast; upon determining that the forecasted confidence level is greater than or equal to the threshold confidence level, indicating a high confidence condition; and upon determining that the forecasted confidence level is less than the threshold confidence level, indicating a low confidence condition.
9. The method according to claim 8, further comprising, upon determining the high confidence condition, displaying, on the user terminal device, a pricing strategy comprising committing to certain volumes and being willing to take a penalty if the certain volumes are not reached.
10. The method according to claim 8, further comprising, upon determining the low confidence condition, displaying, on the user terminal device, a pricing strategy comprising a no volume commitment.
11. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: sending the pricing strategy from the user terminal device to hotel user terminal device for approval; receiving a response to the pricing strategy from the hotel user terminal device; upon determining from the received response that the pricing strategy is accepted, accepting the pricing strategy for the hotel; and upon determining from the received response that the pricing strategy is not accepted, modifying the pricing strategy based on historical pricing strategy data of the hotel and sending the modified pricing strategy from the user terminal device to the hotel user terminal device.
12. A computer program product for forecasting a hotel demand, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a user terminal device to cause the user terminal device to: receive a first set of data comprising financial data of a company and at least one of holiday data, industrial event data, or weather data; compute a probabilistic hotel demand forecast for a hotel in a location based on a statistical analysis of prior hotel stays at the hotel in the location with an adjustment based on at least the financial data of the first set of data, wherein the adjustment s computed by the user terminal device based on a prior effect of at least the financial data on a number of prior hotel stays; and displaying on the user terminal device, the probabilistic hotel demand forecast for the hotel in the location.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the program instructions cause the user terminal device to: calculate a threshold volume for the hotel in the location; compare the threshold volume to a forecasted volume generated by the probabilistic hotel demand forecast; indicate a high volume condition when the forecasted volume is greater than or equal to the threshold volume; and indicate a low volume condition when the forecasted volume is less than the threshold volume.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the program instructions cause the user terminal device to: display, on the user terminal device, a hybrid pricing strategy when the high volume condition is indicated; and display, on the user terminal device, a fixed pricing strategy when the low volume condition is indicated.
15. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the program instructions cause the user terminal device to: calculate a threshold confidence level for the hotel in the location; compare the threshold confidence level to a forecasted confidence level generated by the probabilistic hotel demand forecast; indicate a high confidence condition when the forecasted confidence level is greater than or equal to the threshold confidence level; and indicate a low confidence condition when the forecasted confidence level is less than the threshold confidence level.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the program instructions cause the user terminal device to: upon determining the high confidence condition, display, on the user terminal device, a pricing strategy comprising committing to certain volumes and being willing to take a penalty if the certain volumes are not reached; and upon determining the low confidence condition, display, on the user terminal device, a pricing strategy comprising no volume commitment.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the program instructions cause the user terminal device to: send the pricing strategy from the user terminal device to hotel user terminal device for approval; receive a response to the pricing strategy from the hotel user terminal device; upon determining from the received response that the pricing strategy is accepted, accept the pricing strategy for the hotel; and upon determining from the received response that the pricing strategy is not accepted, modify the pricing strategy based on historical pricing strategy data and send the modified pricing strategy from the user terminal device to the hotel user terminal device for approval.
18. A computing device comprising: a processor; a network interface coupled to the processor to enable communication over a network; a user interface coupled to the processor; a storage device coupled to the processor; a code stored in the storage device, wherein an execution of the code by the processor configures the computing device to perform acts comprising: receiving data comprising financial data of a company and at least one of holiday data, industrial event data, or weather data; and computing a probabilistic hotel demand forecast for a hotel in a location based on a statistical analysis of prior hotel stays at the hotel in the location with an adjustment based on at least the financial data, wherein the adjustment is computed based on a prior effect of at least the financial data on a. number of prior hotel stays; displaying, on the user interface, the probabilistic hotel demand forecast for the hotel in the location.
19. The computing device of claim 18, wherein an execution of the code by the processor further configures the computing device to perform an act comprising calculating a threshold volume for the hotel in the location.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein an execution of the code by the processor further configures the computing device to perform an act comprising calculating a threshold confidence level for the hotel in the location.
</claims>
</document>
