<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/22,G06Q20/32,G06Q20/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, KI BUM
PARK, SUN YOUNG
YANG, SEUL-AE
JUNG, Hee-lok
KANG, Min-young
KIM, Kwang-su
AHN, Hyun-jin
YOON, Jae-seok
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66100867
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR PROVIDING CARD RECOMMENDATION INFORMATION AND DEVICE THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is a method of providing a recommended card, the method including: receiving a radio signal from at least one access point around a device; selecting one from the at least one access point, based on a strength of the received radio signal; determining a card merchant corresponding to the selected access point; determining at least one recommended card regarding the determined card merchant from at least one card registered with the device, based on the card merchant and card benefit information of the registered at least one card; and providing the at least one recommended card.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device comprising: a memory, in which at least one program is stored; and at least one processor configured to execute the at least one program to recommend a card to a user of the device based on a location of the device, wherein the memory comprises instructions making, when the device is operated, the at least one processor to perform: receiving a radio signal from at least one access point around the device; selecting at least one access point from the at least one access point, based on a strength of the received radio signal; determining a card merchant corresponding to the selected at least one access point; determining at least one recommended card regarding the determined card merchant from at least one card registered with the device, based on the card merchant and card benefit information of the registered at least one card; and providing the at least one recommended card.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the determining of the card merchant corresponding to the selected at least one access point comprises: obtaining an identification value of the selected at least one access point; and determining, as the card merchant, a card merchant matching the obtained identification value, and the card merchant matching the obtained identification value is determined based on access point information of a radio signal received upon card approval and card merchant information within card approval details.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the determining of the at least one recommended card comprises: generating expenditure pattern information of the user, based on card approval details stored in the device; and determining the at least one recommended card from the registered at least one card, based on the expenditure pattern information of the user.
4. The device of claim 3, wherein the expenditure pattern information of the user comprises metadata for at least one of card usage amount information of each of the registered at least one card, a card usage date, a card usage time, ranking information of a card merchant business category preferred by the user, and a card usage frequency of the user for each card merchant business category.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the determining of the at least one recommended card comprises: determining an anticipated payment amount to be paid by the user at the determined card merchant; calculating a discount benefit amount provided to the user as the determined anticipated payment amount is paid with each of the registered at least one card; and determining the at least one recommended card from the registered at least one card, based on the discount benefit amount.
6. The device of claim 5, wherein the determining of the anticipated payment amount comprises: calculating an average payment amount paid by the user at at least one card merchant having the same business category as that of the determined card merchant, based on expenditure pattern information of the user; and estimating the anticipated payment amount to be paid by the user at the determined card merchant, based on the calculated average payment amount.
7. The device of claim 5, wherein the determining of the anticipated payment amount comprises: obtaining profile information of the user; and estimating the anticipated payment amount, based on expenditure pattern information of at least one other user having a profile similar to the profile information of the user.
8. The device of claim 5, wherein the determining of the at least one recommended card comprises: calculating an amount paid in a current month by each of the registered at least one card, based on card approval details stored in the device; calculating a current-month usage amount achievement ratio of each of the registered at least one card, based on the calculated amount; calculating a current-month anticipated usage amount achievement ratio when the anticipated payment amount is paid with each of the registered at least one card, based on the calculated current-month usage amount achievement ratio; and determining the at least one recommended card from the registered at least one card, based on the calculated current-month anticipated usage amount achievement ratio.
9. A method of providing a recommended card, the method comprising: receiving a radio signal from at least one access point around a device; selecting at least one access point from the at least one access point, based on a strength of the received radio signal; determining a card merchant corresponding to the selected at least one access point; determining at least one recommended card regarding the determined card merchant from at least one card registered with the device, based on the card merchant and card benefit information of the registered at least one card; and providing the at least one recommended card.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the determining of the card merchant corresponding to the selected at least one access point comprises: obtaining an identification value of the selected at least one access point; and determining, as the card merchant, a card merchant matching the obtained identification value, and the card merchant matching the obtained identification value is determined based on access point information of a radio signal received upon card approval and card merchant information within card approval details.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the determining of the at least one recommended card comprises: generating expenditure pattern information of the user, based on card approval details stored in the device; and determining the at least one recommended card from the registered at least one card, based on the expenditure pattern information of the user.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the determining of the at least one recommended card comprises: determining an anticipated payment amount to be paid by the user at the determined card merchant; calculating a discount benefit amount provided to the user as the determined anticipated payment amount is paid with each of the registered at least one card; and determining the at least one recommended card from the registered at least one card, based on the discount benefit amount.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the determining of the anticipated payment amount comprises: calculating an average payment amount paid by the user at at least one card merchant having the same business category as that of the determined card merchant, based on expenditure pattern information of the user; and estimating the anticipated payment amount to be paid by the user at the determined card merchant, based on the calculated average payment amount.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the determining of the anticipated payment amount comprises: obtaining profile information of the user; and estimating the anticipated payment amount, based on expenditure pattern information of at least one other user having a profile similar to the profile information of the user.
15. A computer program product comprising a computer-readable storage medium, the computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions for performing: receiving a radio signal from at least one access point around a device; selecting one access point from the at least one access point around the device, based on a strength of the received radio signal; determining a card merchant corresponding to the selected access point; determining at least one recommended card regarding the determined card merchant from at least one card registered with the device, based on the card merchant and card benefit information of the registered at least one card; and providing the at least one recommended card.
</claims>
</document>
