<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SERVICENOW
</assignee>

<inventors>
TAMIR, GIORA
Barkovic, David Victor
Gajjala, Karthika
Waplington, Brian James
Chen, Xuchang
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74038361
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SOLUTION MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ADDRESSING CYBERSECURITY VULNERABILITIES
</title>

<abstract>
Solution management systems and methods are presently disclosed that enable receiving, compiling, and analyzing vendor solutions, determining the vendor solutions that address a target vulnerability of a client network and/or client devices, determining additional vulnerabilities of the client network and/or client devices that the vendor solutions address, and selecting a vendor solution to remediate the target vulnerability. The presently disclosed systems and methods also enable scoring, risk evaluation, and additional metrics to facilitate determining the vendor solution(s) that have the largest impact and/or benefit to the various vulnerabilities of the client network and/or client devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A cloud computing system comprising: one or more data centers; a client instance hosted by the one or more data centers; a communication network accessible by the client instance; one or more client devices accessing the client instance; one or more client networks enabling communication with the client instance by the one or more client devices via the communication network, wherein the one or more client devices and one or more client networks comprise a plurality of configuration items; a vulnerabilities database communicatively coupled to the client instance, wherein the vulnerabilities database stores a list of vulnerabilities associated with configuration items of the plurality of configuration items; and one or more vendor websites communicatively coupled to the client instance via the communication network, wherein the one or more vendor websites provide vendor solutions to vulnerabilities present on the list of vulnerabilities associated with the plurality of configuration items; wherein the client instance is configured to receive a solution graph associating the vendor solutions with respective vulnerabilities addressed by each vendor solution, and wherein the client instance comprises solution risk evaluation logic configured to evaluate a risk associated with each vendor solution.
2. The cloud computing system of claim 1, wherein the risk is associated with not implementing a respective vendor solution.
3. The cloud computing system of claim 1, wherein the risk is associated with the respective vulnerabilities addressed by a respective vendor solution.
4. The cloud computing system of claim 1, wherein the solution risk evaluation logic is configured to provide a risk score based on: a maximum risk of a vulnerability; and a number of vulnerabilities that a vendor solution is configured to remediate.
5. The cloud computing system of claim 1, wherein the client instance comprises solution graph generation logic configured to: generate the solution graph; and update only a portion of the solution graph associated with new vendor solutions in response to receiving the new vendor solutions.
6. The cloud computing system of claim 5, wherein a remaining portion of the solution graph is unchanged prior to and after updating only the portion of the solution graph associated with the new vendor solutions.
7. The cloud computing system of claim 1, wherein the client instance is configured to enable implementation of a respective vendor solution in response to determining that the risk of not implementing the respective vendor solution is higher than risks of not implement other vendor solutions.
8. A tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable-medium, comprising machine-readable instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform acts comprising: receive a solution graph associating vendor solutions with a plurality of vulnerabilities of a plurality of configuration items, wherein the plurality of configuration items comprise one or more client networks, one or more client devices communicatively coupled to the one or more client networks, or both; and evaluate a risk associated with one or more vulnerabilities of the plurality of vulnerabilities that are associated with a vendor solution
9. The tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable-medium of claim 8, wherein the machine-readable instructions cause the processor to provide a risk rating associated with not implementing the vendor solution.
10. The tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable-medium of claim 9, wherein the machine-readable instructions cause the processor to provide the risk rating on a scale of 1 to 5.
11. The tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable-medium of claim 9, wherein the machine-readable instructions cause the processor to display the risk rating.
12. The tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable-medium of claim 8, wherein the machine-readable instructions cause the processor to determine and display a number of vulnerabilities of the plurality of vulnerabilities associated with the plurality of configuration items that the vendor solution is configured to remediate.
13. The tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable-medium of claim 8, wherein the machine-readable instructions cause the processor to determine and display a completion percentage associated with a number of vulnerabilities of the plurality of vulnerabilities associated with the plurality of configuration items that the vendor solution has remediated compared to a total number of vulnerabilities of the plurality of vulnerabilities that the vendor solution is configured to remediate.
14. The tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable-medium of claim 8, wherein the machine-readable instructions cause the processor to implement the vendor solution in response to determining that the risk associated with the one or more vulnerabilities associated with the vendor solution is higher than risks associated with vulnerabilities associated with other vendor solutions.
15. A client instance hosted by one or more data centers, wherein the client instance is configured to: communicate with a communication network, wherein the communication network is configured to communicate with one or more client networks, a vulnerabilities database, and one or more vendor websites, wherein the one or more client networks are configured to communicate with one or more client devices, wherein the one or more client networks, the one or more client devices, or both, comprise one or more configuration items, wherein the vulnerabilities database stores a list of vulnerabilities associated with the one or more configuration items, and wherein the one or more vendor websites provide vendor solutions to a plurality of vulnerabilities of the list of vulnerabilities; and receive a solution graph associating the vendor solutions with the plurality of vulnerabilities; wherein the client instance comprises solution risk evaluation logic configured to evaluate a risk associated with a vendor solution.
16. The client instance of claim 15, wherein the risk is associated with one or more vulnerabilities of the plurality of vulnerabilities, wherein the vendor solution is configured to remediate the one or more vulnerabilities.
17. The client instance of claim 16, wherein the solution risk evaluation logic is configured to provide a risk score associated with the one or more vulnerabilities.
18. The client instance of claim 17, wherein the risk score is provided on a scale of 1 to 100.
19. The client instance of claim 17, wherein a high risk score indicates a high level of risk of the one or more client networks, the one or more client devices, or both, that would be alleviated by deploying the vendor solution.
20. The client instance of claim 17, comprising solution display logic configured to display the risk score.
</claims>
</document>
