<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/063,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHO, YUN-KYO
LEE, JAE-GON
PARK, JUN-SEOK
SONG, JIN-OOK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69719918
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTEGRATED CIRCUIT THAT EXTRACTS DATA, NEURAL NETWORK PROCESSOR INCLUDING THE INTEGRATED CIRCUIT, AND NEURAL NETWORK DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
An integrated circuit included in a device for performing a neural network operation includes a buffer configured to store feature map data in units of cells each including at least one feature, wherein the feature map data is for use in the neural network operation; and a multiplexing circuit configured to receive the feature map data from the buffer, and output extracted data by extracting feature data of one of features that are included within a plurality of cells in the received feature map data, the features each corresponding to an identical coordinate value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An integrated circuit included in a device for performing a neural network operation, the integrated circuit comprising: a buffer configured to store feature map data in units of cells each comprising at least one feature, wherein the feature map data is for use in the neural network operation; and a multiplexing circuit configured to receive the feature map data from the buffer, and output extracted data by extracting feature data of one of features that are included within a plurality of cells in the received feature map data, the features each corresponding to an identical coordinate value.
2. The integrated circuit of claim 1, wherein the multiplexing circuit is configured to generate first data by extracting, from the plurality of cells, pieces of feature data corresponding to all coordinate values of the first data, and generate the extracted data by rotating the first data in at least one of a vertical direction and a horizontal direction.
3. (canceled)
4. The integrated circuit of claim 1, wherein the multiplexing circuit comprises: a first multiplexing circuit comprising a multiplexer for extracting feature data of one of features included in the plurality of cells and each corresponding to a first coordinate value, and configured to output first data based on the extracted feature data; and a second multiplexing circuit comprising a plurality of multiplexers for receiving the first data from the first multiplexing circuit and rotating the received first data in a vertical direction or a horizontal direction.
5. The integrated circuit of claim 4, wherein the first multiplexing circuit comprises a plurality of multiplexers configured to select one input signal from among input signals, a number of which corresponds to the number of the cells included in the feature map data.
6. The integrated circuit of claim 5, wherein the first multiplexing circuit comprises multiplexers, the number of which corresponds to the number of the at least one feature included in each cell.
7. The integrated circuit of claim 4, wherein the second multiplexing circuit comprises: a vertical rotation circuit configured to rotate the first data in the vertical direction by changing an order of rows of the first data in a matrix form, and generate vertically rotated first data; and a horizontal rotation circuit configured to rotate the vertically rotated first data in the horizontal direction by changing an order of columns of the vertically rotated first data, and generate the extracted data.
8. The integrated circuit of claim 7, wherein the vertical rotation circuit comprises multiplexers, a number of which corresponds to the number of the rows of the first data, and the horizontal rotation circuit comprises multiplexers, a number of which corresponds to the number of the columns of the first data.
9. The integrated circuit of claim 8, wherein the multiplexers included in the vertical rotation circuit are configured to select different rows of the rows of the first data, respectively, and the multiplexers included in the horizontal rotation circuit are configured to select different columns of the columns of the first data, respectively.
10. 10.-12. (canceled)
13. The integrated circuit of claim 1, wherein the neural network operation comprises a convolution operation, the feature map data comprises input feature map data on which the convolution operation is to be performed, and the extracted data is data that is to be directly multiplied by a weight during the convolution operation.
14. A neural network processor configured to perform a neural network operation, the neural network processor comprising: an internal memory configured to receive external data from outside the neural network processor and store data and/or a weight based on the external data; a data extraction circuit configured to receive data from the internal memory, store the received data as feature map data in units of cells, classify features included in the feature map data into a plurality of groups, and output extracted data by extracting feature data of one feature from each of the plurality of groups, wherein each of the plurality of groups comprises features included in a plurality of cells included in the feature map data, the features each corresponding to an identical coordinate value; and an arithmetic circuit configured to perform the neural network operation by using the extracted data provided by the data extraction circuit.
15. The neural network processor of claim 14, wherein the arithmetic circuit is further configured to perform a convolution operation on the feature map data by multiplying the extracted data by the weight provided by the internal memory.
16. The neural network processor of claim 14, wherein the data extraction circuit comprises: a buffer configured to store the received data as the feature map data in units of cells; and a multiplexing circuit configured to output the extracted data by extracting data necessary for the neural network operation from the feature map data received from the buffer.
17. The neural network processor of claim 16, wherein the multiplexing circuit comprises a first multiplexing circuit comprising a plurality of multiplexers corresponding to the plurality of groups, respectively, each of the plurality of multiplexers being configured to extract feature data of one feature from each of the plurality of groups.
18. The neural network processor of claim 17, wherein the first multiplexing circuit is configured to output first data based on pieces of feature data extracted by the plurality of multiplexers, and the multiplexing circuit further comprises a second multiplexing circuit configured to generate the extracted data by rearranging the first data received from the first multiplexing circuit in a horizontal direction and/or a vertical direction.
19. The neural network processor of claim 17, wherein the first multiplexing circuit is configured to output first data based on pieces of feature data extracted by the plurality of multiplexers, and the multiplexing circuit further comprises: a vertical rotation circuit configured to change an order of rows of the first data in a matrix form and comprising multiplexers, a number of which corresponds to the number of the rows of the first data; and a horizontal rotation circuit configured to change an order of columns of the first data and comprising multiplexers, a number of which corresponds to the number of the columns of the first data.
20. The neural network processor of claim 14, wherein a size of the extracted data is equal to or less than a size of the cells.
21. A data processing method performed by a neural network processor configured to perform a neural network operation, the data processing method comprising: storing feature map data for a neural network operation in units of cells each comprising at least one feature; and generating first data having a matrix form by extracting feature data of one of features included in a plurality of cells included in the feature map data, the features each corresponding to an identical coordinate value, for a plurality of coordinate values; generating extracted data for use in the neural network operation by rearranging rows and/or columns of the first data; and performing the neural network operation by using the extracted data, wherein the performing of the neural network operation is performed by an arithmetic circuit.
22. The data processing method of claim 21, wherein the generating of the first data comprises generating the first data by extracting the feature data by using a plurality of multiplexers corresponding to the plurality of coordinate values.
23. The data processing method of claim 21, wherein the generating of the extracted data comprises: rotating the first data in a vertical direction by changing an order of rows of the first data by using a plurality of multiplexers; and generating the extracted data by rotating vertically rotated first data in a horizontal direction by changing an order of columns of the vertically rotated first data by using the plurality of multiplexers.
24. The data processing method of claim 21, wherein the generating of the first data comprises extracting feature data of one of features that are included in the plurality of cells, the features each corresponding to an identical coordinate value, based on a location, on the feature map data, of the extracted data necessary for the neural network operation.
25. 25.-27. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
