<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64D27/10,B64D31/00,F01D21/00,F02C9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PAYYOOR, NARAYANAN
COMANDORE, RANGASAI MADOOR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72141171
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and System for Engine Operation
</title>

<abstract>
A method for operating a turbine engine is provided. The method includes receiving operating data comprising at least an engine operation parameter, an environmental parameter, a location parameter, and a time parameter; operating the turbine engine based on a baseline ground operation schedule; generating an adjusted ground operation schedule based on the operating data and the baseline ground operation schedule, wherein generating the adjusted ground operation schedule is based on a machine learning algorithm; and operating the engine based on the adjusted ground operation schedule.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for operating a turbine engine for an aircraft, the method comprising: receiving operating data comprising at least an engine operation parameter, an environmental parameter, a location parameter, and a time parameter; operating the turbine engine based on a baseline ground operation schedule; generating an adjusted ground operation schedule based on the operating data and the baseline ground operation schedule, wherein generating the adjusted ground operation schedule is based on a machine learning algorithm; and operating the engine based on the adjusted ground operation schedule.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the adjusted ground operation schedule based on the machine learning algorithm comprises generating the adjusted ground operation schedule based on a classification algorithm.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the ground operation schedule comprises a bowed rotor mitigation schedule, wherein the bowed rotor mitigation schedule comprises a rotor speed, a rotor acceleration, a duration of rotation of the rotor assembly, and a frequency of changes to the rotor speed from a first speed to a second speed.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the bowed rotor mitigation schedule comprises one or more of a motoring schedule or a ground idle schedule.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein adjusting the ground operation schedule comprises adjusting the motoring schedule prior to ignition of the engine.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein adjusting the ground operation schedule comprises adjusting the ground idle schedule prior to increasing output power at the engine.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the operational data comprises the environmental parameter defining one or more ambient air parameters at a geographic location at which the engine is located prior to adjusting the ground operation schedule.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the operational data comprises the time parameter defining an engine operation duration between takeoff at a first geographic location and shutdown at a second geographic location.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising comparing the engine operation parameter defining at least a takeoff condition and shutdown condition, the time parameter corresponding to each of the takeoff condition and the shutdown condition, the location parameter corresponding to a first geographic location and a second geographic location, and the environmental parameter corresponding to an ambient air parameter corresponding to each of the first geographic location and the second geographic location.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the engine operation parameter further comprises one or more of a lubricant temperature, a lubricant pressure, a rotor surface temperature, an air temperature within the engine, an engine cycle quantity, or a duration of engine operation between the takeoff condition and the shutdown condition.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating an adjusted aircraft operating schedule based at least on the adjusted ground operation schedule.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein generating the adjusted aircraft operating schedule comprises adjusting the location parameter defining one or more of a second geographic location at which the shutdown condition occurs, or a location pair comprising a first geographic location at which a takeoff condition occurs and the second geographic location.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein generating the adjusted aircraft operating schedule comprises adjusting the time parameter corresponding to the location pair, wherein adjusting the time parameter corresponding to the location pair determines whether or when the aircraft operates at one or more of the first geographic location or the second geographic location.
14. A gas turbine engine, the engine comprising: a sensor configured to obtain one or more engine operation parameters based at least on a rotor assembly or a lubricant system; and a controller, wherein the controller is configured to store a baseline ground operation schedule and a machine learning algorithm, and further wherein the controller is configured to execute operations, the operations comprising: receiving, via the sensor, operating data comprising at least an engine operation parameter, an environmental parameter, a location parameter, and a time parameter; operating the gas turbine engine based on a baseline ground operation schedule; generating, via the machine learning algorithm, an adjusted ground operation schedule based on the operating data and the baseline ground operation schedule; and operating the gas turbine engine based on the adjusted ground operation schedule.
15. The gas turbine engine of claim 14, wherein the ground operation schedule comprises a rotor speed, a rotor acceleration, a duration of rotation of the rotor assembly, and a frequency of changes to the rotor speed from a first speed to a second speed.
16. The gas turbine engine of claim 14, wherein generating the adjusted ground operation schedule comprises adjusting one or more of a motoring parameter or a ground idle condition parameter based at least on end user route data.
17. The gas turbine engine of claim 14, the operations further comprising comparing the engine operation parameter defining at least a takeoff condition and shutdown condition, the time parameter corresponding to each of the takeoff condition and the shutdown condition, the location parameter corresponding to a first geographic location and a second geographic location, and the environmental parameter corresponding to an ambient air parameter corresponding to each of the first geographic location and the second geographic location.
18. The gas turbine engine of claim 17, the operations further comprising: generating an adjusted aircraft operating schedule based at least on the adjusted ground operation schedule, wherein generating the adjusted aircraft operating schedule comprises adjusting the location parameter defining one or more of a second geographic location at which the shutdown condition occurs, or a location pair comprising a first geographic location at which a takeoff condition occurs and the second geographic location.
19. A computer-implemented method for mitigating rotor bow at a gas turbine engine, the method comprising: receiving operating data comprising at least an engine operation parameter, an environmental parameter, a location parameter, and a time parameter; operating the gas turbine engine based on a baseline ground operation schedule; generating, via a machine learning algorithm, an adjusted ground operation schedule based on the operating data and the baseline ground operation schedule; and operating the gas turbine engine based on the adjusted ground operation schedule.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 19, wherein the ground operation schedule comprises adjusting one or more of a motoring schedule or a ground idle schedule based at least on the environmental parameter at a geographic location at which the engine is located prior to adjusting the ground operation schedule, and further based at least on the time parameter corresponding at least to engine operation duration between takeoff at a first geographic location and shutdown at a second geographic location.
</claims>
</document>
