<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B13/02,G05B19/418,G05B23/02,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N3/00,G06N3/02,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N5/04,G06N7/00,H04B17/309,H04B17/318,H04L1/00,H04L1/18,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRONG FORCE IOT PORTFOLIO 2016
</assignee>

<inventors>
CELLA, CHARLES HOWARD
DESAI, MEHUL
DUFFY, JR., GERALD WILLIAM
MCGUCKIN, JEFFREY P.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63669288
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR DETECTION IN AN INDUSTRIAL INTERNET OF THINGS DATA COLLECTION ENVIRONMENT WITH INTELLIGENT DATA COLLECTION AND EQUIPMENT PACKAGE ADJUSTMENT FOR A PRODUCTION LINE
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for detection in an industrial internet of things data collection environment with intelligent data collection and equipment package adjustment for a production line are disclosed. An example system includes a data collector communicatively coupled to a plurality of input channels connected to data collection points operatively coupled to at least one piece of equipment of an equipment package of the production environment and a data acquisition circuit structured to interpret a plurality of detection values from the plurality of input channels. A data analysis circuit utilizes an expert system diagnostic tool to identify an off-nominal process state in response to the plurality of detection values and a response circuit adjusts an equipment package parameter in response to the off-nominal process state.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A monitoring system for data collection in a production environment, the system comprising: a data collector communicatively coupled to a plurality of input channels connected to data collection points operatively coupled to at least one piece of equipment of an equipment package of the production environment; a data acquisition circuit structured to interpret a plurality of detection values from the plurality of input channels; a data analysis circuit structured to utilize an expert system diagnostic tool to identify an off-nominal process state in response to the plurality of detection values; and a response circuit structured to adjust an equipment package parameter in response to the off-nominal process state.
2. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein adjusting the equipment package parameter comprises at least one of: changing an equipment type, changing operating parameters for the at least one piece of equipment, initiating amelioration of an equipment issue, or making recommendations regarding future equipment for an offset system.
3. The monitoring system of claim 2, wherein the equipment type is at least one of a pump, a mixer, an agitator, a conveyor, a motor, a source water component, or a storage tank.
4. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the data analysis circuit is further structured to determine a current status of the production environment, wherein the current status of the production environment comprises at least one of: a current state of the at least one piece of equipment, a current condition of the at least one piece of equipment, a current stage of a production in the production environment, or a confirmation of the current stage of the production in the production environment.
5. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the off-nominal process state comprises at least one of a failure state, a safety state, or a maintenance state.
6. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the off-nominal process state comprises a continuously monitored state.
7. The monitoring system of claim 6, wherein the continuously monitored state comprises at least one of a component temperature or a component pressure of the at least one piece of equipment.
8. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the expert system diagnostic tool comprises at least one of a rule-based expert system or a model-based expert system structured to identify changes in a noise pattern of the at least one piece of equipment.
9. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the response circuit is further structured to change a data collection package as a result of identifying the off-nominal process state.
10. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the response circuit is further structured to rebalance process loads between components of the equipment package to achieve at least one of: extended life of a component, improved probability of process success, or maintenance facilitation on a component of the production environment.
11. The monitoring system of claim 1, further comprising a haptic feedback circuit structured to provide a haptic feedback instruction as an alert or notification to a user, to alert or notify the user that the off-nominal process state has been identified.
12. A computer-implemented method for data collection on a production line, the method comprising: collecting data from a data collector communicatively coupled to a plurality of input channels connected to data collection points operatively coupled to at least one equipment package of a production environment; interpreting a plurality of detection values from the plurality of input channels; utilizing an expert system diagnostic tool to identify an off-nominal process state in response to the plurality of detection values; and adjusting an equipment package parameter in response to the off-nominal process state.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein adjusting the equipment package parameter comprises at least one of: changing an equipment type, changing operating parameters for a piece of equipment, initiating amelioration of an equipment issue, or making recommendations regarding future equipment for an offset system.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein adjusting the equipment package parameter comprises making recommendations regarding future equipment for the production environment.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the off-nominal process state is at least one of a failure state, a safety state, or a maintenance state.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the equipment package comprises one of a pump, a mixer, an agitator, a conveyor, a motor, a source water component, or a storage tank.
17. An apparatus for monitoring data collection in a production environment, the apparatus comprising: a data acquisition circuit structured to receive a plurality of detection values from a plurality of input sensors communicatively coupled to at least one industrial component of an equipment package of a production environment; a data analysis circuit structured to utilize an expert system diagnostic tool to identify an off-nominal process state in response to the plurality of detection values, wherein the expert system diagnostic tool comprises at least one of a rule-based expert system or a model-based expert system to identify changes in a noise pattern of the at least one industrial component; and a response circuit structured to adjust an equipment package parameter in response to the off-nominal process state.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein adjusting the equipment package parameter comprises changing an equipment type, changing operating parameters for a piece of equipment, initiating amelioration of an equipment issue, or making recommendations regarding future equipment.
19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the data analysis circuit is further structured to determine a current status of the production environment, wherein the current status of the production environment comprises at least one of: a current state of the at least one industrial component, a current condition of the at least one industrial component, a current stage of a production in the production environment, or a confirmation of the current stage of the production in the production environment.
20. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the response circuit is further structured to change a data collection package as a result of identifying the off-nominal process state.
21. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the off-nominal process state comprises an operating condition where electrical power is still supplied to the at least one industrial component, the apparatus further comprising a haptic feedback circuit structured to provide a haptic feedback instruction as an alert or notification to a user to alert or notify the user that the electrical power is still supplied to the at least one industrial component.
</claims>
</document>
