<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F3/044,H03K17/96
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TANGI0
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUO, LIUCHENG
KONG, MING
LIN, CHIA-HUNG
OLIVAREZ CORREA, ILAN JOHAN EDUARDO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64397640
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Sensor Device and Method
</title>

<abstract>
A sensor device for determining a position of an operator's finger/hand, comprises a handle portion comprising one or more touch sensing electrode portions. Each touch sensing electrode portion is configured to provide an electrical signal in response to the operator's finger/hand being on or near the one or more touch sensing electrode portions. The sensor device also comprises a measurement module configured to receive the or each electrical signal from the touch sensing electrode portion(s) and determine a position of the operator's finger/hand relative to one or more of the touch sensing electrode portions based on the or each electrical signal. The or each touch sensing electrode portion is formed of or comprises a non-metallic conductive material.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A sensor device for determining a position of an operator's finger/hand, comprising: a handle portion comprising one or more touch sensing electrode portions, each touch sensing electrode portion configured to provide an electrical signal in response to the operator's finger/hand being on or near the one or more touch sensing electrode portions, and a measurement module configured to receive the or each electrical signal from the touch sensing electrode portion(s) and determine a position of the operator's finger/hand relative to one or more of the touch sensing electrode portions based on the or each electrical signal, wherein the or each touch sensing electrode portion is formed of or comprises a non-metallic conductive material.
2. 2-28. (canceled)
29. The device of claim 1, wherein the or each touch sensing electrode portion is formed of or comprises a thermo-formable material and/or is formed by a moulding process and/or wherein the or each touch sensing electrode portion form at least a part of one or more electrodes; and/or wherein the or each touch sensing electrode portion is dimensioned for sensing touch by an operator's digit and, optionally or preferably, wherein the or each touch sensing electrode has a dimension substantially the width of a finger.
30. The device of claim 1, wherein the handle portion comprises a first non-conductive material at least provided on or over the or each touch sensing electrode portion.
31. The device of claim 30, wherein the handle portion comprises a core, the or each touch sensing electrode portion is formed in or on the core and the first non-conductive material is further provided on or over the core and, optionally, wherein the core is formed of or comprises a second non-conductive material, and wherein the first non-conductive material is the same as or different to the second non-conductive material.
32. The device of claim 30, wherein the or each touch sensing electrode portion is defined in or on the interior surface of the first non-conductive material.
33. The device of claim 30, wherein the first non-conductive material is configured to provide a hand and/or finger grip and, optionally or preferably, has a three dimensionally profiled exterior surface; and, optionally or preferably wherein the or each sensing electrode portion has a sensing surface configured, for example formed with a three dimensional profile, to conform to the exterior surface of the first non-conductive material.
34. The device of claim 30, wherein the first non-conductive material is formed of or comprises a thermo-formable material, and optionally or preferably, is formed by a moulding process.
35. The device of claim 32, wherein the second non-conductive material is formed of or comprises a thermo-formable material, and optionally or preferably, is formed by a moulding process.
36. The device of claim 30, wherein the first non-conductive material is substantially rigid, pliable and/or deformable.
37. The device of claim 32, wherein the second non-conductive material is substantially rigid, pliable and/or deformable.
38. The device of claim 1, wherein the measurement module comprises one or more electrical connectors configured to mechanically contact the or each touch sensing electrode portion and, optionally, wherein the or each connector comprises a substantially rigid mating portion configured to deform or penetrate a contacting portion of the or each touch sensing electrode portion; and optionally or preferably, wherein the mating portion is biased towards the contacting portion of the or each touch sensing electrode portion.
39. The device of claim 1 comprising: (i) a plurality of touch sensing electrode portions spatially distributed around the handle portion, wherein each touch sensing electrode portion is configured to provide an electrical signal in response to touch by an operator, such as touch by different portions of a digit or different digits; and/or (ii) wherein the or each electrical signal is provided in response to a change in capacitance between the respective touch sensing electrode portion and the operator's finger/hand and/or (iii) further comprising a hand mounting portion connected or connectable to the handle portion and configured to mount the handle portion to said operator's finger/hand and/or (iv) further comprising a switching mechanism configured to provide a control signal to the measurement module to switch the measurement module between a left hand mode and a right hand mode; and optionally or preferably, wherein the measurement module is configured to determine a position of a left hand finger based on the or each electrical signal and the control signal when in the left hand mode, and to determine a position of a right hand finger based on the or each electrical signal and the control signal when in the right hand model; and optionally or preferably, wherein the switching mechanism is a switch, button or sensor disposed on or in the handle portion; and/or wherein the switching mechanism is actuated upon connection of the hand mounting portion to the handle portion.
40. A method of manufacturing a sensor device, the method comprising: forming a handle portion comprising one or more touch sensing electrode portion(s) formed from a non-metallic conductive material; providing a measurement module configured to receive an electrical signal from the or each touch sensing electrode portion; and mounting the measurement module within the handle portion.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein the step of forming the handle portion comprises: forming the one or more touch sensing electrode portion(s); and providing a first non-conductive material at least on or over the or each touch sensing electrode portion; and, optionally, wherein the first non-conductive material is configured to provide a hand and/or finger grip and, optionally or preferably, has a three dimensionally profiled exterior surface and, optionally, wherein the or each sensing electrode portion is configured, for example formed with a three dimensional profile, to conform to the exterior surface of the first non-conductive material.
42. The method of claim 40, wherein the step of forming the handle portion comprises: forming a core; and forming the or each touch sensing electrode portion in or on the core; and, optionally or preferably, wherein the measurement module comprises one or more electrical connectors configured to mechanically contact the or each touch sensing electrode portion, and the step of mounting the measurement module within the handle portion comprises: positioning the measurement module to a contacting position within the handle portion in which the one or more electrical connectors mechanically contact the or each touch sensing electrode portion.
43. The method of claim 42, wherein the core is formed of or comprises a second non-conductive material that is different from the first non-conductive material; and optionally or preferably, wherein the first non-conductive material is further provided on or over the exterior surface of the core.
44. The method of claim 42, wherein the core is formed of or comprises the first non-conductive material, and the or each touch sensing electrode portion is formed in or on the interior surface of the first non-conductive material; and optionally or preferably, wherein the core is integrally formed with the first non-conductive material.
45. The method of claim 40, wherein the or each touch sensing electrode portion is formed of or comprises a thermo-formable material, and optionally or preferably, is formed by a moulding process.
46. The method of claim 41, wherein the first non-conductive material is formed of or comprises a thermo-formable material, and optionally or preferably, is formed by a moulding process.
47. The method of claim 43, wherein the second non-conductive material is formed of or comprises a thermo-formable material, and optionally or preferably, is formed by a moulding process.
</claims>
</document>
