<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LASTLINE
</assignee>

<inventors>
COVA, MARCO
Leita, Corrado
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74189274
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR IDENTIFYING INFECTED NETWORK NODES BASED ON ANOMALOUS BEHAVIOR MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure is directed to a method of identifying an infected network node. The method includes identifying a first network node as infected. The method includes collecting a first set of network data from the first network node including anomalous activities performed by the first network node. The method includes generating an anomalous behavior model using the first set of network data. The method includes collecting a second set of network data from a second network node including anomalous activities performed by the second network node. The method includes comparing the second set of data to the generated anomalous behavior model. The method includes determining, from the comparison, that a similarity between first characteristics and second characteristics exceeds a predefined threshold. The method includes ascertaining, based on the determination, the second network node as an infected network node.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for identifying infected nodes within a network, comprising: identifying a first one of a plurality of network nodes as infected; collecting a first set of network data from the first network node including one or more anomalous activities performed by the first network node; generating an anomalous behavior model using the first set of network data; collecting a second set of network data from a second one of the plurality of network nodes including one or more anomalous activities performed by the second network node; comparing the second set of data to the generated anomalous behavior model; determining, from the comparison, that a similarity between a first characteristic associated with the one or more anomalous activities performed by the first network node and a second characteristic associated with the one or more anomalous activities performed by the second network node exceeds a predefined threshold; and ascertaining, based on the determination, the second network node as an infected network node.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a first timestamp corresponding to when the first network node is identified as infected; and collecting the first set of network data to include the one or more anomalous activities that each occurred at a timestamp substantially close to the first timestamp.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first characteristic includes at least one of a recurring interval of the one or more anomalous activities performed by the first network node or an occurrence time of each of the one or more anomalous activities performed by the first network node, and the second characteristic includes at least one of a recurring interval of the one or more anomalous activities performed by the first network node and an occurrence time of each of the one or more anomalous activities performed by the second network node.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first characteristic includes a data size of the first set of network data, and the second characteristic includes a data size of the second set of network data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first characteristic includes a data type of the first set of network data, and the second characteristic includes a data type of the second set of network data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first characteristic includes a destination point to which the first set of network data is transmitted, and the second characteristic includes a destination point to which the second set of network data is transmitted.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: communicating with a threat detection system to ascertain that the first network node is infected prior to collecting the first set of network data.
8. A computing device comprising: a memory; and one or more processors operatively coupled to the memory, the one or more processors being to: identify a first one of a plurality of network nodes as infected; collect a first set of network data from the first network node including one or more anomalous activities performed by the first network node; generate an anomalous behavior model using the first set of network data; collect a second set of network data from a second one of the plurality of network nodes including one or more anomalous activities performed by the second network node; compare the second set of data to the generated anomalous behavior model; determine, from the comparison, that a similarity between a first characteristic associated with the one or more anomalous activities performed by the second network node and a second characteristic associated with the one or more anomalous activities performed by the first network node exceeds a predefined threshold; and ascertain, based on the determination, the second network node as an infected network node.
9. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further to: determine a first timestamp corresponding to when the first network node is identified as infected; and collect the first set of network data to include the one or more anomalous activities that each occurred at a timestamp substantially close to the first timestamp.
10. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the first characteristic includes at least one of a recurring interval of the one or more anomalous activities performed by the first network node or an occurrence time of each of the one or more anomalous activities performed by the first network node, and the second characteristic includes at least one of a recurring interval of the one or more anomalous activities performed by the first network node and an occurrence time of each of the one or more anomalous activities performed by the second network node.
11. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the first characteristic includes a data size of the first set of network data, and the second characteristic includes a data size of the second set of network data.
12. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the first characteristic includes a data type of the first set of network data, and the second characteristic includes a data type of the second set of network data.
13. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the first characteristic includes a destination point to which the first set of network data is transmitted, and the second characteristic includes a destination point to which the second set of network data is transmitted.
14. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further to communicate with a threat detection system to ascertain that the first network node is infected prior to collecting the first set of network data.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing program instructions for causing one or more processors to: identify a first one of a plurality of network nodes as infected; collect a first set of network data from the first network node including one or more anomalous activities performed by the first network node; generate an anomalous behavior model using the first set of network data; collect a second set of network data from a second one of the plurality of network nodes including one or more anomalous activities performed by the second network node; compare the second set of data to the generated anomalous behavior model; determine, from the comparison, that a similarity between a first characteristic associated with the one or more anomalous activities performed by the second network node and a second characteristic associated with the one or more anomalous activities performed by the first network node exceeds a predefined threshold; and ascertain, based on the determination, the second network node as an infected network node.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the program instructions further cause the one or more processors to: determine a first timestamp corresponding to when the first network node is identified as infected; and collect the first set of network data to include the one or more anomalous activities that each occurred at a timestamp substantially close to the first timestamp.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first characteristic includes at least one of a recurring interval of the one or more anomalous activities performed by the first network node or an occurrence time of each of the one or more anomalous activities performed by the first network node, and the second characteristic includes at least one of a recurring interval of the one or more anomalous activities performed by the first network node and an occurrence time of each of the one or more anomalous activities performed by the second network node.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first characteristic includes a data size of the first set of network data, and the second characteristic includes a data size of the second set of network data.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first characteristic includes a data type of the first set of network data, and the second characteristic includes a data type of the second set of network data.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first characteristic includes a destination point to which the first set of network data is transmitted, and the second characteristic includes a destination point to which the second set of network data is transmitted.
</claims>
</document>
