<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G10L15/16,G10L21/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROSSI, FRANCESCO
ACHANTA, Sivanand
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73550738
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICE TEXT TO SPEECH
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and processes for generating speech from text are provided. An example method of generating speech from text includes, at an electronic device having at least one processor and memory, obtaining text; generating a plurality of segments of a spectrogram using a first neural network, each spectrogram segment of the plurality of spectrogram segments representing a portion of the text; generating, based on the plurality of spectrogram segments, a plurality of speech segments using a second neural network; and providing the plurality of speech segments as a speech output.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, which when executed by one or more processors of a first electronic device, cause the first electronic device to: obtain text; generate a plurality of segments of a spectrogram using a first neural network, each spectrogram segment of the plurality of spectrogram segments representing a portion of the obtained text; generate, based on the plurality of spectrogram segments, a plurality of speech segments using a second neural network; and provide the plurality of speech segments as a speech output.
2. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the text is received from an external source.
3. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the text is a textual representation of a desired speech output.
4. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the one or more programs further comprise instructions, which when executed by one or more processors of a first electronic device, cause the first electronic device to: determine, using the first neural network, an order for the plurality of spectrogram segments.
5. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 4, wherein the order for the plurality of spectrogram segments is determined by processing the text using the first neural network prior to generating the plurality of spectrogram segments.
6. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 5, wherein each spectrogram segment of the plurality of spectrogram segments is generated in the determined order.
7. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the user device includes at least two processors and wherein the plurality of spectrogram segments are generated using a first processor of the at least two processors and the plurality of speech segments are generated using a second processor of the at least two processors.
8. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein the second processor is a neural network accelerator.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein a first weight associated with the first neural network is stored in a cache of the first processor of the at least two processors and a second weight associated with the second neural network is stored in a cache of the second processor of the at least two processors.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the plurality of spectrogram segments and the plurality of speech segments are generated at least partially in parallel.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein: generating the plurality of spectrogram segments using the first neural network further comprises generating a first spectrogram segment of the plurality of spectrogram segments; generating, based on the plurality of spectrogram segments, the plurality of speech segments using the second neural network further comprises generating, based on the first spectrogram segment, a first speech segment of the plurality of speech segments; and wherein generation of the first spectrogram segment and generation of the first speech segment at least partially overlap.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein generating based on the plurality of spectrogram segments, a plurality of speech segments using the second neural network further comprises: executing a set of tasks representing the functions of the second neural network to generate the plurality of speech segments.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein generating based on the plurality of spectrogram segments, a plurality of speech segments using the second neural network further comprises: determining a probability distribution for a second spectrogram segment of the plurality of spectrogram segments; and sampling the probability distribution for the second spectrogram segment to generate a second speech segment of the plurality of speech segments.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein sampling the probability distribution for the spectrogram segment to generate a speech segment of the plurality of speech segments further comprises: sampling the probability distribution to determine a first output; scaling the first output with a vector; and sampling the scaled first output to determine a second output, wherein the first output and the second output are dependent.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein sampling the probability distribution to determine a first output further comprises: determining a point in time at which a value of the probability distribution is higher than other values of the probability distribution; and selecting the point in time and the corresponding value as the first output.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the plurality of speech segments includes the first output and the second output.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein providing the plurality of speech segments as a speech output further comprises providing one or more speech segments of the plurality of speech segments concurrently as the one or more speech segments are generated.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the plurality of speech segments are generated in a predetermined order based on the text.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the first neural network is trained to generate the plurality of spectrogram segments using 16-bit calculations.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the second neural network is trained to generate the plurality of speech segments using 16-bit calculations.
21. An electronic device comprising: one or more processors; a memory; and one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including instructions for: obtaining text; generating a plurality of segments of a spectrogram using a first neural network, each spectrogram segment of the plurality of spectrogram segments representing a portion of the obtained text; generating, based on the plurality of spectrogram segments, a plurality of speech segments using a second neural network; and providing the plurality of speech segments as a speech output.
22. A method of producing speech from text, comprising: at a user device with at least one processor and memory: obtaining text; generating a plurality of segments of a spectrogram using a first neural network, each spectrogram segment of the plurality of spectrogram segments representing a portion of the text; generating, based on the plurality of spectrogram segments, a plurality of speech segments using a second neural network; and providing the plurality of speech segments as a speech output.
</claims>
</document>
