<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2011-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q50/00,H04L12/58,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SERENA, F. DAVID
CogNueva, Inc
</assignee>

<inventors>
SERENA, F. DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72663345
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SHARED VIDEO CONTENT EMPLOYING SOCIAL NETWORK GRAPH INFERENCE
</title>

<abstract>
A video content sharing network functions as an inferred digital social network. Consent is obtained from a plurality of users of at least one digital social network to participation in the video content sharing network. Information is automatically obtained from the digital social network for the users, through a plurality of respective communication channels, which can be application program interfaces or covert or subliminal channels. The information includes link information between each of the users and other individuals in the digital social network. Each of the users is enabled to share content including video content, to send and receive message information with other users, to view profile information of other users, and to view social contact information of other users, through the video content sharing network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer program embodied on at least one computer-readable storage medium having encoded thereon instructions for performing a method of sharing video content, comprising the steps of: obtaining knowing consent, from a plurality of users of at least one first digital social network, to participation in an operational computer-based video content sharing network, automatically obtaining, by computerized data mining logic implemented by a processor, information from the at least one first digital social network for the plurality of users of the at least one first digital social network, the information including, for each one of the plurality of users, link information between the one of the plurality of users of the at least one first digital social network and other individuals in the at least one first digital social network including individuals not directly connected to the one of the plurality of users, wherein the automatically obtained link information corresponds to individual views, for each of the plurality of users, of an overall graph structure of at least a neighborhood of the at least one first digital social network, the graph structure having nodes representing individuals in the at least one first digital social network and links representing connections between the individuals, storing the video content sharing network, and enabling access thereto, on at least one computerized digital data processing system, enabling digital social networking between the plurality of users, using a respective plurality of computerized digital data processing systems, within the video content sharing network, apart from the at least one first digital social network, by enabling shared video content within the video content sharing network between the plurality of users, and the video content sharing network using the automatically obtained link information to enable links to be formed between ones of the plurality of users and ones of the other individuals including the individuals not directly connected to the respective ones of the plurality of users.
2. The computer program of claim 1, wherein the video content sharing network corresponds to a graph having nodes representing the plurality of users and the other individuals, and having links between the nodes representing social relationships, and wherein the links between the ones of the plurality of users and the ones of the other individuals are formed within the video content sharing network.
3. The computer program of claim 2, wherein the links formed within the video content sharing network are formed apart from the information obtained from the at least one first digital social network with which the video content sharing network is linked, the links being formed between nodes of the graph of video content sharing network that represent ones of the users for whom content sharing is enabled within the video content sharing network with other ones of the users, such that the graph has a structure that changes state when the links are formed.
4. The computer program of claim 1, wherein the step of enabling digital social networking between the plurality of users further comprises enabling sending and receiving of text messages within the video content sharing network from one of the plurality of users of to at least another of the plurality of users.
5. The computer program of claim 4, wherein the step of enabling shared video content within the video content sharing network between the plurality of users comprises enabling sending and receiving of messages having stored video content.
6. The computer program of claim 1, wherein the step of enabling digital social networking between the plurality of users further comprises enabling ones of the plurality of users to view of profile information of other ones of the plurality of users within the video content sharing network.
7. The computer program of claim 1, wherein the step of enabling digital social networking between the plurality of users further comprises enabling ones of the plurality of users to view of contact information of other ones of the plurality of users within the video content sharing network.
8. The computer program of claim 1, wherein the at least one first digital social network comprises a plurality of digital social networks, and the step of automatically obtaining information from the at least one first digital social network for the plurality of users of the at least one first digital social network comprises automatically obtaining information from the plurality of digital social networks.
9. The computer program of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises at least one of the plurality of users to set a level of inference for the information to be obtained automatically from the at least one first digital social network.
10. A non-transitory computer program embodied on at least one computer-readable storage medium having encoded thereon instructions for performing a method of sharing video content, comprising the steps of: obtaining knowing consent, from a plurality of users of at least one first digital social network, to participation in an operational computer-based video content sharing network, automatically obtaining, by computerized data mining logic implemented by a processor, information from the at least one first digital social network for the plurality of users of the at least one first digital social network, the information including, for each one of the plurality of users, link information between the one of the plurality of users of the at least one first digital social network and other individuals in the at least one first digital social network including individuals not directly connected to the one of the plurality of users, wherein the automatically obtained link information corresponds to individual views, for each of the plurality of users, of an overall graph structure of at least a neighborhood of the at least one first digital social network, the graph structure having nodes representing individuals in the at least one first digital social network and links representing connections between the individuals, storing the video content sharing network, and enabling access thereto, on at least one computerized digital data processing system, obtaining knowing consent, from at least some of the other individuals in the at least one first digital social network with whom respective ones of the plurality of users are associated by the automatically obtained link information, to digital communication in the video content sharing network with the respective ones of the plurality of users, the consenting other individuals including individuals not directly connected to the respective ones of the plurality of users in the first digital social network, and enabling digital social networking between the plurality of users and the consenting other individuals, using a respective plurality of computerized digital data processing systems, within the video content sharing network, apart from the at least one first digital social network, by enabling shared video content within the video content sharing network between the plurality of users and the consenting other individuals.
11. The computer program of claim 10, wherein the video content sharing network uses the automatically obtained link information to enable links to be formed between ones of the plurality of users and ones of the other individuals including individuals not directly connected to the respective ones of the plurality of users.
12. The computer program of claim 11, wherein the links between the ones of the plurality of users and the ones of the other individuals are formed within the video content sharing network.
13. The computer program of claim 10 wherein the video content sharing network corresponds to a graph having nodes representing the plurality of users and the other individuals, and having links between the nodes representing social relationships, the method further comprising enabling links within the video content sharing network to be formed apart from the information obtained from the at least one first digital social network with which the video content sharing network is linked, the links being formed between nodes of the graph of video content sharing network that represent ones of the users for whom content sharing is enabled within the video content sharing network with other ones of the users, such that the graph has a structure that changes state when the links are formed.
14. The computer program of claim 10, wherein the step of enabling digital social networking between the plurality of users further comprises enabling sending and receiving of text messages within the video content sharing network from one of the plurality of users of to at least another of the plurality of users.
15. The computer program of claim 14, wherein the step of enabling shared video content within the video content sharing network between the plurality of users comprises enabling sending and receiving of messages having stored video content.
16. The computer program of claim 10, wherein the step of enabling digital social networking between the plurality of users further comprises enabling ones of the plurality of users to view of profile information of other ones of the plurality of users within the video content sharing network.
17. The computer program of claim 10, wherein the step of enabling digital social networking between the plurality of users further comprises enabling ones of the plurality of users to view of contact information of other ones of the plurality of users within the video content sharing network.
18. The computer program of claim 10, wherein the at least one first digital social network comprises a plurality of digital social networks, and the step of automatically obtaining information from the at least one first digital social network for the plurality of users of the at least one first digital social network comprises automatically obtaining information from the plurality of digital social networks.
19. The computer program of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises at least one of the plurality of users to set a level of inference for the information to be obtained automatically from the at least one first digital social network.
20. A non-transitory computer program embodied on at least one computer-readable storage medium having encoded thereon instructions for performing a method of operating a computer-based video content sharing network spanning a plurality of digital social networks, comprising the steps of: automatically obtaining, through computerized data mining logic implemented by at least one processor, online game state information of a computer-based online game from the plurality of digital social networks through a plurality of respective application communication channels spanned by the video content sharing network and across which the video content sharing network operates and is played simultaneously by players obtained from multiple social networks, receiving, through at least one computerized interface, input from at least one user of the video content sharing network in response to the state information obtained from the plurality of digital social networks, the user of the video content sharing network being a user of one of the plurality of digital social networks and the input being received through a respective one of the application communication channels across which the video content sharing network operates, in response to the input from the user of the video content sharing network, causing the video content sharing network to be executed upon the input from the user by peer-to-peer shared and concurrent execution of code of the online game on processing units of a plurality of computerized digital data processing systems hosting the plurality of digital social networks or clients of the plurality of digital social networks, by computing a change in state of the computer-based online game itself and producing other state information specifying the change in state of the computer-based online game itself, and causing the other state information to be provided to the plurality of digital social networks through the respective application communication channels, by a computerized interface, which the digital social networks cause to be communicated to users of the digital social networks who are players of the online game played across the plurality of digital social networks simultaneously, and enabling shared video content within the video content sharing network between the plurality of users of the digital social networks who are players of the online game played across the plurality of digital social networks simultaneously.
</claims>
</document>
