<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/60,G16H20/00,G16H50/20,G16H50/50,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Atos Spain SA
</assignee>

<inventors>
PEREZ PEREZ, Manuel Marcelino
CAVERO BARCA, Carlos
QUINTERO PADRON, Ana Maria
JORDAN RODRIGUEZ, Blanca
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61024549
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD OF USING MEDICAL DATA RELATED TO PATIENTS SUFFERING A GIVEN DISEASE
</title>

<abstract>
This invention relates to a method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, comprising: a phase of gathering (6) medical data related to patients suffering said given disease, from different hospital databases (65 to 68) storing under different data formats said medical data within non-anonymized files, a phase of storing, in a big data database (1), said gathered medical data, anonymized and in a single standardized format, a phase of using (7, 8) said big data database (1): by performing big data processing functions (21, 22) as well as by performing simple raw data extraction (23) from said big data database and direct visualization (24) of said extracted raw data, to generate one or more global rules governing categories of patients suffering said given disease as well as to improve personal medical care for a specific patient suffering said given disease.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, comprising: a phase of gathering (6) medical data related to patients suffering said given disease, from different hospital databases (65 to 68) storing under different data formats said medical data within non-anonymized files, a phase of storing, in a big data database (1), said gathered medical data, anonymized and in a single standardized format, a phase of using either of first or second modes (7, 8) each performing: a step of selection (23) of a category of patients, a step of treatment (21, 22, 23, 24) of said stored medical data related to said selected category of patients, a step of result generation, in said first mode (7), said patients category is a large population of patients at a given time, said treatment uses big data processing functions (21, 22), said generated result is one or more global rules governing said selected large population suffering said given disease, in said second mode (8), said patients category is a limited group of patients evolving over time, said treatment is mainly reduced to a simple raw data extraction (23) from said big data database (1) and to a direct visualization (24) of said extracted raw data, said generated result is improvement of personal medical care for a specific patient suffering said given disease, a large population of patients being at least 100 times larger than a limited group of patients, preferably at least 1000 times larger, more preferably at least 10000 times larger.
2. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, comprising: a phase of gathering (6) medical data related to patients suffering said given disease, from different hospital databases (65 to 68) storing under different data formats said medical data within non-anonymized files, a phase of storing, in a big data database (1), said gathered medical data, anonymized and in a single standardized format, a phase of using either of first or second modes (7, 8): said first mode (7), using big data processing functions (21, 22) over a large population of patients at a given time, to generate one or more global rules governing said large population of patients suffering said given disease, said second mode (8), being mainly reduced to a simple raw data extraction (23) from said big data database and to a direct visualization (24) of said extracted raw data, over a limited group of patients evolving over time, to generate an improvement of personal medical care for a specific patient suffering said given disease, a large population of patients being at least 100 times larger than a limited group of patients, preferably at least 1000 times larger, more preferably at least 10000 times larger.
3. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, comprising: a phase of gathering (6) medical data related to patients suffering said given disease, from different hospital databases (65 to 68) storing under different data formats said medical data within non-anonymized files, a phase of storing, in a big data database (1), said gathered medical data, anonymized and in a single standardized format, a phase of using (7, 8) said big data database (1): by using big data processing functions (21, 22) and/or by performing simple raw data extraction (23) from said big data database (1) and direct visualization (24) of said extracted raw data, over a large population of patients and/or over a limited group of patients, said large population being larger than said limited group of patients, at a given time and/or evolving over time, to generate one or more global rules governing categories of patients suffering said given disease and/or to improve personal medical care for a specific patient suffering said given disease.
4. (canceled)
5. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, according to claim 1, wherein: between said phase of gathering (6) and said phase of storing (1), there is a phase of transforming (3) said gathered medical data into a common and homogeneous model in which medical data from different sources are first transformed and later on stored under said single standardized format.
6. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, according to claim 1, wherein: said one or more global rules governing categories of patients suffering said given disease deal with determining one or more causes of said given disease, said categories corresponding to sub-groups among patients suffering said given disease.
7. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, according to claim 1, wherein: said direct visualization (24) of said extracted raw data improves a diagnosis dedicated to specific patient suffering said given disease performed by a medical expert thereby improving personal medical care for said specific patient suffering said given disease.
8. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, according to claim 1, wherein: performing big data processing functions (21, 22) include performing big data mining services (21), preferably based on an artificial intelligence core, and/or performing genomics data analytics (22), preferably based on a machine learning code.
9. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, according to claim 1, wherein: access to said first mode (7) will be restricted to a first category of users which are researchers (41), access to said second mode (8) will be restricted to a second category of users which are clinicians (42), a same person may belong to both said first and second categories.
10. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, according to claim 1, wherein: said different data formats from said different hospital databases (65 to 68) are specific and/or proprietary Electronic Health Record formats.
11. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, according to claim 1, wherein: there is a third category of users who are patients (43) and who can access neither first mode (7) nor second mode (8) but who can access a third mode (10) by: consulting publications (26) made by users of said first mode (7), and/or providing feedback (26) to the big data database (1) based on their own experience.
12. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, according to claim 1, wherein: there is an administrator (44) who gives users access to said first mode (7) and/or to said second mode (8) and/or to said third mode (10), depending on their respective status of researcher (41) and/or clinician (42) and/or patient (43).
13. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, according to claim 1, wherein: said gathered medical data not only integrate medical data as such but also metadata related to said medical data.
14. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, according to claim 1, wherein: said big data processing functions (21, 22) include big data mining services (21) which include one or more preprocessing functions and/or one or more feature selection functions and/or one or more feature creation functions and/or one or more clustering functions and/or one or more prediction analysis functions and/or one or more association analysis functions and/or one or more prediction model creating functions and/or one or more scoring system creating functions and/or one or more multi parametric analysis functions and/or one or more machine learning functions, and/or wherein: said big data processing functions (21, 22) include genomics data analytics (22) which include one or more disease genomics roots identifying functions and/or one or more genomics data association pattern(s) analyzing functions and/or one or more genomics data association pattern(s) visualizing functions and/or one or more haplotype analysis functions and/or one or more association test(s) functions and/or one or more clustering functions and/or one or more prediction analysis functions and/or one or more association analysis functions, and/or wherein: said big data processing functions (21, 22) include data and results visualization functions which include one or more filtering functions and/or one or more clustering functions and/or one or more classifying functions and/or one or more custom cohort(s) iteratively building functions.
15. (canceled)
16. (canceled)
17. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, according to claim 1, wherein: said using phase (7, 8) includes one or more steps of communication between users allowing for real time suggestion sending (26) and/or real time question sending (26), and/or wherein said using phase (7, 8) includes one or more steps of regular reporting (26) about medical data use towards said different hospital databases (65 to 68).
18. (canceled)
19. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, according to claim 1, wherein: said using phase (7, 8) includes one or more social media analytics functions (25) displaying, into social media, public posts made by users of said big data database (1).
20. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, according to claim 15, wherein: said public posts are embedded within a platform integrated in said big data database (1).
21. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, according to claim 15, wherein: said public posts are made accessible via Facebook post and/or via Twitter post.
22. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, according to claim 1, wherein: said using phase (7, 8) includes one or more public health policies impact assessing functions which combine and/or match and/or model said results generated by said big data processing functions (21, 22) together with public health statistics data.
23. Method of using medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, according to claim 1, wherein: said big data database (1) is integrated in a secure cloud infrastructure.
24. Architecture of network managing medical data related to patients suffering a given disease, comprising: different hospital databases (65 to 68) storing under different data formats said medical data within nominative files, a gathering system (6) adapted to gather medical data related to patients suffering said given disease, from said different hospital databases (65 to 68), a big data database (1) adapted to store, said gathered medical data, anonymized and in a single standardized format, a processing system (2) adapted to process said big data database (1): by performing big data processing functions (21, 22) as well as by performing simple raw data extraction (23) from said big data database (1) and direct visualization (24) of said extracted raw data, to generate one or more global rules governing categories of patients suffering said given disease as well as to improve personal medical care for a specific patient suffering said given disease.
</claims>
</document>
