<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L1/00,H04L27/144,H04L5/00,H04W24/10,H04W88/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FRAUNHOFER
</assignee>

<inventors>
FROTZSCHER, ANDREAS
WETZKER, ULF
NEUHAUS, PRIYANKA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63998476
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONCEPT FOR THE ANALYSIS OF A RADIO COMMUNICATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein is the generation of a signal for an analysis of a communication network based on a first version of a radio signal transmitted from a first node of the radio communication system to a second node of the radio communication system received at a passive node by detecting deviations of the first version of the transmitted radio signal from a second version of the radio signal received at the second node, and generating the signal based on the deviations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Apparatus for generating a signal for an analysis of a radio communication system based on a first version of a radio signal transmitted from a first node of the radio communication system to a second node of the radio communication system received by a passive node, the apparatus comprising detector for detecting deviations of the first version of the transmitted radio signal from a second version of the radio signal received by the second node; generator for generating the signal based on the deviations.
2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the detector is configured to perform the detection by spectral analysis to acquire spectral information.
3. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the detector is configured to perform the detection by demodulation to acquire packet contents.
4. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the generator is configured such that the signal comprises an evaluation basis as a substitute for the second version for evaluating a communication between the first and the second node, and is configured to acquire the evaluation basis by modifying the first version of the transmitted radio signal based on the deviations and/or providing the same with additional information relating to the deviations.
5. Apparatus according to claim 4, further comprising a classifier for classifying the deviations to acquire a classification of the deviations, the generator being configured to use the classification of the deviations in the modification and/or the provision.
6. Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the classifier is configured to perform the classification by evaluating portions of the first version that are defective according to a forward error correction of the first version.
7. Apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the classification distinguishes between classes comprising one or more of the following classes: a packet received in the first version and missing in the second version, a packet received in the second version and missing in the first version, a frequency with which a packet is present in one of the first and second versions but not in the other one of the first and second versions, an allocation to one deviation reason of a number of deviation reasons.
8. Apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the generator is configured to subject, in the course of the modification, first portions of the first version that have been received incorrectly according to the deviations from the second version, to a correction.
9. Apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the generator is configured to transform, in the course of the correction, an incorrectly received packet in the first version by means of evaluating packets previously received correctly in the first version.
10. Apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the generator is configured to insert by interpolation, in the course of the modification of the first version, a reconstructed version of the second portion into the first version as a substitute for second portions of the first version that are missing with respect to the second version according to the deviations.
11. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the generator is configured to generate the reconstructed version of the second portion regardless of a correctness of payload data of the transmitted signal.
12. Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the generator is configured to temporally perform the insertion at times selected by predetermined rules to compensate for ambiguities in the times.
13. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the generator is configured such that the signal comprises an evaluation basis as a substitute for the second version for evaluating an observation position of the passive node and is configured to determine the evaluation of the observation position of the passive node based on the deviations.
14. Apparatus according to claim 1 that is configured to evaluate radio signals from more than one node of the radio communication network.
15. Apparatus according to claim 1 that is configured to evaluate first versions of the radio signal from more than one passive node.
16. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the detector is configured to detect, in the course of the detection, packets missing in the first version with respect to the second version and/or packets missing in the second version with respect to the first version by detecting omissions in sequence numbers in a sequence of packets in the first version, and/or by checking the sequence of packets in the first version for a protocol rule violation, and/or by evaluating acknowledgment messages in a radio signal from the second node to the first node.
17. Apparatus for evaluating communication between nodes of a radio communication system, comprising: an apparatus for generating a signal for an analysis of a radio communication system based on a first version of a radio signal transmitted from a first node of the radio communication system to a second node of the radio communication system received by a passive node in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 16; and performer for performing an evaluation of a communication between the first and the second node based on the signal.
18. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the apparatus comprises detector for detecting deviations of the first version of the transmitted radio signal from a second version of the radio signal received by the second node; and generator for generating the signal based on the deviations, wherein the generator is configured such that the signal comprises an evaluation basis as a substitute for the second version for evaluating a communication between the first and the second node, and is configured to acquire the evaluation basis by modifying the first version of the transmitted radio signal based on the deviations and/or providing the same with additional information relating to the deviations, and wherein the performer performs the evaluation such that the evaluation is insensitive to at least some deviations of the evaluation basis from the transmitted radio signal relating to payload data in the transmitted radio signal or less sensitive than to deviations relating to packet headers, and the modifier and/or provider is configured to subject, in the course of the modification of the first version, portions beyond the payload data of the first version that have been received incorrectly according to the deviations from the second version, to a correction.
19. Method for generating a signal for an analysis of a communication network based on a first version of a radio signal transmitted from a first node of the radio communications system to a second node of the radio communications system received at a passive node, comprising detecting deviations of the first version of the transmitted radio signal from a second version of the radio signal received at the second node; generating the signal based on the deviations.
20. A non-transitory digital storage medium having a computer program stored thereon to perform the method for generating a signal for an analysis of a communication network based on a first version of a radio signal transmitted from a first node of the radio communications system to a second node of the radio communications system received at a passive node, the method comprising detecting deviations of the first version of the transmitted radio signal from a second version of the radio signal received at the second node; generating the signal based on the deviations, when said computer program is run by a computer.
</claims>
</document>
