<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06Q40/02,G09B19/18,G09B7/077
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE TORONTO DOMINION BANK
The Toronto-Dominion Bank, Toronto, CANADA
</assignee>

<inventors>
GERVAIS, STEVEN
SARIR, NASIM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650610
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING STATUS INDICATIONS USING DYNAMICALLY-DEFINED UNITS
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method and related systems are disclosed. The method includes receiving records related to transfers for accounts. The transfers correspond to categories. Typical amounts of transfers corresponding to a particular category are identified. Based on the typical amounts of the transfers, units for the category are defined. A net outflow from accounts for the particular category for a portion of a defined period is identified based on the transfers corresponding to the particular category of transfers. The net outflow for the defined period is compared to an expected outflow for the entirety of the defined period for the particular category to determine a remaining expected outflow for the particular category for a remaining portion of the defined period. An indication is provided expressing the remaining expected outflow for the particular category using the units for the category. Example manners of providing the indication are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising: a processor; a communications module coupled to the processor; and a memory coupled to the processor and storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the computer system to: receive, using the communications module from one or more computing devices via a network, records related to a plurality of transfers for one or more accounts, the transfers corresponding to a plurality of categories and having associated amounts; identify one or more typical amounts of transfers corresponding to a particular category of the plurality of categories; define, based on the one or more typical amounts of transfers corresponding to the particular category, one or more units for the particular category; identify, based on the transfers corresponding to the particular category of transfers, a net outflow from the one or more accounts for the particular category for a portion of a defined period; compare the net outflow for the particular category for the portion of the defined period to an expected outflow for an entirety of the defined period for the particular category to determine a remaining expected outflow for the particular category for a remaining portion of the defined period; and provide an indication expressing the remaining expected outflow for the particular category for the remaining portion of the defined period in at least one of the one or more units for the particular category.
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein identifying one or more typical amounts of transfers corresponding to the particular category of the plurality of categories includes determining an average of the amounts of transfers corresponding to the particular category of the plurality of categories.
3. The computer system of claim 1, wherein identifying one or more typical amounts of transfers corresponding to the particular category of the plurality of categories includes performing a cluster analysis of amounts of transfers corresponding to the particular category of the plurality of categories.
4. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the particular category is one of a set of tracked categories.
5. The computer system of claim 1, wherein categories of the plurality of categories correspond to a plurality of merchant classes, wherein one or more of the records indicate merchant classes associated with transfers related to those records, and wherein identifying, based on the transfers corresponding to the particular category of the plurality of categories, the net outflow from the one or more accounts for the defined period for the particular category includes identifying records indicating merchant classes corresponding to the particular category.
6. The computer system of claim 1, wherein categories of the plurality of categories correspond to a plurality of merchants, wherein one or more of the records indicate merchants associated with transfers related to those records, and wherein identifying, based on the transfers corresponding to the particular category of the plurality of categories, the net outflow from the one or more accounts for the defined period for the particular category includes identifying records indicating merchants corresponding to the particular category.
7. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor further cause the computer system to: determine the expected outflow for the defined period for the particular category based on at least a net outflow for the particular category for an earlier period.
8. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor further cause the computer system to: receive an indication of user-input defining the expected outflow for the defined period for the particular category.
9. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the one or more units for the particular category correspond to typical purchases in the particular category.
10. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the purchases correspond to one or more of trips, meals, and visits.
11. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the defined period includes a user-specified budgeting period.
12. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, from one or more computing devices via a network, records related to a plurality of transfers for one or more accounts, the transfers corresponding to a plurality of categories and having associated amounts; identifying one or more typical amounts of transfers corresponding to a particular category of the plurality of categories; defining, based on the one or more typical amounts of transfers corresponding to the particular category, one or more units for the particular category; identifying, based on the transfers corresponding to the particular category of transfers, a net outflow from the one or more accounts for the particular category for a portion of a defined period; comparing the net outflow for the particular category for the portion of the defined period to an expected outflow for an entirety of the defined period for the particular category to determine a remaining expected outflow for the particular category for a remaining portion of the defined period; and providing an indication expressing the remaining expected outflow for the particular category for the remaining portion of the defined period in at least one of the one or more units for the particular category.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein identifying one or more typical amounts of transfers corresponding to the particular category of the plurality of categories includes determining an average of the amounts of transfers corresponding to the particular category of the plurality of categories.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein identifying one or more typical amounts of transfers corresponding to the particular category of the plurality of categories includes performing a cluster analysis of amounts of transfers corresponding to the particular category of the plurality of categories.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the one or more units for the particular category correspond to typical purchases in the particular category.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the purchases correspond to one or more of trips, meals, and visits.
17. A computer system comprising: a processor; a communications module coupled to the processor; an output module coupled to the processor; and a memory coupled to the processor and storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the computer system to: receive, using the communications module from a remote server system via a computer network, an indication expressing a remaining expected outflow for a particular category of a plurality of categories for a remaining portion of a defined period, the remaining expected outflow expressed in units defined based on one or more typical amounts of transfers in one or more accounts corresponding to the particular category and determined by comparing a net outflow from the one or more accounts for the particular category for an earlier portion of the defined period to an expected outflow for an entirety of the defined period; and present the indication using the output module.
18. The computer system of claim 17 further comprising an input module coupled to the processor, wherein the one or more units for the particular category correspond to typical purchases in the particular category, and wherein purchases in the particular category are initiated using a particular software application, and wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor further cause the computer system to: after presenting the indication, receive, using the input module, input related to the indication; and responsive to the input related to the indication, launch the software application.
19. The computer system of claim 17 wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor further cause the computer system to: receive an indication of user-input defining the expected outflow for the defined period for the particular category.
20. The computer system of claim 17 wherein the units correspond to typical purchases in the particular category.
</claims>
</document>
