<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06T7/00,G06T7/11,G06T7/60,G06T7/70,G16H30/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJIFILM
</assignee>

<inventors>
ICHINOSE, AKIMICHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67395879
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE PROCESSING APPARATUS, IMAGE PROCESSING METHOD, AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are an image processing apparatus, an image processing method, and a program that can collect high-quality correct answer data used for machine learning with a simple method. The image processing apparatus includes: a first extractor that extracts a measurement target region from a medical image, using a result of learning performed using correct answer data of the measurement target region; a measurement object determination unit that determines a measurement object used to measure the measurement target region; a measurement object correction unit that corrects the measurement object in response to a command from a user; and a measurement target region correction unit that corrects the measurement target region extracted by the first extractor, using a correction result of the measurement object. The first extractor performs learning using the measurement target region corrected by the measurement target region correction unit as correct answer data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image processing apparatus comprising: a first extractor that extracts a measurement target region from a medical image, using a result of learning performed using correct answer data of the measurement target region; a measurement object determination unit that determines a measurement object used to measure the measurement target region; a measurement object correction unit that corrects the measurement object in response to a command from a user; and a measurement target region correction unit that corrects the measurement target region extracted by the first extractor, using a correction result of the measurement object, wherein the first extractor performs learning using the measurement target region corrected by the measurement target region correction unit as correct answer data.
2. The image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the measurement target region correction unit comprises a second extractor that corrects the measurement target region according to the correction of the measurement object, using a result of learning the corrected measurement object and a correction result of the measurement target region corresponding to the correction of the measurement object.
3. The image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the measurement target region correction unit performs the correction of the measurement target region to change a region which is outside the corrected measurement object in the measurement target region to a non-measurement target region.
4. The image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the measurement target region correction unit performs the correction of the measurement target region to change a region which is inside the corrected measurement object in a non-measurement target region to the measurement target region.
5. The image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the measurement object determination unit determines a plurality of first line segments parallel to a first direction as the measurement objects and determines a position of one end of the measurement target region and a position of the other end of the measurement target region in a second direction orthogonal to the first direction as positions of the first line segments.
6. The image processing apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the measurement target region correction unit corrects a contour of the measurement target region, using a position of the measurement object corrected by the measurement object correction unit as the position of the one end or the position of the other end of the measurement target region in the second direction.
7. The image processing apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising: a measurement unit that measures the measurement target region, wherein the first extractor extracts a lung field region and a heart region as the measurement target regions, the measurement object determination unit determines a position of one end of the lung field region in the second direction, a position of the other end of the lung field region in the second direction, a position of one end of the heart region in the second direction, and a position of the other end of the heart region in the second direction as the positions of the first line segments, and the measurement unit measures a cardiothoracic ratio on the basis of the positions of the plurality of first line segments.
8. The image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first extractor extracts a first measurement target region and a second measurement target region, and in a case in which the first measurement target region after correction and the second measurement target region after correction overlap each other, the measurement target region correction unit corrects the second measurement target region according to a correction result of the first measurement target region.
9. The image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first extractor extracts a first measurement target region and a second measurement target region, and in a case in which the first measurement target region before correction and the second measurement target region before correction come into contact with each other or overlap each other, the measurement target region correction unit corrects the second measurement target region according to a correction result of the first measurement target region.
10. The image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the measurement object determination unit determines at least one of a second line segment which connects both ends of the measurement target region in a third direction or a third line segment which connects both ends of the measurement target region in a fourth direction intersecting the third direction as the measurement object.
11. The image processing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the measurement target region correction unit corrects a contour of the measurement target region, using a position of an end of the second line segment corrected by the measurement object correction unit as a position of one end or a position of the other end of the measurement target region in the third direction.
12. The image processing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the measurement target region correction unit corrects a contour of the measurement target region, using a position of an end of the third line segment corrected by the measurement object correction unit as a position of one end or a position of the other end of the measurement target region in the fourth direction.
13. The image processing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the measurement target region correction unit performs at least one of the correction of the measurement target region to change the measurement target region to the non-measurement target region or the correction of the measurement target region to change the a non-measurement target region to the measurement target region, according to at least one of the second line segment after correction or the third line segment after correction.
14. The image processing apparatus according to claim 10, further comprising: a measurement unit that measures the measurement target region, wherein the first extractor extracts a tumor region as the measurement target region, and the measurement unit measures an overall length of the tumor region in the third direction and an overall length of the tumor region in the fourth direction.
15. The image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the measurement target region correction unit enlarges or reduces the a contour of the measurement target region, on the basis of a ratio of a measurement value using the measurement object before correction and a measurement value using the measurement object after correction.
16. The image processing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a signal transmission unit that transmits a signal indicating the measurement object to a display device that displays the medical image.
17. An image processing method comprising: a first extraction step of extracting a measurement target region from a medical image, using a first extractor that has been trained with correct answer data of the measurement target region; a measurement object determination step of determining a measurement object used to measure the measurement target region; a measurement object correction step of correcting the measurement object in response to a command from a user; a measurement target region correction step of correcting an extraction result of the measurement target region, using a correction result of the measurement object; and a first learning step of training the first extractor, using a correction result of the measurement target region as correct answer data.
18. A non-transitory computer readable recording medium which stores commands that, when read by a computer, cause the computer to implement: a first extraction function of extracting a measurement target region from a medical image, using a first extractor that has been trained with correct answer data of the measurement target region; a measurement object determination function of determining a measurement object used to measure the measurement target region; a measurement object correction function of correcting the measurement object in response to a command from a user; a measurement target region correction function of correcting an extraction result of the measurement target region, using a correction result of the measurement object; and a first learning function of training the first extractor, using a correction result of the measurement target region as correct answer data.
</claims>
</document>
