<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L7/00,H04W56/00,H04W60/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LYTX
</assignee>

<inventors>
RICHARDSON, LARRY
PETER, BRENDAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72944749
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TIME SYNCHRONIZATION FOR SENSOR DATA RECORDING DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
A leader system for time synchronizing includes an interface and a processor. The interface is configured to receive a time standard. The processor is configured to determine whether a time jump is necessary in response to the time standard; and in response to determining that the time jump is necessary: 1) cause overwriting a sensor data buffer; 2) provide an indication to unregister one or more follower devices from a leader device; and 3) time jump a leader device time in response to the time standard.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: an interface configured to receive a time standard; and a processor configured to: determine whether a time jump is necessary in response to the time standard; and in response to determining that the time jump is necessary: cause overwriting a sensor data buffer; provide an indication to unregister one or more follower devices from a leader device; time jump a leader device time in response to the time standard.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to cause pausing of a collection of sensor data before the time jump and cause restarting the collection of the sensor data after the time jump.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the indication to unregister the one or more follower devices from the leader device comprises closing a network socket to which the one or more follower devices are connected.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive a registration request from the one or more follower devices.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the processor is further configured to: send a registration acknowledgement message in response to the registration request from the one or more follower devices, wherein the registration acknowledgement message includes a current leader device time.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine whether a follower device of the one or more follower devices from which the registration request is received is on a white list; in response to determining that the follower device from which the registration request is received is on the white list, send a registration acknowledgement message to the follower device determined to be on the white list, wherein the registration acknowledgement message includes a current leader device time.
7. A method, comprising: receiving a time standard; determining, using a processor, whether a time jump is necessary in response to the time standard; and in response to determining that the time jump is necessary: causing overwriting a sensor data buffer; providing an indication to unregister one or more follower devices from a leader device; and time jumping a leader device time in response to the time standard.
8. A computer program product, the computer program product being embodied in a non-transitory computer readable storage medium and comprising computer instructions for: receiving a time standard; determining, using a processor, whether a time jump is necessary in response to the time standard; and in response to determining that the time jump is necessary: causing overwriting a sensor data buffer; providing an indication to unregister one or more follower devices from a leader device; and time jumping a leader device time in response to the time standard.
9. A system, comprising: an interface configured to receive a time message from a leader device; and a processor configured to: determine whether a time jump is necessary in response to the time message; and in response to determining that the time jump is necessary: cause overwriting a sensor data buffer; time jump a follower device time.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the time message from the leader device includes a current leader device time and wherein the follower device time is time jumped to the current leader device time.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive an unregister indication from the leader device to unregister; and unregister from the leader device in response to the unregister indication.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein unregistering from the leader device comprises detecting when a network socket has been closed by the leader device.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to: provide a registration message to the leader device requesting registration.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the unregister indication comprises a detection of a network socket that has been closed by the leader device; provide a registration message to the leader device requesting registration, wherein the time message is obtained from a registration acknowledgement message sent by the leader device in response to the registration message.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to: provide a registration message to the leader device requesting registration.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive a registration acknowledgement message sent by the leader device in response to the registration message.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein determining whether the time jump is necessary in response to the registration acknowledgement message comprises comparing a current leader device time obtained from the registration acknowledgement message to a current follower device time.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein comparing the current leader device time to the current follower device time comprises: determining a time difference between the current leader device time and the current follower device time; and determining whether the time jump is necessary in response to the time difference exceeding a threshold value.
19. The system of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to restart the collection of the sensor data.
20. A method, comprising: receiving a time message from a leader device; and determining, using a processor, whether a time jump is necessary in response to the time message; and in response to determining that the time jump is necessary: causing overwriting a sensor data buffer; time jumping a follower device time.
21. A computer program product, the computer program product being embodied in a non-transitory computer readable storage medium and comprising computer instructions for: receiving a time message from a leader device; and determining, using a processor, whether a time jump is necessary in response to the time message; and in response to determining that the time jump is necessary: causing overwriting a sensor data buffer; time jumping a follower device time.
</claims>
</document>
