<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60N2/00,B60W40/08,G05D1/00,G06F21/32,G06K9/00,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COMPUTIME
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHU, CHUN KIT
CHAN, LEUNG YIN
CHOI, HUNG BUN
NG, YAU WAI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68000078
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Biometric Data Capturing and Analysis
</title>

<abstract>
A health condition of a person may be assessed from a thermal sensor signal. By increasing performance indices of a thermal camera (for example, resolution, frame rate, sensitivity), operation may be extended to identification verification, biometric data extraction and health condition analysis, and so forth. Prediction may be carried out by monitoring a time sequence of thermal images, and consequently early warning of the health condition may be provided. The apparatus may be used for, but not limited to, personalization of smart home devices through supervised and reinforcement learnings. The application of the apparatus may be, but not limited to, smart homes, smart buildings and smart vehicles, and so forth.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus supporting at least one smart device, the apparatus comprising: a smart device interface; a thermal sensor interface configured to obtain sensor information from a first thermal sensor; a processor for executing computer-executable instructions; a memory storing the computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the apparatus to perform: detecting, from the sensor information, a detected thermal signature of a detected user; when the detected user is a first user, obtaining a first profile corresponding to the first user, wherein the first profile comprises a first set of smart device parameters; and when the detected user is the first user, configuring, through the smart device interface, a smart device based on the first set of smart device parameters.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the memory storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor further cause the apparatus to perform: when the detected user is a second user, obtaining a second profile corresponding to the second user, wherein the second profile comprises a second set of smart device parameters and wherein the second set is different from the first set; and when the detected user is the second user, configuring, through the smart device interface, the smart device based on the second set of smart device parameters.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the memory storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor further cause the apparatus to perform: training to detect a first thermal signature of the first user and a second thermal signature of the second user; and in response to the training, distinguishing between the first user and the second user based on a received thermal signature.
4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the memory storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor further cause the apparatus to perform: when both the first user and the second user are detected, configuring the smart device on a compromised setting of first and second settings for the first and second users, respectively.
5. An apparatus supporting at least one smart application, the apparatus comprising: a thermal sensor interface configured to obtain sensor information about a person from a thermal sensor; a processor for executing computer-executable instructions; a memory storing the computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the apparatus to perform: when executing a first application, configuring the thermal sensor in accordance with a first set of sensor parameters; when the thermal sensor is configured with the first set of parameters, extracting biometric data from the sensor information; and when a first condition is detected from the biometric data, initiating a second application; and when executing the second application, configuring the thermal sensor in accordance with a second set of parameters, wherein the first and second sets differ by at least one parameter; and when the thermal sensor is configured with the second set of parameters, extracting the biometric data from the sensor information.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the memory storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor further cause the apparatus to perform: when executing the first application: when a second condition is detected from the biometric data, initiating a third application, wherein the second condition is different from the first condition.
7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the memory storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor further cause the apparatus to perform: when executing the first application: when the first condition is indicative that the person is experiencing an abnormal health event, generating a notification about the first condition.
8. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the memory storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor further cause the apparatus to perform: predicting an occurrence of a health event of the person based on the biometric data.
9. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the memory storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor further cause the apparatus to perform: determining a hazard level of an occurrence of a health event; and generating an action from a plurality of actions based on the hazard level.
10. A method for assessing a health condition of a vehicle driver, the method comprising: generating, by a thermal sensor, a continuous image signal that is reflected by the vehicle driver; extracting, by a processing unit from the continuous image signal, a first measurement for a first biometric characteristic of the vehicle driver; mapping the first measurement to a first health profile of a plurality of health profiles; and detecting whether the first health profile is indicative of a first abnormal health event.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: monitoring a heartbeat characteristic of the vehicle driver.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: detecting an irregularity from the heartbeat characteristic of the vehicle driver; and in response to the detecting, generating an alert about the irregularity.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: distinguishing a type of irregularity from a plurality of irregularities.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: storing data about the heartbeat characteristic.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising: when the first abnormal health event is detected, initiating, by the processing unit, a first action.
16. The method of claim 10, further comprising: extracting, by the processing unit, a second measurement for a second biometric characteristic of the vehicle driver; mapping the first measurement and the second measurement to a second health profile of the plurality of health profiles; detecting whether the second health profile is indicative of a second abnormal health event; and when the second abnormal health event is detected, initiating, by the processing unit, a second action.
17. The method of claim 10, further comprising: obtaining, from the thermal sensor, a thermal sensor signal; and extracting, by the processing unit, biometric data from the thermal sensor signal.
18. An apparatus providing an assessment of a vehicle driver of a vehicle, the apparatus comprising: a thermal sensor configured to receive continuous image sequence reflected by the vehicle driver; a processing unit for executing computer-executable instructions; a memory storing the computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processing unit cause the apparatus to perform: extracting, by the processing unit from an image signal, a first measurement for a first biometric characteristic of the vehicle driver; mapping the first measurement to a first health profile of a plurality of health profiles; detecting whether the first health profile is indicative of a first abnormal health event; and when the first abnormal health event is detected, initiating, by the processing unit, a first action.
19. The apparatus of claim 18 further comprising: a self-driving interface; and the memory storing the computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processing unit further cause the apparatus to perform: instructing, through the self-driving interface, the vehicle to drive to an appropriate destination.
20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the memory storing the computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processing unit further cause the apparatus to perform: extracting, by the processing unit, a second measurement for a second biometric characteristic of the vehicle driver; mapping the first measurement and the second measurement to a second health profile of the plurality of health profiles; detecting whether the second health profile is indicative of a second abnormal health event; and when the second abnormal health event is detected, initiating, by the processing unit, a second action.
21. An apparatus supporting at least one smart application, the apparatus comprising: a thermal sensor interface configured to obtain sensor information from a thermal sensor array and configuring a thermal sensor in accordance with a most comprehensive set of sensor parameters for all applications; a processor for executing computer-executable instructions; a memory storing the computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the apparatus to perform: extracting biometric data about a person from the sensor information; executing a first application; executing a second application.
22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the memory storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor further cause the apparatus to perform: when executing the first application: when a second condition is detected from the biometric data about the person, initiating a third application, wherein the second condition is different from a previous condition about the person.
23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the memory storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor further cause the apparatus to perform: when executing the first application: when the previous condition is indicative that the person is experiencing an abnormal health event, generating a notification about the previous condition.
24. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the memory storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor further cause the apparatus to perform: predicting an occurrence of a health event of the person based on the biometric data.
25. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the memory storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor further cause the apparatus to perform: determining a hazard level of an occurrence of a health event; and generating an action from a plurality of actions based on the hazard level.
26. An apparatus supporting at least one smart application with more than one sensor to form a sensor array, the apparatus comprising: a first thermal sensor interface configured to obtain first sensor information about a person from a first thermal sensor; a second sensor interface configured to obtain second sensor information about the person from a second thermal sensor; a processor for executing computer-executable instructions; a memory storing the computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the apparatus to perform: configuring the first thermal sensor in accordance with a first set of sensor parameters; configuring the second thermal sensor in accordance with a second set of sensor parameters, wherein the first and second sets of sensor parameters are identical; extracting biometric data from sensor information from all the sensors; executing a first application; and executing a second application.
27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the memory storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor further cause the apparatus to perform: when executing the first application: when a second condition is detected from the biometric data, initiating a third application, wherein the second condition is different from a previous condition about the person.
28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the memory storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor further cause the apparatus to perform: when executing the first application: when the previous condition is indicative that the person is experiencing an abnormal health event, generating a notification about the previous condition.
29. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the memory storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor further cause the apparatus to perform: predicting an occurrence of a health event of the person based on the biometric data.
30. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the memory storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor further cause the apparatus to perform: determining a hazard level of an occurrence of a health event; and generating an action from a plurality of actions based on the hazard level.
</claims>
</document>
