<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60R1/00,G06T3/00,G06T3/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DABRAL, SHASHANK
Mueller, Martin Fritz
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650690
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENHANCED RENDERING OF SURROUND VIEW IMAGES
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus comprising a memory and one or more processing circuits is provided. The memory stores a blend table having blend weights. The processing circuits, for partitions of the blend table: determine whether a subset of the pixels associated with the partition includes pixels associated with seamlines defined in a three-dimensional surface representation of the scene. If none of the subset of the pixels are associated with the seamlines, the processing circuits populate a region of the virtual image corresponding to the partition with pixel values from an image captured by one of the plurality of image capture devices. If one or more of the subsets of the pixels is associated with the seamlines, the processing circuits populate the region of the virtual image associated with the partition with blended pixel values from two or more images captured by two or more of the plurality of image capture devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: a memory that stores a blend table having blend weights for constructing a virtual image of a scene from pixels in images of the scene captured by a plurality of image capture devices; and one or more processing circuits coupled with the memory, wherein the one or more processing circuits are configured to, for one or more partitions of the blend table: determine, based on at least one of the blend weights in the partition, whether a subset of the pixels associated with the partition includes one or more pixels associated with one or more seamlines; in response to determining that none of the subset of the pixels are associated with the one or more seamlines, populate a region of the virtual image corresponding to the partition with pixel values from an image captured by one of the plurality of image capture devices; and in response to determining that one or more of the subsets of the pixels is associated with the one or more seamlines, populate the region of the virtual image associated with the partition with at least one blended pixel value comprising a blend of two or more pixel values from two or more images captured by two or more of the plurality of image capture devices.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each partition is rectangularly shaped and wherein the one or more seamlines are defined in a three-dimensional surface representation of the scene.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the virtual image is based upon a location, orientation, and field of view of a virtual image capture device.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the memory also stores a remapping transform definition, and wherein the one or more processing circuits are also configured to remap pixel values from one or more images captured by the plurality of image capture devices for population of the virtual image based at least in part on the remapping transform definition.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the blend table includes a plurality of cells, each cell includes a blend weight for each of the plurality of image capture devices.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each the one or more seamlines is associated viewing angles of two of the plurality of image capture devices.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one port coupled with the memory configured to receive images of the scene captured by the plurality of image capture devices.
8. A method comprising: storing, in a memory, a blend table having blend weights for constructing a virtual image of a scene from pixels in images of the scene captured by a plurality of image capture devices; and in one or more processing circuits, for one or more partitions of the blend table: determining, based on at least one of the blend weights in the partition, whether a subset of the pixels associated with the partition includes one or more pixels associated with one or more seamlines defined in a three-dimensional surface representation of the scene; in response to determining that none of the subset of the pixels are associated with the one or more seamlines, populating a region of the virtual image corresponding to the partition with pixel values from an image captured by one of the plurality of image capture devices; and in response to determining that one or more of the subset of the pixels is associated with the one or more seamlines, populating the region of the virtual image corresponding to the partition with at least one blended pixel value comprising a blend of two or more pixel values from two or more images captured by two or more of the plurality of image capture devices.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein: each partition is rectangularly shaped; and the one or more seamlines are defined in a three-dimensional surface representation of the scene.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the virtual image is based upon a location, orientation, and field of view of a virtual image capture device.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the memory also stores a remapping transform definition, and wherein the method further comprises: remapping pixel values from one or more images captured by the plurality of image capture devices for population of the virtual image based at least in part on the remapping transform definition.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the blend table includes a plurality of cells, each cell includes a blend weight for each of the plurality of image capture devices.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein each the one or more seamlines is associated viewing angles of two of the plurality of image capture devices.
14. The method of claim 8, a size of the virtual image is different than a size of the images captured by the plurality of image capture devices.
15. A method comprising: generating a three-dimensional surface representation of a scene from pixels in images of the scene captured by multiple image capture devices; defining one or more seamlines in the three-dimensional surface representation; identifying blend weights for the pixels based at least on a proximity of each of the pixels to the one or more seamlines; populating a blend table for a virtual image of the scene with the blend weights; and partitioning the blend table into a plurality of partitions based at least on a cost function having inputs comprising the blend weights of the pixels.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein each partition is rectangularly shaped.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the cost function is iteratively applied to the blend table until a minimal cost is determined, and includes a performance factor as an input.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein iteratively applying the cost function includes adjusting at least one of: a size of the partitions and a quantity of the partitions based on a weight associated with the performance factor.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the performance factor includes at least one of: quantity of seamlines per partition, bandwidth per partition, cycles per partition, tile mapping table storage size, direct memory access overhead, and boot time.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein at least one of the one or more seamlines has a finite width and the proximity of each of the pixels to the one or more seamlines is based on the width of the seamlines.
21. A view system comprising: a vehicle; a plurality of image capture devices mounted on the vehicle; a display screen mounted on the vehicle for viewing by an occupant of the vehicle; and an image processing system coupled to the plurality of image capture devices and the display screen, configured to: receive a plurality of image frames from a corresponding plurality of image capture devices; read, from a memory, a blend table having blend weights for constructing a virtual image of a scene from pixels in images of the scene captured by a plurality of image capture devices; for one or more partitions of the blend table: determining, based on at least one of the blend weights in the partition, whether a subset of the pixels associated with the partition includes one or more pixels associated with one or more seamlines defined in a three-dimensional surface representation of the scene; in response to determining that none of the subset of the pixels are associated with the one or more seamlines, populating a region of the virtual image corresponding to the partition with pixel values from an image captured by one of the plurality of image capture devices; and in response to determining that one or more of the subset of the pixels is associated with the one or more seamlines, populating the region of the virtual image corresponding to the partition with at least one blended pixel value comprising a blend of two or more pixel values from two or more images captured by two or more of the plurality of image capture devices; synthesize an output image for the display screen in accordance with the three-dimensional surface representation of the scene and the blend table; and provide the output image to the display screen.
</claims>
</document>
