<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RUBIKLOUD TECHNOLOGIES INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
AYOUB, WALEED
KENG, BRIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60783647
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DETERMINING OPTIMIZED CUSTOMER TOUCHPOINTS
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for determining optimized customer touchpoints are provided. The method includes assigning attributes to a set of marketing content for a set of customers; generating at least one initial score for the behavior of each of the customers in the set of customers; selecting a first subset of the marketing content for each of a first subset of the customers to receive for a first marketing campaign; receiving feedback data relating to the first subset of the marketing content; determining at least one adjusted score, from the at least one initial score, for at least some of the customers; and selecting a second subset of the marketing content for each of a second subset of the customers to receive based at least partially on the at least one adjusted score.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining optimized customer touchpoints on a computer system, the method comprising: assigning attributes to a set of marketing content for a set of customers; generating at least one initial score for the behavior of each of the customers in the set of customers using machine learning techniques based on the attributes; selecting a first subset of the marketing content for each of a first subset of the customers to receive based at least partially on the at least one initial score; receiving feedback data relating to the first subset of the marketing content; determining at least one adjusted score, from the at least one initial score, for at least some of the customers, using reinforcement learning on the feedback data; and selecting a second subset of the marketing content for each of a second subset of the customers to receive based at least partially on the at least one adjusted score.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the feedback data comprises customer behavioral data of at least a portion of the customers in the first subset of the customers.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving at least a portion of the attributes from a user.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning techniques utilize at least one of: a predictive response model for determining a probability that a particular customer in the set of customers responds to the marketing content; a predictive uplift model for determining a probability that a particular customer in the set of customers responds to the marketing content, who in the absence of such marketing content, would not have responded; a reactive churn model for determining a change in value over a selected period of time for each customer in the set of customers; and a predictive churn model for determining a change in value over multiple periods of time for each customer in the set of customers.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one initial score is generated using historical interaction data from the set of customers.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising assigning weightings to at least a portion of the attributes based on priority of a customer objective.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the reinforcement learning comprises an incremental reward structure.
8. The method of claim 8, wherein the reward structure is based on increments and decrements in customer sales.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the reinforcement learning comprises a weighted reward structure.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the feedback data, determining the at least one adjusted score, and selecting the second subset of the marketing content are performed repeatedly.
11. A system for determining optimized customer touchpoints, the system comprising one or more processors and a data storage device, the one or more processors configured to execute: an attributes module for assigning attributes to a set of marketing content for a set of customers; a data science module for generating at least one initial score for the behavior of each of the customers in the set of customers using machine learning techniques based on the attributes; a selection module for selecting a first subset of the marketing content for each of a first subset of the customers to receive based at least partially on the at least one initial score; and a feedback module for receiving feedback data relating to the first subset of the marketing content, the data science module further determines at least one adjusted score, from the at least one initial score, for at least some of the customers, using reinforcement learning on the feedback data, and the selection module further selects a second subset of the marketing content for each of a second subset of the customers to receive based at least partially on the at least one adjusted score.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the feedback data comprises customer behavioral data of at least a portion of the customers in the first subset of the customers.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the attributes module receives at least a portion of the attributes from a user via an input interface.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the data science module uses machine learning techniques that utilize at least one of: a predictive response model for determining a probability that a particular customer in the set of customers responds to the marketing content; a predictive uplift model for determining a probability that a particular customer in the set of customers responds to the marketing content, who in the absence of such marketing content, would not have responded; a reactive churn model for determining a change in value over a selected period of time for each customer in the set of customers; and a predictive churn model for determining a change in value over multiple periods of time for each customer in the set of customers.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one initial score is generated by the data science module using historical interaction data from the set of customers.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the attributes module assigns weightings to at least a portion of the attributes based on priority of a customer objective.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the reinforcement learning comprises an incremental reward structure.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the reward structure is based on increments and decrements in customer sales.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the reinforcement learning comprises a weighted reward structure.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the feedback module repeatedly receives new feedback data such that the data science module repeatedly adjusts the at least one adjusted score based on the new feedback data, and the selection module repeatedly selects the second subset of the marketing content based on the new at least one adjusted score.
</claims>
</document>
