<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60G17/015,B60G17/052,B60W10/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZOOX
</assignee>

<inventors>
EDREN, JOHANNES
MELKOTE, AHDITYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69883065
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTROLLING VEHICLE SUSPENSION SYSTEM USING PRESSURE SET POINT
</title>

<abstract>
A suspension system may include a pneumatic spring at each wheel of a vehicle. The suspension system may be configured to determine and achieve a pressure set point in each of the pneumatic springs and a target ride height at each wheel of the vehicle. The pressure set point may be determined based on a load at each of the wheels and the center of gravity of the vehicle, such that upon reaching the pressure set point at each in each of the pneumatic springs, a target load and target ride height may be achieved at each of the wheels of the vehicle. The system may also be used to level the ride height of the vehicle and/or achieve a desired orientation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicle comprising: a chassis; a first wheel; a first pneumatic spring coupled to the first wheel and the chassis; a first sensor configured to generate a first signal indicative of a current first ride height of the vehicle at the first wheel; a second wheel; a second pneumatic spring coupled to the second wheel and the chassis; a second sensor configured to generate a second signal indicative of a current second ride height of the vehicle at the second wheel; a pneumatic system in flow communication with the first pneumatic spring and the second pneumatic spring; and a suspension control system configured to: determine a current first pressure and a current second pressure; determine a target first ride height and a target second ride height; determine, based at least in part on the current first pressure, the current second pressure, the target first ride height, and the target second ride height, a first pressure set point for the first pneumatic spring and a second pressure set point for the second pneumatic spring; determine, based at least in part on the first pressure set point, the current first pressure, and a current first ride height, a first target pressure; determine, based at least in part on the second pressure set point, the current second pressure, and a second current ride height, a second target pressure; receive a signal from the first sensor and receive a signal from the second sensor; and adjust pressure in the first pneumatic spring and the second pneumatic spring to approach the first target pressure and the second target pressure.
2. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the suspension control system is configured to: identify, based at least in part on the current first pressure, the current second pressure, the target first ride height, and the target second ride height, a first spring curve associated with the first pneumatic spring and a second spring curve associated with the second pneumatic spring; and determine, based at least in part on the first spring curve and the second spring curve, the first target pressure and the second target pressure, respectively.
3. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the suspension control system is configured to cease adjusting pressure in the first pneumatic spring and the second pneumatic spring upon the first current pressure and the second current pressure approaching the first target pressure and the second target pressure, respectively.
4. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein one or more of (1) the first target pressure differs from the first pressure set point or (2) the second target pressure differs from the second pressure set point.
5. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the suspension control system is configured to determine the first pressure set point for the first pneumatic spring and the second pressure set point for the second pneumatic spring, based at least in part, on a first spring curve associated with the first pneumatic spring and a second spring curve associated with the second pneumatic spring, respectively, the first spring curve correlating pressure in the first pneumatic spring and a dimension related to ride height associated with the first pneumatic spring, and the second spring curve correlating pressure in the second pneumatic spring and a dimension associated with the second pneumatic spring.
6. A suspension control system comprising one or more processors configured to: determine a current pressure associated with a pneumatic spring; determine a target ride height associated with a dimension of the pneumatic spring; determine, based at least in part on the current pressure and the target first ride height, a pressure set point for the pneumatic spring; determine, based at least in part on the pressure set point and the current pressure, a target pressure; and adjust pressure in the pneumatic spring to approach the first target pressure, wherein adjusting the pressure in the pneumatic spring causes a current first ride height to approach the target first ride height.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: determine a location indicative of a center of gravity of a vehicle; and determine, based in part on the location indicative of the center of gravity of the vehicle, the target pressure.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the one or more processors are configured to receive a signal indicative of one or more of a roll or a pitch of the vehicle and determine the location indicative of the center of gravity based at least in part on the signal indicative of the one or more of the roll or pitch of the vehicle.
9. The system of claim 6, further comprising one or more of an accelerometer or an inertial measurement unit, and wherein the suspension control system is configured to receive a signal from one or more of the accelerometer or the inertial measurement unit and determine the one or more of the roll or pitch of the vehicle.
10. The system of claim 6, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: receive map data associated with a current location of a vehicle; and determine, based at least in part on the map data, one or more of the target first ride height or the first target pressure.
11. The system of claim 6, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: determine, based at least in part on the current first pressure, a current load distribution of a vehicle; determine a target load distribution of the vehicle that differs from the current load distribution of the vehicle; determine, based in part on the target load distribution, the target pressure; and adjust the pressure in the pneumatic spring to approach the target pressure and the target load distribution.
12. The system of claim 6, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: determine a change in a current ride height associated with a dimension of the pneumatic spring; determine, based in part on the change in the current ride height, the target ride height; and adjust the pressure in the pneumatic spring to approach the target pressure such that the current ride height approaches the target ride height.
13. The system of claim 6, wherein the one or more processors are configured to determine the pressure set point based at least in part on a spring curve of the pneumatic spring, the spring curve correlating pressure in the pneumatic spring and a dimension of the pneumatic spring.
14. A method for controlling a vehicle ride height, the method comprising: determining a load on a pneumatic spring at each wheel of a vehicle; determining a target ride height at each wheel of the vehicle; determining, based at least in part on the load on the pneumatic spring at each wheel of the vehicle and the target ride height at each wheel of the vehicle, a pressure set point for each pneumatic spring; determining, based at least in part on the pressure set point for each pneumatic spring and the target ride height at each wheel of the vehicle, a target pressure for each pneumatic spring; and adjusting pressure in each pneumatic spring to approach the target pressure for each pneumatic spring as a current ride height associated with each wheel of the vehicle approaches the target ride height at each wheel of the vehicle.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein determining the load on the pneumatic spring at each wheel of the vehicle comprises receiving a pressure signal from a pressure sensor in communication with each of the pneumatic springs.
16. The method of claim 14, further comprising determining a location indicative of a center of gravity of the vehicle, wherein determining the pressure set point for each of the pneumatic springs comprises determining the pressure set point based at least in part on the load on the pneumatic spring at each wheel of the vehicle and the location indicative of the center of gravity of the vehicle.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein determining the location indicative of the center of gravity of the vehicle comprises: determining one or more of a pitch of the vehicle or a roll of the vehicle; and determining the location indicative of the center of gravity of the vehicle based at least in part on the one or more of the load on the pneumatic spring at each wheel of the vehicle, the pitch of the vehicle, or the roll of the vehicle.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein determining one or more of the pitch of the vehicle or the roll of the vehicle comprises: receiving a signal from one or more of an accelerometer or an inertial measurement unit; and determining the one or more of the pitch of the vehicle or the roll of the vehicle based at least in part on the signal received from the one or more of an accelerometer or an inertial measurement unit.
19. The method of claim 14, wherein determining the pressure set point for each pneumatic spring comprises determining the pressure set point at each pneumatic spring, based at least in part on a spring curve of one or more of the pneumatic springs, wherein the spring curve correlates pressure in the pneumatic spring and a dimension of the pneumatic spring.
20. The method of claim 14, further comprising; receiving map data associated with a current location of the vehicle; and determining, based at least in part on the map data, one or more of the target ride heights or the target pressures.
</claims>
</document>
