<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q50/20,G09B5/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LE, QUYNN
</assignee>

<inventors>
DURANTE, MARK
LE, JR., QUYNN
TO, THINH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69884949
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING TUTORING AND MENTORING SERVICES
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for providing mentoring services includes receiving a mentoring request from a mentee. The mentoring request identifies areas or sub-areas of expertise or experience and logistical information. The system and method further include matching mentors to the mentoring request, ranking each of the matching mentors based on an aggregation of ratings, providing a list of mentors matching the mentoring request and the ranking to the mentee, receiving a selection of acceptable mentors from the mentee, sending a mentorship request to the acceptable mentors, receiving responses from the acceptable mentors, sending a list of the acceptable mentors providing an affirmative response to the mentee, receiving a selection of a mentor from the list of acceptable mentors providing an affirmative response from the mentee, and facilitating scheduling of mentoring between the mentee and the selected mentor. The ratings are based on previous feedback about each respective mentor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by a processor for coordinating mentoring, the method comprising: receiving a mentoring request from a mentee, the mentoring request identifying one or more areas or sub-areas of expertise or experience and logistical information; matching one or more mentors to the mentoring request based on the one or more areas or sub-areas of expertise or experience and the logistical information; ranking each of the one or more mentors matching the mentoring request based on an aggregation of ratings for each respective mentor, the ratings being based on previous feedback about each respective mentor received based on previous mentoring; providing a list of the one or more mentors matching the mentoring request and the ranking to the mentee; receiving a selection of one or more acceptable mentors from the list of the one or more mentors matching the mentoring request from the mentee; sending a mentorship request to each of the one or more acceptable mentors; receiving responses from one or more of the one or more acceptable mentors; sending a list of the one or more acceptable mentors providing an affirmative response to the mentee; receiving a selection of a mentor from the list of the one or more acceptable mentors providing an affirmative response from the mentee; and facilitating scheduling of mentoring between the mentee and the selected mentor.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving feedback from the mentee about the selected mentor after the mentoring.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising using the feedback to update a plurality of ratings of the selected mentor.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising weighting the plurality of ratings of the selected mentor based on feedback from the selected mentor about the mentee.
5. The method of claim 2, further comprising using the feedback to train a deep learning model used during the ranking.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving feedback from the selected mentor about the mentee after the mentoring.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the ratings for each respective mentor include a plurality of ratings selected from previous rating of the respective mentor by the mentee, an overall rating of the respective mentor, a rating of the respective mentor for mentorship of one or more areas or sub-areas of expertise or experience, or a rating of the respective mentor for mentoring mentees having a same learning style as the mentees.
8. A computing device comprising: a memory; and a processor coupled to the memory and configured to: receive a mentoring request from a mentee, the mentoring request identifying one or more areas or sub-areas of expertise or experience and logistical information; match one or more mentors to the mentoring request based on the one or more areas or sub-areas of expertise or experience and the logistical information; rank each of the one or more mentors matching the mentoring request based on an aggregation of ratings for each respective mentor, the ratings being based on previous feedback about each respective mentor received based on previous mentoring; provide a list of the one or more mentors matching the mentoring request and the ranking to the mentee; receive a selection of one or more acceptable mentors from the list of the one or more mentors matching the mentoring request from the mentee; send a mentorship request to each of the one or more acceptable mentors; receive responses from one or more of the one or more acceptable mentors; send a list of the one or more acceptable mentors providing an affirmative response to the mentee; receive a selection of a mentor from the list of the one or more acceptable mentors providing an affirmative response from the mentee; and facilitate scheduling of mentoring between the mentee and the selected mentor.
9. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to receive feedback from the mentee about the selected mentor after the mentoring.
10. The computing device of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to use the feedback to update a plurality of ratings of the selected mentor.
11. The computing device of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to weight the plurality of ratings of the selected mentor based on feedback from the selected mentor about the mentee.
12. The computing device of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to use the feedback to train a deep learning model used during the ranking.
13. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to receive feedback from the selected mentor about the mentee after the mentoring.
14. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the ratings for each respective mentor include a plurality of ratings selected from previous rating of the respective mentor by the mentee, an overall rating of the respective mentor, a rating of the respective mentor for mentorship of one or more areas or sub-areas of expertise or experience, or a rating of the respective mentor for mentoring mentees having a same learning style as the mentees.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable medium comprising a plurality of machine-readable instructions which when executed by one or more processors associated with computing device are adapted to cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising. receiving a mentoring request from a mentee, the mentoring request identifying one or more areas or sub-areas of expertise or experience and logistical information; matching one or more mentors to the mentoring request based on the one or more areas or sub-areas of expertise or experience and the logistical information; ranking each of the one or more mentors matching the mentoring request based on an aggregation of ratings for each respective mentor, the ratings being based on previous feedback about each respective mentor received based on previous mentoring; providing a list of the one or more mentors matching the mentoring request and the ranking to the mentee; receiving a selection of one or more acceptable mentors from the list of the one or more mentors matching the mentoring request from the mentee; sending a mentorship request to each of the one or more acceptable mentors; receiving responses from one or more of the one or more acceptable mentors; sending a list of the one or more acceptable mentors providing an affirmative response to the mentee; receiving a selection of a mentor from the list of the one or more acceptable mentors providing an affirmative response from the mentee; and facilitating scheduling of mentoring between the mentee and the selected mentor.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, further comprising receiving feedback from the mentee about the selected mentor after the mentoring.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, further comprising using the feedback to update a plurality of ratings of the selected mentor.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 17, further comprising weighting the plurality of ratings of the selected mentor based on feedback from the selected mentor about the mentee.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, further comprising using the feedback to train a deep learning model used during the ranking.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the ratings for each respective mentor include a plurality of ratings selected from previous rating of the respective mentor by the mentee, an overall rating of the respective mentor, a rating of the respective mentor for mentorship of one or more areas or sub-areas of expertise or experience, or a rating of the respective mentor for mentoring mentees having a same learning style as the mentees.
</claims>
</document>
