<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61M39/24,A61M5/14,A61M5/145,A61M5/168
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DEKA PRODUCTS LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAMEN, DEAN
LANGENFELD, CHRISTOPHER C.
Scott, James M.
Finnegan, Daniel B.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72087146
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS FOR MONITORING, REGULATING, OR CONTROLLING FLUID FLOW
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus, system and method for regulating fluid flow are disclosed. An apparatus for infusing fluid into a patient infusion apparatus includes a drip-chamber seat configured to receive a drip chamber; a tube seat configured to receive a tube fluidly coupled to the drip chamber, the tube including a plurality of conduits for fluid flow therethrough; a plunger configured to engage with the tube; and a user actuator configured to actuate the plunger.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An infusion apparatus, comprising: a drip-chamber seat configured to receive a drip chamber; a tube seat configured to receive a tube fluidly coupled to the drip chamber, the tube including a plurality of conduits for fluid flow therethrough; a plunger configured to engage with the tube; and a user actuator configured to actuate the plunger.
2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the user actuator is a knob.
3. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an indicator configured to indicate a position corresponding to a position of the plunger.
4. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an indicator wheel configured to indicate a position corresponding to a position of the plunger by displaying an indicator label viewable through a window of a housing of the infusion apparatus.
5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the tube seat includes a channel defining a path configured to position the tube, the tube seat having two receiving surfaces sloped inward toward the channel along a length of the channel.
6. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein each of the two receiving surfaces define a plane disposed parallel to an axis defined by the length of the channel.
7. The apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising at least one retaining flange protruding from a wall of the channel.
8. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising at least one retaining flange protruding from a wall of the tube seat.
9. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the drip-chamber seat includes a first shelf at an opening of a channel of the tube seat.
10. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the drip-chamber seat further includes a second shelf disposed a predetermined distance from the opening of the chancel of the tube seat.
11. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the drip-chamber seat includes at least one chamber-retaining flange.
12. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the at least one chamber-retaining flange protrudes toward the drip chamber.
13. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the user actuator is a knob having an internal threaded region, wherein an end of the plunger is disposed within the internal threaded region of the knob and defines complementary threads.
14. The apparatus according to claim 13, further comprising a housing having a slot, wherein the knob is disposed within the slot of the housing, wherein the slot is configured to allow the knob to rotate around a central axis of the knob.
15. The apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the knob is retained a predetermined distance from the channel.
16. The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein rotation of the knob actuates the plunger.
17. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a housing having a slot, wherein the user actuator is a knob disposed within the slot of the housing, wherein the slot is configured to allow the knob to rotate around a central axis of the knob.
18. The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the knob further comprises a knob gear disposed around a central axis of the knob configured to rotate with the knob.
19. The apparatus according to claim 18, further comprising a shaft disposed parallel to the central axis of the knob, wherein a first end of the shaft includes a first gear, wherein the first gear engages with the knob gear.
20. The apparatus according to claim 19, further comprising an indicator wheel, wherein a second end of the shaft includes a second gear configured to engage with an indicator-wheel gear disposed on the indicator wheel.
21. The apparatus according to claim 20, wherein the length of the shaft is disposed orthogonal to an axis defined by the length of the channel.
22. The apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the shaft is disposed at a side of the channel opposite to the two receiving surfaces.
23. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the infusion apparatus is a hand-actuated infusion apparatus.
24. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the infusion apparatus, is a hand-actuated, gravity-fed infusion pump.
25. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: the plurality conduits includes a first set of conduits and a second set of conduits, the first set of conduits is configured to occlude fluid flow when the plunger actuates against the plurality of conduits by a first predetermined amount, and the second set of conduits is configured to occlude fluid flow when the plunger actuates against the plurality of conduits by a second predetermined amount.
26. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: the plurality conduits includes a first set of conduits and a second set of conduits, the first set of conduits is configured to occlude fluid flow when a first force is applied orthogonally to a length of the first set of fluid conduits by a first predetermined amount, and the second set of conduits is configured to occlude fluid flow when a second force is applied orthogonally to a length of the second set of fluid conduits by a second predetermined amount, wherein the first and second forces are different from each other.
27. The apparatus according to claim 1, the drip-chamber seat comprising: a first shelf defined at an opening of a channel of the tube seat configured to receive a bottom of a drip chamber; a support member coupled to at least one of the first shelf and a housing of the apparatus; and a top cap coupler configured to configured to receive a top cap of the drip chamber.
28. The apparatus according to claim 27, wherein the top cap coupler include at least one recess configured to receive an arm of a top cap of a drip chamber.
29. The apparatus according to claim 28, wherein the actuator is a knob coupled to a shaft and configured to actuate along an axis of the shaft.
30. The apparatus according to claim 29, wherein the shaft is a threaded shaft.
31. The apparatus according to claim 30, further comprising a sled configured to receive the threaded shaft and engage sled complementary threads within the sled, wherein the sled is coupled to the plunger and is configured to actuate the plunger against the tube.
</claims>
</document>
