<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06F9/451
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZOOX
</assignee>

<inventors>
CALDWELL, TIMOTHY
GOGNA, RAVI
GOLDMAN, MEREDITH JAMES
RAMIREZ, FRANK REINALDO
ZHANG, RICK
Young, Matthew Miller
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71614967
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REMOTE VEHICLE GUIDANCE
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicle computing system may identify an obstruction along a route of travel and may connect to a service computing device for guidance. The service computing device may include a guidance system configured to receive waypoint and/or orientation input from an operator. The operator may evaluate the scenario and determine one or more waypoints and/or associated orientations for the vehicle to navigate the scenario. In some examples, the guidance system may validate the waypoint(s) and/or associated orientation(s). The service computing device may send the waypoint(s) and/or associated orientation(s) to the vehicle computing system. The vehicle computing system may validate the waypoint(s) and/or associated orientation(s) and, based on the validation, control the vehicle according to the input. Based on a determination that the vehicle has navigated the scenario, the guidance system may release vehicle guidance back to the vehicle computing system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, configure the system to: receive, from a vehicle computing system associated with a vehicle operating on a route, a request for guidance to navigate around an obstacle in an environment; receive sensor data associated with one or more sensors of the vehicle; determine that a condition for providing remote guidance is met; generate a signal configured to cause a display to output a representation of the vehicle and the obstacle on a user interface associated with the guidance system, the representation being based at least in part on the sensor data; receive, via the user interface, a first input comprising a first waypoint associated with a first position and a first orientation, wherein the first orientation comprises a first direction for the vehicle to face at the first waypoint; transmit the first waypoint to the vehicle computing system; receive, via the user interface, a second input comprising a second waypoint associated with a second position and a second orientation, wherein the second orientation comprises a second direction for the vehicle to face at the second waypoint; transmit the second waypoint to the vehicle computing system; determine that a terminating condition for providing guidance is met; and transmit an instruction to the vehicle computing system to control the vehicle autonomously.
2. The system as claim 1 recites, wherein the condition comprises at least one of: a latency corresponding to a connection with the vehicle computing system being below a threshold latency; a bandwidth corresponding to the connection with the vehicle computing system being below a threshold bandwidth; a velocity of the vehicle being below a threshold velocity; a number of sensors available to provide the sensor data is above a threshold number; or a determination that the vehicle does not comprise an associated health related fault.
3. The system as claim 1 recites, wherein the instructions further configure the system to: determine that the first position, the first orientation, the second position and the second orientation satisfy at least one of a safety protocol associated with operation of the vehicle or a remote guidance protocol, the remote guidance protocol comprising one or more limitations associated with vehicle movement while operating in a remote guidance mode; and validate the first position, the first orientation, the second position, and the second orientation based at least in part on satisfying the at least one of the safety protocol or the remote guidance protocol.
4. The system as claim 1 recites, wherein determining that the terminating condition for providing guidance is met comprises: determining that the second waypoint is within a threshold distance of the route; and determining, based at least in part on the threshold distance, that the obstacle is behind the vehicle.
5. The system as claim 1 recites, wherein the instructions configure the system to: determine that the vehicle is unable to proceed along the route to a destination; generate an updated route for vehicle guidance to the destination; and send the updated route to the vehicle computing system, wherein the instruction to proceed autonomously includes the updated route.
6. A method comprising: receiving, from a vehicle computing device associated with a vehicle, a request for guidance input for navigating around an obstacle; receiving, as received data and from the vehicle computing device, sensor data or data based at least in part on the sensor data; receiving, via a user interface associated with a guidance system, a first input corresponding to a first waypoint, the first input being based at least in part on the received data; sending first data associated with the first waypoint to the vehicle computing device; and causing the vehicle to be controlled based at least in part on the first waypoint.
7. The method as claim 6 recites, further comprising determining that a condition for providing remote guidance is satisfied, the condition comprising at least one of: a latency corresponding to a connection with the vehicle computing device being below a threshold latency; a bandwidth corresponding to the connection with the vehicle computing device being below a threshold bandwidth; a velocity of the vehicle being below a threshold velocity; a number of sensors available to provide the received data is equal to or greater than a threshold number; or a determination that the vehicle does not comprise an associated health related fault.
8. The method as claim 6 recites, further comprising: determining, at a first time, that a condition for providing remote guidance is satisfied; enabling inputs into the user interface based at least in part on the condition being satisfied; determining, at a second time, that the condition for providing remote guidance is not satisfied; and disabling the inputs into the user interface based at least in part on the condition not being satisfied.
9. The method as claim 6 recites, further comprising: determining that the first waypoint satisfies at least one of a safety protocol associated with operation of the vehicle or a remote guidance protocol, the remote guidance protocol comprising one or more limitations associated with vehicle movement while operating in a remote guidance mode; and validating the first waypoint based at least in part on satisfying the at least one of the safety protocol or the remote guidance protocol, wherein sending the first data is based at least in part on validating the first waypoint.
10. The method as claim 6 recites, further comprising: receiving a second input corresponding to a second waypoint; sending second data associated with the second waypoint to the vehicle computing device; and receiving a rejection message from the vehicle indicating rejection of the second waypoint based at least in part on at least one of a safety protocol or a remote guidance protocol corresponding to operation of the vehicle.
11. The method as claim 6 recites, wherein the first input comprises: a first location associated with the first waypoint, the first location corresponding to a selectable area of the user interface; and a first orientation corresponding to a first direction the vehicle will face at the first waypoint.
12. The method as claim 6 recites, further comprising: sending a hold signal to the vehicle, the hold signal causing the vehicle computing device to hold at a position; and sending a release signal to the vehicle, wherein the release signal comprises an instruction to the vehicle computing device to control the vehicle to the first waypoint.
13. The method as claim 6 recites, receiving a second input corresponding to a second waypoint; sending second data associated with the second waypoint to the vehicle computing device; determining that the second waypoint corresponds to a terminating condition associated with the obstacle; and sending an instruction to the vehicle computing device to autonomously control the vehicle after completing an operation associated with the second waypoint.
14. The method as claim 6 recites, further comprising: receiving a second input corresponding to a second waypoint; sending second data associated with the second waypoint to the vehicle computing device; receiving, via the user interface, a third input indicating an operator intention to edit at least one of the first waypoint or the second waypoint; determining that the vehicle is in transit to the first waypoint; disabling a first edit to the first waypoint; determining that at least one of the second waypoint has not been accepted by the vehicle computing device or the vehicle has not advanced beyond the first waypoint; enabling a second edit to the second waypoint; and sending an instruction to the vehicle computing device to at least one of delete or modify the second waypoint.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed, cause one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a vehicle computing device associated with a vehicle, a request for guidance input for navigating around an obstacle; receiving, as received data and from the vehicle computing device, sensor data or data based at least in part on the sensor data; receiving, via a user interface associated with a guidance system, a first input corresponding to a first waypoint, the first input being based at least in part on the received data; sending first data associated with the first waypoint to the vehicle computing device; and causing the vehicle to be controlled based at least in part on the first waypoint.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the operations further comprising: receiving, via the user interface, a second input indicating a command for the vehicle to stop; and sending an instruction to the vehicle computing device to stop at a location associated with a current location.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the operations further comprising: determining that the vehicle is stopped at a location; and sending an instruction to release the vehicle from a stopped position, wherein the vehicle may proceed forward based at least in part on the instruction.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the operations further comprising: receiving a second input corresponding to a second waypoint; sending second data associated with the second waypoint to the vehicle computing device; receiving, via the user interface, a third input indicating an operator intention to edit at least one of the first waypoint or the second waypoint; determining that the vehicle is in transit to the first waypoint; disabling a first edit to the first waypoint; determining that at least one of the second waypoint has not been accepted by the vehicle computing device or the vehicle has not advanced beyond the first waypoint; enabling a second edit to the second waypoint; and sending an instruction to the vehicle computing device to at least one of delete or modify the second waypoint.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the operations further comprising: receiving an indication that the vehicle is unable to proceed from a location; presenting, via the user interface, the indication that the vehicle is unable to proceed from the location; receiving, via the user interface, a second input corresponding to a second waypoint; and transmitting the second waypoint to the vehicle computing system.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the operations further comprising: determining that the first waypoint satisfies a kinematics check associated with vehicle control; and validating the first waypoint based at least in part on satisfying the kinematics check, wherein causing the vehicle to be controlled is based at least in part on validating the first waypoint.
</claims>
</document>
