<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N3/08,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OPTUM SERVICES (IRELAND)
</assignee>

<inventors>
KELLY, DAMIAN
ZHU, JULIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71731375
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR TIME-BASED ABNORMALITY IDENTIFICATION WITHIN UNIFORM DATASET
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments provide systems and methods for detecting data abnormalities within data sets relating to a particular agent and comprising both discrete and continuous data features by encoding the one or more discrete features and generating a sequential feature vector representative of both the encoded discrete features and the continuous features, reducing the dimensionality of the generated sequential feature vector to generate a reduced dimension behavioral vector, and comparing the reduced dimension behavioral vector against other reduced dimension behavioral vectors.
</abstract>

<claims>
That which is claimed:
1. A method for detecting data abnormalities within agent-specific datasets, the method comprising: receiving a plurality of agent-specific data sets, wherein each of the plurality of agent-specific data sets comprises (a) one or more continuous features for a given agent and (b) one or more discrete features for the given agent; encoding the one or more discrete features for the given agent into one or more discrete feature vectors for the given agent; constructing one or more sequential feature vectors for the given agent based at least in part on the one or more discrete feature vectors and one or more continuous feature vectors corresponding to the one or more continuous features; reducing dimensionality of one or more sequential feature vectors into one or more behavior vectors each corresponding to one of the one or more agents; identifying, based at least in part on a plurality of behavior vectors each corresponding to one of the plurality of agents, abnormal data characteristics within one or more behavior vectors; constructing an interface that displays a visual representation of one or more of the plurality of behavior vectors each corresponding to an agent; and transmitting the interface to a user device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein organization of one or more behavior vectors is determined using a supervised learning algorithm.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein organization of one or more behavior vectors is determined using an unsupervised learning algorithm.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more agents are grouped into a subset of the one or more agents based on a filter system.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the filter system groups one or more agents by industry type.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein encoding the one or more discrete features for the given agent comprises encoding the one or more discrete features via at least one of: fixed embeddings lookup, embeddings initialization and evolution during model training, target encoding, one-hot-encoding, or feature hashing.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein reducing dimensionality of the one or more sequential feature vectors comprises reducing the dimensionality of the one or more sequential feature vectors via a sequence encoder and an auto-encoder.
8. A system for detecting data abnormalities within agent specific datasets, the system comprising: one or more memory storage areas; and one or more processing entities configured to: receive a plurality of agent-specific data sets, wherein each of the plurality of agent-specific data sets comprises (a) one or more continuous features for a given agent and (b) one or more discrete features for the given agent; encode the one or more discrete features for the given agent into one or more discrete feature vectors for the given agent; construct one or more sequential feature vectors for the given agent based at least in part on the one or more discrete feature vectors and one or more continuous feature vectors corresponding to the one or more continuous features; reduce dimensionality of one or more sequential feature vectors into one or more behavior vectors each corresponding to one of the one or more agents; identify, based at least in part on a plurality of behavior vectors each corresponding to one of the plurality of agents, abnormal data characteristics within one or more behavior vectors; construct an interface that displays a visual representation of one or more of the plurality of behavior vectors each corresponding to an agent; and transmit the interface to a user device.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein organization of one or more behavior vectors is determined using a supervised learning algorithm.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein organization of one or more behavior vectors is determined using an unsupervised learning algorithm.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein one or more agents are grouped into a subset of the one or more agents based on a filter system.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the filter system groups one or more agents by industry type.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein encoding the one or more discrete features for the given agent comprises encoding the one or more discrete features via at least one of: fixed embeddings lookup, embeddings initialization and evolution during model training, target encoding, one-hot-encoding, or feature hashing.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein reducing dimensionality of the one or more sequential feature vectors comprises reducing the dimensionality of the one or more sequential feature vectors via a sequence encoder and an auto-encoder.
15. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable medium having computer program instructions stored therein, the computer program instructions when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: receive a plurality of agent-specific data sets, wherein each of the plurality of agent-specific data sets comprises (a) one or more continuous features for a given agent and (b) one or more discrete features for the given agent; encode the one or more discrete features for the given agent into one or more discrete feature vectors for the given agent; construct one or more sequential feature vectors for the given agent based at least in part on the one or more discrete feature vectors and one or more continuous feature vectors corresponding to the one or more continuous features; reduce dimensionality of one or more sequential feature vectors into one or more behavior vectors each corresponding to one of the one or more agents; identify, based at least in part on a plurality of behavior vectors each corresponding to one of the plurality of agents, abnormal data characteristics within one or more behavior vectors; construct an interface that displays a visual representation of one or more of the plurality of behavior vectors each corresponding to an agent; and transmit the interface to a user device.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein organization of one or more behavior vectors is determined using a supervised learning algorithm.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein organization of one or more behavior vectors is determined using an unsupervised learning algorithm.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein one or more agents are grouped into a subset of the one or more agents based on a filter system.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the filter system groups one or more agents by industry type.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein encoding the one or more discrete features for the given agent comprises encoding the one or more discrete features via at least one of: fixed embeddings lookup, embeddings initialization and evolution during model training, target encoding, one-hot-encoding, or feature hashing.
21. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein reducing dimensionality of the one or more sequential feature vectors comprises reducing the dimensionality of the one or more sequential feature vectors via a sequence encoder and an auto-encoder.
</claims>
</document>
