<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/10,G06F9/30,G11C5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RAYTHEON COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HANDLEY, JAMES W.
JAENISCH, HOLGER M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69941469
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ANOMALY DETECTION WITH REDUCED MEMORY OVERHEAD
</title>

<abstract>
A method can include identifying, by processing circuitry of a device, a row of rows and/or column of columns to which a first feature and a second feature of an input maps, comparing the identified row and/or column to a row run length encoding (RLE) in a memory of the device that indicates, for each row, whether one or more cells in the row include an input mapped thereto or a column RLE in a memory of the device that indicates, for each column, whether one or more cells in the column include an input mapped thereto, respectively, and determining the input data is anomalous in response to determining either the row RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped to the row to which the input maps, or the column RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped to the column to which the input maps.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: a memory including data indicating a cell size, a number of columns of cells, a number of rows of cells, a row run length encoding (RLE) that indicates, for each row, whether one or more cells in the row include an input mapped thereto and a column RLE that indicates, for each column, whether one or more cells in the column include an input mapped thereto; processing circuitry coupled to the memory, the processing circuitry being configured to: identify a row of the rows and/or column of the columns to which a first feature and a second feature of an input maps; compare the identified row and/or column to the row RLE or the column RLE, respectively; and determine the input data is anomalous in response to determining either (1) the row RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped to the row of the rows to which the input maps, or (2) the column RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped to the column of the columns to which the input maps.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to, in response to determining the input data is anomalous, (1) update the row RLE to indicate that an input is mapped thereto if it was determined the row RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped thereto or (2) update the column RLE to indicate that an input is mapped thereto if it was determined the column RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped thereto.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the processing circuitry is further to cause the row RLE and the column RLE to be written to a memory of another device.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further to group cells into groups based on their proximity and whether an input has been mapped thereto and wherein the memory includes data identifying one or more groups and data indicating minimum and maximum extents for both first and second features for each group.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the processing circuitry is further to: compare the identified row and column to the group extents to determine whether the identified row and column falls within a group of the one or more groups; and in response to determining the identified row and column do not fall within any groups of the one or more groups, determine the input data is anomalous.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein comparing the identified row and column to the group extents occurs before comparing the identified row and/or column to the row RLE or the column RLE, respectively.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the memory further includes data indicating a specific column RLE that indicates, for each column that includes one or more inputs mapped thereto, whether each cell of the column includes an input mapped thereto and wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to determine the input data is anomalous in response to determining either the specific column RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped to the cell to which the input maps.
8. A method for device behavior anomaly detection, the method comprising: identifying, by processing circuitry of a device, a row of rows and/or column of columns to which a first feature and a second feature of an input maps; comparing the identified row and/or column to a row run length encoding (RLE) in a memory of the device that indicates, for each row, whether one or more cells in the row include an input mapped thereto or a column RLE in a memory of the device that indicates, for each column, whether one or more cells in the column include an input mapped thereto, respectively; and determining the input data is anomalous in response to determining either (1) the row RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped to the row of the rows to which the input maps, or (2) the column RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped to the column of the columns to which the input maps.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising, in response to determining the input data is anomalous, (1) updating the row RLE in the memory to indicate that an input is mapped thereto if it was determined the row RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped thereto or (2) updating the column RLE in the memory to indicate that an input is mapped thereto if it was determined the column RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped thereto.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising causing the row RLE and the column RLE to be written to a memory of another device.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising grouping cells into groups based on their proximity and whether an input has been mapped thereto and wherein the memory includes data identifying one or more groups and data indicating minimum and maximum extents for both first and second features for each group.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: comparing the identified row and column to the group extents to determine whether the identified row and column falls within a group of the one or more groups; and in response to determining the identified row and column do not fall within any groups of the one or more groups, determining the input data is anomalous.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein comparing the identified row and column to the group extents occurs before comparing the identified row and/or column to the row RLE or the column RLE, respectively.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the memory further includes data indicating a specific column RLE that indicates, for each column that includes one or more inputs mapped thereto, whether each cell of the column includes an input mapped thereto and the method further comprises determining the input data is anomalous in response to determining either the specific column RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped to the cell to which the input maps.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable medium including instructions stored thereon that, when executed by a machine, cause the machine to perform operations comprising: identifying a row of rows and/or column of columns to which a first feature and a second feature of an input maps; comparing the identified row and/or column to a row run length encoding (RLE) in a memory of the device that indicates, for each row, whether one or more cells in the row include an input mapped thereto or a column RLE in a memory of the machine that indicates, for each column, whether one or more cells in the column include an input mapped thereto, respectively; and determining the input data is anomalous in response to determining either (1) the row RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped to the row of the rows to which the input maps, or (2) the column RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped to the column of the columns to which the input maps.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further include, in response to determining the input data is anomalous, (1) updating the row RLE in the memory to indicate that an input is mapped thereto if it was determined the row RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped thereto or (2) updating the column RLE in the memory to indicate that an input is mapped thereto if it was determined the column RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped thereto.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further include causing the row RLE and the column RLE to be written to a memory of another device.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein: the operations further include grouping cells into groups based on their proximity and whether an input has been mapped thereto; the memory includes data identifying one or more groups and data indicating minimum and maximum extents for both first and second features for each group; the operations further include comparing the identified row and column to the group extents to determine whether the identified row and column falls within a group of the one or more groups; and the operations further include, in response to determining the identified row and column do not fall within any groups of the one or more groups, determining the input data is anomalous.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein comparing the identified row and column to the group extents occurs before comparing the identified row and/or column to the row RLE or the column RLE, respectively.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the memory further includes data indicating a specific column RLE that indicates, for each column that includes one or more inputs mapped thereto, whether each cell of the column includes an input mapped thereto and wherein the operations further include determining the input data is anomalous in response to determining either the specific column RLE indicates that no inputs are mapped to the cell to which the input maps.
</claims>
</document>
