<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F16/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ATLASSIAN
ATLASSIAN
</assignee>

<inventors>
ESPONDA, SEBASTIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71097387
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE RESOLUTION OF MULTI-CONTEXT ACRONYMS
</title>

<abstract>
Technologies for creating a digital link between an acronym in an electronic document and a definition that is retrievable by an online system include receiving digital data that includes the acronym and a current usage context; where the acronym and the current usage context form an acronym-usage context pair; creating, as digital output in response to the digital data, a link between the acronym-usage context pair and the definition; where a similarity metric is used to select the definition from different stored definitions of the acronym; where the similarity metric is determined by computer program instructions mathematically comparing the current usage context to usage context data of at least one of the different stored definitions of the acronym; where the link is traversable to cause display of the definition on a display device in response to a display of the acronym on the display device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for creating a digital link between an acronym in an electronic document and a definition that is retrievable by an online system, the method comprising: receiving digital data that comprises the acronym and a current usage context; wherein the acronym and the current usage context form an acronym-usage context pair; creating, as digital output in response to the digital data, a link between the acronym-usage context pair and the definition; wherein a similarity metric is used to select the definition from different stored definitions of the acronym; wherein the similarity metric is determined by computer program instructions mathematically comparing the current usage context to usage context data of at least one of the different stored definitions of the acronym; wherein the link is traversable to cause display of the definition on a display device in response to a display of the acronym on the display device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the current usage context is created in response to a retrieval of at least two different stored definitions of the acronym.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the link is traversable to cause display of the definition on the display device in response to an interaction of an input device with a display of the electronic document.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the link is created in response to an automated scan of the electronic document that identifies the acronym.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the current usage context comprises at least any one or more of the following: author data, metadata associated with the electronic document, recency data associated with the electronic document.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the similarity metric is determined by computing a Euclidean distance between the current usage context and usage context data of a stored definition of the acronym.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic document is created using, the digital data is received from, and the definition is displayed in any one or more of the following: a content sharing system, a content collaboration system, a project management system, an issue tracking system.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is performed by a server computer that is coupled by a network to, receives the digital data from, and sends the definition over the network to, any one or more of the following: a content sharing system, a content collaboration system, a project management system, an issue tracking system.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the similarity metric is computed between the current usage context and the usage context data of each of the different stored definitions of the acronym, and the method comprises causing display of the different stored definitions of the acronym in a ranked order according to the similarity metric.
10. The method of claim 9, comprising storing the current usage context in a digital dictionary in association with the definition in response to digital input that indicates user approval of the definition.
11. One or more non-transitory storage media storing instructions which, when executed by one or more computing devices, cause the one or more computing devices to perform operations comprising: receiving digital data that comprises an acronym and a current usage context; wherein the acronym and the current usage context form an acronym-usage context pair; creating, as digital output in response to digital data, a link between the acronym-usage context pair and a definition; wherein a similarity metric is used to select the definition from different stored definitions of the acronym; wherein the similarity metric is determined by computer program instructions mathematically comparing the current usage context to usage context data of at least one of the different stored definitions of the acronym; wherein the link is traversable to cause display of the definition on a display device in response to a display of the acronym on the display device.
12. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 11, wherein the current usage context is created in response to a retrieval of at least two different stored definitions of the acronym.
13. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 11, wherein the link is traversable to cause display of the definition on the display device in response to an interaction of an input device with a display of the electronic document.
14. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 11, wherein the link is created in response to an automated scan of the electronic document that identifies the acronym.
15. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 11, wherein the current usage context comprises at least any one or more of the following: author data, metadata associated with the electronic document, recency data associated with the electronic document.
16. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 11, wherein the similarity metric is determined by computing a Euclidean distance between the current usage context and usage context data of a stored definition of the acronym.
17. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 11, wherein the electronic document is created using, the digital data is received from, and the definition is displayed in any one or more of the following: a content sharing system, a content collaboration system, a project management system, an issue tracking system.
18. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 11, wherein the instructions are performed by a server computer that is coupled by a network to, receives the digital data from, and sends the definition over the network to, any one or more of the following: a content sharing system, a content collaboration system, a project management system, an issue tracking system.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein the similarity metric is computed between the current usage context and the usage context data of each of the different stored definitions of the acronym, and the method comprises causing display of the different stored definitions of the acronym in a ranked order according to the similarity metric.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more computing devices, cause the one or more computing devices to perform operations comprising storing the current usage context in a digital dictionary in association with the definition in response to digital input that indicates user approval of the definition.
</claims>
</document>
