<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/16,G01C21/32,G05D1/00,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALVAREZ, IGNACIO J.
ELLI, MARIA SOLEDAD
FELIP LEON, JAVIER
GONZALEZ AGUIRRE, DAVID I.
TUREK, JAVIER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70551116
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ACCELERATION-BASED VECTOR FIELD MAPS
</title>

<abstract>
In an autonomous vehicle system, data received from one or more autonomous vehicles (AVs) can be aggregated to generate aggregated data. From this aggregated data, a vector-field map can be generated that includes a plurality of cells. Each of the cells can include a corresponding vector. The vector field map can be analyzed to identify one or more vectors of the plurality of cells that exceed one or more predetermined threshold values. The analysis can include a magnitude analysis and/or a frequency analysis. Based on the analysis, traffic and/or road conditions can be determined, which can provide prior knowledge about the driving behavior of other vehicles. Advantageously, aspects of the disclosure improve predictive motion models and enhance navigation algorithms.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A map generation system, comprising: a data aggregator configured to aggregate data received from one or more autonomous vehicles (AVs) to generate aggregated data; a vector-field generator configured to generate a vector-field map including a plurality of cells based on the aggregated data, each cell having a corresponding vector; and analyzer configured to: analyze the vector-field map to identify one or more vectors of the plurality of cells exceeding one or more predetermined threshold values; and generate an analyzed signal corresponding to the identified one or more vectors and provide the analyzed signal to the one or more AVs.
2. The map generation system of claim 1, wherein the data received from the one or more AVs is respective acceleration data of the one or more AVs.
3. The map generation system of claim 2, wherein the acceleration data of the one or more AVs includes corresponding time data and location data.
4. The map generation system of claim 1, wherein the data received from the one or more AVs is acceleration data detected by an inertial measurement sensor of the one or more AVs.
5. The map generation system of claim 1, wherein the data received from the one or more AVs comprises state estimation information and acceleration information.
6. The map generation system of claim 5, further comprising a standardization processor that is configured to standardize the acceleration information to generate standardized acceleration information, wherein the data aggregator is configured to aggregate state estimation information and the standardized acceleration information to generate the aggregated data.
7. The map generation system of claim 6, wherein the standardization processor is configured to perform a linear transform on the acceleration information to generate the standardized acceleration information.
8. The map generation system of claim 1, wherein the vector-field generator is configured to perform a mean filtering and/or a probabilistic filtering on the aggregated data to generate the vector-field map.
9. The map generation system of claim 1, wherein the one or more predetermined threshold values comprise a magnitude threshold value and/or a frequency threshold value.
10. The map generation system of claim 1, wherein the analyzer is configured to analyze a magnitude and/or a frequency of vectors of the vector-field map to identify the one or more vectors that exceeding a predetermined magnitude threshold value and/or frequency threshold value.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium with an executable computer program stored thereon, the program instructing a processor to: aggregate data received from one or more autonomous vehicles (AVs) to generate aggregated data; generate a vector-field map including a plurality of cells based on the aggregated data, each cell having a corresponding vector; analyze the vector-field map to identify one or more vectors of the plurality of cells exceeding one or more predetermined threshold values; and generate an analyzed signal corresponding to the identified one or more vectors and provide the analyzed signal in electronic form as a data file.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the data received from the one or more AVs is respective acceleration data of the one or more AVs.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the acceleration data of the one or more AVs includes corresponding time data and location data.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the data received from the one or more AVs is acceleration data detected by an inertial measurement sensor of the one or more AVs.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the data received from the one or more AVs comprises state estimation information and acceleration information.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the program further instructs the processor to standardize the acceleration information to generate standardized acceleration information, wherein the state estimation information and the standardized acceleration information are aggregated to generate the aggregated data.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein standardizing the acceleration information includes performing a linear transform on the acceleration information to generate the standardized acceleration information.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein generating the vector-field map includes performing a mean filtering and/or a probabilistic filtering on the aggregated data to generate the vector-field map.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the one or more predetermined threshold values comprise a magnitude threshold value and/or a frequency threshold value.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the analyzing the vector-field map comprises analyzing a magnitude and/or a frequency of vectors of the vector-field map to identify the one or more vectors that exceeding a predetermined magnitude threshold value and/or frequency threshold value.
21. An autonomous vehicle (AV), comprising: an inertial measurement sensor configured to detect acceleration data of the AV; a communication interface that is configured to: transmit the detected acceleration data to a map generation system; and receive, from the map generation system, a vector-field map that includes including a plurality of cells or vector-field map information determined from the vector-field map, the vector-field map being generated based on the detected acceleration data, wherein each cell has a corresponding vector; and a controller configured to control the AV based on the vector-field map or the information determined from the vector-field map.
22. The AV of claim 21, wherein the acceleration data includes corresponding time data and location data.
23. The AV of claim 21, wherein the communication interface is further configured to transmit state estimation information of the AV to the map generation system, wherein the vector-field map or the vector-field map information is generated based on the acceleration data and the state estimation information.
24. An autonomous vehicle system, comprising: one or more autonomous vehicles (AVs); and a map generation system that includes: a data aggregator configured to aggregate data received from the one or more AVs to generate aggregated data; a vector-field generator configured to generate a vector-field map including a plurality of cells based on the aggregated data, each cell having a corresponding vector; and analyzer configured to: analyze the vector-field map to identify one or more vectors of the plurality of cells exceeding one or more predetermined threshold values; and generate an analyzed signal corresponding to the identified one or more vectors and provide the analyzed signal to the one or more AVs.
25. The autonomous vehicle system of claim 24, wherein the one or more AVs each include an inertial measurement sensor configured to detect acceleration data, wherein the data received from the one or more AVs is the acceleration data detected by the inertial measurement sensor.
</claims>
</document>
