<document>

<filing_date>
2020-10-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VENTANA MEDICAL SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
Grimm, Oliver
Korski, Konstanty
Bredno, Joerg
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66379868
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS FOR CELL SHAPE ESTIMATION
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure is directed, among other things, to automated systems and methods for analyzing, storing, and/or retrieving information associated with biological objects including lymphocytes. In some embodiments, a shape metric is derived for each detected and segmented lymphocyte and the shape metric is stored along with other relevant data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for processing image analysis data derived from an image of a biological sample stained for a presence of at least one lymphocyte biomarker, the system comprising: (i) one or more processors, and (ii) at least one memory coupled to the one or more processors, the at least one memory to store computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to perform operations comprising: detecting lymphocytes in the image of the stained biological sample; identifying outlines of the detected lymphocytes by segmenting the detected lymphocytes from other cells within the image; deriving a shape metric based on the identified outlines of each of the detected lymphocytes; associating the derived shape metrics with location information for each of the detected lymphocytes; comparing a value of each of the derived shape metrics to a predetermined threshold value for the derived shape metric; and assigning a predictive cell motility label to each of the detected lymphocytes based on the comparison.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the shape metric is selected from the group consisting of a minor axis/major axis aspect ratio, an eccentricity parameter, a circularity parameter, a roundness parameter, and a solidity parameter.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the minor axis/major axis aspect ratio is derived by: (i) fitting an ellipse to the outline of each of the segmented lymphocytes; (ii) calculating a length of the fitted ellipse's minor axis and major axis; and (iii) calculating an aspect ratio between the calculated lengths of the minor and major axes.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising classifying each of the detected lymphocytes within a predefined area of the image.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the detected lymphocytes are classified as cytotoxic T-lymphocytes, regulatory T-cells, or T-helper cells.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the value of the derived shape metric is compared to a series of ranges of predetermined threshold values and wherein each detected lymphocyte is assigned one of a plurality of cell motility labels based on the comparison.
7. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions for estimating shapes of lymphocytes in a biological sample stained for at least a presence of the lymphocytes comprising: detecting lymphocytes in an image of the stained biological sample; identifying outlines of the detected lymphocytes by segmenting the detected lymphocytes from other cells within the image; deriving a shape metric based on the identified outlines of each of the detected lymphocytes; comparing a value of each of the derived shape metrics to a predetermined threshold value for the derived shape metric; and assigning a predictive cell motility label to each of the detected lymphocytes based on the comparison.
8. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the instructions further comprise associating the derived shape metrics for each of the detected lymphocytes with an x,y coordinate position of the detected lymphocyte from the image.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the shape metric is selected from the group consisting of a minor axis/major axis aspect ratio, an eccentricity parameter, a circularity parameter, a roundness parameter, and a solidity parameter.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the minor axis/major axis aspect ratio is derived by: (i) fitting an ellipse to the outline of each of the segmented lymphocytes; (ii) calculating a length of the fitted ellipse's minor axis and major axis; and (iii) calculating an aspect ratio between the calculated lengths of the minor and major axes.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the ellipse is fitted to the outline of each of the segmented lymphocytes by performing a Hough transform or a Randomized Hough Transform.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the value of the derived shape metric is compared to a series of ranges of predetermined threshold values and wherein each detected lymphocyte is assigned one of a plurality of cell motility labels based on the comparison.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the instructions further comprise generating a representational object for each detected lymphocyte and overlaying the representational objects onto the detected lymphocytes in the image.
14. A method of processing image analysis data derived from an image of a biological specimen stained for a presence of at least one lymphocyte biomarker, the method comprising: detecting lymphocytes in the image; computing a foreground segmentation mask based on the lymphocytes detected within the image; identifying outlines of the detected lymphocytes in the image by filtering the image with the computed foreground segmentation mask; deriving a shape metric for each of the detected lymphocytes based on the identified lymphocyte outlines; associating the derived shape metrics with location information for each of the detected lymphocytes; comparing a value of each of the derived shape metrics to a predetermined threshold value for the derived shape metric; and assigning a predictive cell motility label to each of the detected lymphocytes based on the comparison.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the shape metric is selected from the group consisting of a minor axis/major axis aspect ratio, an eccentricity parameter, a circularity parameter, a roundness parameter, and a solidity parameter.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the minor axis/major axis aspect ratio is derived by: (i) fitting an ellipse to the outline of each of the detected lymphocytes; (ii) calculating a length of the fitted ellipse's minor axis and major axis; and (iii) calculating an aspect ratio between the calculated lengths of the minor and major axes.
17. The method of claim 14, further comprising classifying each of the detected lymphocytes within a predefined area of the image.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the detected lymphocytes are classified as cytotoxic T-lymphocytes, regulatory T-cells, or T-helper cells.
19. The method of claim 14, wherein the value of the derived shape metric is compared to a series of ranges of predetermined threshold values and wherein each detected lymphocyte is assigned one of a plurality of cell motility labels based on the comparison.
20. The method of claim 14, further comprising generating a representational object for each detected lymphocyte and overlaying the representational objects onto the detected lymphocytes in the image.
</claims>
</document>
