<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/36,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TRIPLE WIN TECHNOLOGY(SHENZHEN) COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIN, KUO-HUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73796310
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER DEVICE AND METHOD FOR MONITORING AN OBJECT
</title>

<abstract>
A method for monitoring an object is provided. The method includes acquiring videos recorded by an imaging device of a vehicle and position of the vehicle, and storing the videos and the position into a database, and receiving a monitoring command from a terminal device, wherein the monitoring command comprising a dynamic monitoring command and/or a static monitoring command. The method further can obtain a search result by searching in the database according to the monitoring command and/or the static monitoring command and output the search result.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A monitoring method applicable in a computer device, the method comprising: acquiring videos recorded by an imaging device of a vehicle and a simultaneous position of the vehicle, and storing the videos and the position into a database; receiving a monitoring command from a terminal device, wherein the monitoring command comprising a dynamic monitoring command and/or a static monitoring command; obtaining a search result by searching in the database according to the monitoring command and/or the static monitoring command; and outputting the search result.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein acquiring videos recorded by an imaging device of a vehicle and position of the vehicle comprising: receiving the videos send by the imaging device of the vehicle; receiving the position of the vehicle send by a navigation device of the vehicle; extracting feature information from the videos, wherein the feature information comprising license plate number of at least one vehicle of the videos; and storing the videos, the extracted feature information, and the position of the vehicle into the database.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein extracting feature information from the videos comprising: searching for at least one key frame containing the feature information from the videos; and extracting the feature information from the at least one key frame.
4. The method according to claim 2, wherein the dynamic monitoring command comprising a license plate number of an object vehicle to be monitored and a driving track of the object vehicle, the static monitoring command comprising an object to be monitored and monitoring content of the object.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the method further comprising: searching for a license plate number of an object vehicle according to the dynamic monitoring command; searching for at least one video of the object vehicle having the license plate number; acquiring positions of the object vehicle of the at least one video; recording time information when the object vehicle appeared at the acquired positions; acquiring a driving track of the object vehicle by connecting the positions on a map according to the recorded time information; searching for an object imaging device which records a newly video shows the object vehicle based on a relational table, wherein the relational table comprising at least one video recorded by the imaging device and an identification number of the imaging device; acquiring a current video from the object imaging device; determining whether the current video shows the object vehicle; and outputting all the videos shows the object vehicle which record by the searched imaging device and the driving track when the current video shows the object vehicle.
6. The method according to claim 4, wherein the method further comprising: acquiring position of an object to be monitored according to the static monitoring command; searching for license plate numbers of vehicles within a preset range of the acquired position; acquiring videos recorded by imaging device of the vehicles according to the license plate numbers; recognizing the object to be monitored from the acquired videos; determining whether the object is normal by comparing a state of the recognized object with a first state of the object stored in the database; determining that the object is normal when the state of the recognized object is the same as the first state of the object; and determining that the object is abnormal when the state of the recognized object is different from the first state of the object.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprising: determining whether the terminal device corresponding to the monitoring command has a query authority; and sending a query failure notification to the terminal device when the terminal device does not have the query authority.
8. A computer device comprising: a storage device; at least one processor; and the storage device storing one or more programs that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: acquire videos recorded by an imaging device of a vehicle and a simultaneous position of the vehicle, and storing the videos and the position into a database; receive a monitoring command from a terminal device, wherein the monitoring command comprising a dynamic monitoring command and/or a static monitoring command; obtain a search result by searching in the database according to the monitoring command and/or the static monitoring command; and output the search result.
9. The computer device according to claim 8, wherein acquire videos recorded by an imaging device of a vehicle and position of the vehicle comprising: receive the videos send by the imaging device of the vehicle; receive the position of the vehicle send by a navigation device of the vehicle; extract feature information from the videos, wherein the feature information comprising license plate number of at least one vehicle of the videos; and store the videos, the extracted feature information, and the position of the vehicle into the database.
10. The computer device according to claim 9, wherein extract feature information from the videos comprising: search for at least one key frame containing the feature information from the videos; and extract the feature information from the at least one key frame.
11. The computer device according to claim 9, wherein the dynamic monitoring command comprising a license plate number of an object vehicle to be monitored and a driving track of the object vehicle, the static monitoring command comprising an object to be monitored and monitoring content of the object.
12. The computer device according to claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further caused to: search for a license plate number of an object vehicle according to the dynamic monitoring command; search for at least one video of the object vehicle having the license plate number; acquire positions of the object vehicle of the at least one video; record time information when the object vehicle appeared at the acquired positions; acquire a driving track of the object vehicle by connecting the positions on a map according to the recorded time information; search for an object imaging device which records a newly video shows the object vehicle based on a relational table, wherein the relational table comprising at least one video recorded by the imaging device and an identification number of the imaging device; acquire a current video from the object imaging device; determine whether the current video shows the object vehicle; and output all the videos shows the object vehicle which record by the searched imaging device and the driving track when the current video shows the object vehicle.
13. The computer device according to claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further caused to: acquire position of an object to be monitored according to the static monitoring command; search for license plate numbers of vehicles within a preset range of the acquired position; acquire videos recorded by imaging device of the vehicles according to the license plate numbers; recognize the object to be monitored from the acquired videos; determine whether the object is normal by comparing a state of the recognized object with a first state of the object stored in the database; determine that the object is normal when the state of the recognized object is the same as the first state of the object; and determine that the object is abnormal when the state of the recognized object is different from the first state of the object.
14. The computer device according to claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further caused to: determine whether the terminal device corresponding to the monitoring command has a query authority; and send a query failure notification to the terminal device when the terminal device does not have the query authority.
15. A non-transitory storage medium having stored thereon instructions that, when executed by a processor of a computer device, causes the processor to perform a monitoring method, the computer device comprising a battery, the method comprising: acquiring videos recorded by an imaging device of a vehicle and a simultaneous position of the vehicle, and storing the videos and the position into a database; receiving a monitoring command from a terminal device, wherein the monitoring command comprising a dynamic monitoring command and/or a static monitoring command; obtaining a search result by searching in the database according to the monitoring command and/or the static monitoring command; and outputting the search result.
16. The non-transitory storage medium according to claim 15, wherein acquiring videos recorded by an imaging device of a vehicle and position of the vehicle comprising: receiving the videos send by the imaging device of the vehicle; receiving the position of the vehicle send by a navigation device of the vehicle; extracting feature information from the videos, wherein the feature information comprising license plate number of at least one vehicle of the videos; and storing the videos, the extracted feature information, and the position of the vehicle into the database.
17. The non-transitory storage medium according to claim 16, wherein extracting feature information from the videos comprising: searching for at least one key frame containing the feature information from the videos; and extracting the feature information from the at least one key frame.
18. The non-transitory storage medium according to claim 16, wherein the dynamic monitoring command comprising a license plate number of an object vehicle to be monitored and a driving track of the object vehicle, the static monitoring command comprising an object to be monitored and monitoring content of the object.
19. The non-transitory storage medium according to claim 18, wherein the method further comprising: searching for a license plate number of an object vehicle according to the dynamic monitoring command; searching for at least one video of the object vehicle having the license plate number; acquiring positions of the object vehicle of the at least one video; recording time information when the object vehicle appeared at the acquired positions; acquiring a driving track of the object vehicle by connecting the positions on a map according to the recorded time information; searching for an object imaging device which records a newly video shows the object vehicle based on a relational table, wherein the relational table comprising at least one video recorded by the imaging device and an identification number of the imaging device; acquiring a current video from the object imaging device; determining whether the current video shows the object vehicle; and outputting all the videos shows the object vehicle which record by the searched imaging device and the driving track when the current video shows the object vehicle.
20. The non-transitory storage medium according to claim 18, wherein the method further comprising: acquiring position of an object to be monitored according to the static monitoring command; searching for license plate numbers of vehicles within a preset range of the acquired position; acquiring videos recorded by imaging device of the vehicles according to the license plate numbers; recognizing the object to be monitored from the acquired videos; determining whether the object is normal by comparing a state of the recognized object with a first state of the object stored in the database; determining that the object is normal when the state of the recognized object is the same as the first state of the object; and determining that the object is abnormal when the state of the recognized object is different from the first state of the object.
</claims>
</document>
