<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N21/458,H04N21/472,H04N21/478,H04N21/488
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROVI GUIDES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHOOP, DAVID D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69177251
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DISPLAYING NOTIFICATIONS OF ANTICIPATED DYNAMIC EVENTS ON A MEDIA PROGRESS INDICATOR
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for tracking the status of an anticipated dynamic event and displaying a corresponding notification icon on a media progress indicator. A media guidance application receives, from an application (e.g., Uber), a notification (e.g., "Driver Found") during consumption of a media asset (e.g., "Fast and Furious") and determines that an expected event without a fixed time of occurrence will happen (e.g., arrival of driver at user's location). The media guidance application determines an anticipated time of the expected event and generate a visual icon representing the expected event on the media asset's consumption progress indicator at the anticipated time relative to the consumption (e.g., 56-minute mark of the movie). As updated information (e.g., traffic, driver's route, etc.) is received, the media guidance application recalculates the anticipated time and shift the visual icon based on the new calculation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-50. (canceled)
51. A method for tracking status of a dynamic event and displaying a corresponding notification icon on a media progress indicator, the method comprising: receiving a notification, from an application, during consumption of a media asset; determining, based on the notification, an anticipated time of the expected event, wherein the expected event does not have a fixed time of occurrence; generating, for display on a progress indicator that indicates a consumed portion of the media asset, a dynamic notification icon at a first position, wherein the first position is indicative of the anticipated time of the expected event relative to the consumption of the media asset.
52. The method of claim 51, wherein determining the anticipated time of the expected event further comprises: determining a notification type of the notification; retrieving, from memory, a history of notifications of the determined notification type generated by the application; calculating, based on the history of notifications, an average time difference between a time when an initial notification was received and a time when a follow-up notification to the initial notification was received; and determining that the anticipated time of the expected event is a sum of the average time difference and a time when the first notification was received.
53. The method of claim 51, further comprising: determining an updated anticipated time of the expected event based on updated information associated with the expected event; comparing the anticipated time of the expected event and the updated anticipated time of the expected event; and in response to determining that the anticipated time of the expected event and the updated anticipated time of the expected event do not match, shifting the dynamic notification icon to a second position on the progress indicator, wherein the second position is indicative of the anticipated time of the expected event relative to the consumption of the media asset.
54. The method of claim 53, wherein determining the updated anticipated time of the expected event based on the updated information further comprises: determining that the updated information comprises expected route information; calculating an expected travel time to navigate a route specified by the expected route information; and determining that the updated anticipated time of the expected event is a sum of the expected travel time and a time when the updated information was received.
55. The method of claim 53, wherein determining the updated anticipated time of the expected event based on the updated information further comprises: determining that the updated information comprises a delay time value associated with an occurrence of the expected event; and determining that the updated anticipated time of the expected event is a sum of the anticipated time of the expected event and the delay time value.
56. The method of claim 51, further comprising: determining a start play time and an end play time for an important scene of the media asset; determining that the second position of the dynamic notification icon is at the start play time or between the start play time and the end play time; in response to determining that the second position of the dynamic notification icon is at the start play time or between the start play time and the end play time, determining a time difference between the second position and the end play time; and sending a request to the application to delay the expected event by the time difference.
57. The method of claim 56, further comprising: in response to receiving, from the application, an acknowledgment of the request to delay the expected event by the time difference, shifting the dynamic notification icon on the progress indicator from the second position to the end play time.
58. The method of claim 51, further comprising: receiving a trick play command to pause consumption of the media asset; in response to pausing consumption, calculating a pause time value based on an amount of time the media asset was paused; and shifting the dynamic notification icon on the progress indicator to a third position, wherein the third position precedes the second position by the pause time value.
59. The method of claim 51, further comprising: determining a time difference between a first play position of the media asset and the first position; generating for consumption a different media asset starting at a second play position; and generating, for display on a new progress indicator associated with consumption of the different media asset, the dynamic notification icon at a third position, wherein the second play position precedes the third position by the time difference.
60. The method of claim 51, further comprising: generating for display a play position icon at a second position of the progress indicator, wherein the second position corresponds to a current consumption progress within the media asset.
61. A system for tracking status of a dynamic event and displaying a corresponding notification icon on a media progress indicator, the system comprising control circuitry configured to: receive a notification, from an application, during consumption of a media asset; determine, based on the notification, an anticipated time of the expected event, wherein the expected event does not have a fixed time of occurrence; generate, for display on a progress indicator that indicates a consumed portion of the media asset, a dynamic notification icon at a first position, wherein the first position is indicative of the anticipated time of the expected event relative to the consumption of the media asset.
62. The system of claim 61, wherein the control circuitry is further configured, when determining the anticipated time of the expected event, to: determine a notification type of the notification; retrieve, from memory, a history of notifications of the determined notification type generated by the application; calculate, based on the history of notifications, an average time difference between a time when an initial notification was received and a time when a follow-up notification to the initial notification was received; and determine that the anticipated time of the expected event is a sum of the average time difference and a time when the first notification was received.
63. The system of claim 61, wherein the control circuitry is further configured to: determine an updated anticipated time of the expected event based on updated information associated with the expected event; compare the anticipated time of the expected event and the updated anticipated time of the expected event; and in response to determining that the anticipated time of the expected event and the updated anticipated time of the expected event do not match, shift the dynamic notification icon to a second position on the progress indicator, wherein the second position is indicative of the anticipated time of the expected event relative to the consumption of the media asset.
64. The system of claim 63, wherein the control circuitry is further configured, when determining the updated anticipated time of the expected event based on the updated information, to: determine that the updated information comprises expected route information; calculate an expected travel time to navigate a route specified by the expected route information; and determine that the updated anticipated time of the expected event is a sum of the expected travel time and a time when the updated information was received.
65. The system of claim 63, wherein the control circuitry is further configured, when determining the updated anticipated time of the expected event based on the updated information, to: determine that the updated information comprises a delay time value associated with an occurrence of the expected event; and determine that the updated anticipated time of the expected event is a sum of the anticipated time of the expected event and the delay time value.
66. The system of claim 61, wherein the control circuitry is further configured to: determine a start play time and an end play time for an important scene of the media asset; determine that the second position of the dynamic notification icon is at the start play time or between the start play time and the end play time; in response to determining that the second position of the dynamic notification icon is at the start play time or between the start play time and the end play time, determine a time difference between the second position and the end play time; and send a request to the application to delay the expected event by the time difference.
67. The system of claim 66, wherein the control circuitry is further configured to: in response to receiving, from the application, an acknowledgment of the request to delay the expected event by the time difference, shift the dynamic notification icon on the progress indicator from the second position to the end play time.
68. The system of claim 61, wherein the control circuitry is further configured to: receive a trick play command to pause consumption of the media asset; in response to pausing consumption, calculate a pause time value based on an amount of time the media asset was paused; and shift the dynamic notification icon on the progress indicator to a third position, wherein the third position precedes the second position by the pause time value.
69. The system of claim 61, wherein the control circuitry is further configured to: determine a time difference between a first play position of the media asset and the first position; generate for consumption a different media asset starting at a second play position; and generate, for display on a new progress indicator associated with consumption of the different media asset, the dynamic notification icon at a third position, wherein the second play position precedes the third position by the time difference.
70. The system of claim 61, wherein the control circuitry is further configured to: generate for display a play position icon at a second position of the progress indicator, wherein the second position corresponds to a current consumption progress within the media asset.
</claims>
</document>
