<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/20,H04L12/24,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
IYER, KRISHNA PICHUMANI
LU, WENYUAN
SU, LE
OUYANG, YE
RICE, STEVEN F.
BRAINARD, Garrison William
WOODS, Dwight Ellis
ABBAS, Khurram
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72832021
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR EVALUATING A USER EXPERIENCE IN A NETWORK BASED ON PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
</title>

<abstract>
A device may collect network performance data associated with a user equipment of a network. The network performance data may include information associated with a plurality of performance indicators of the network. The device may process information associated with a first portion of the plurality of performance indicators to determine a first performance category experience score, and information associated with a second portion of the plurality of performance indicators to determine a second performance category experience score. The device may process the first performance category experience score and the second performance category experience score to determine a network experience score. The device may determine whether the network experience score satisfies a threshold value. The device may perform one or more actions based on determining that the network experience score satisfies the threshold value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: collecting, by a device, network performance data associated with a user equipment of a network, wherein the network performance data associated with the user equipment of the network includes information associated with a plurality of performance indicators of the network, wherein the plurality of performance indicators are correlated to a user experience of a user of the user equipment, wherein a first portion of the plurality of performance indicators are associated with a first performance category and a second portion of the plurality of performance indicators are associated with a second performance category, wherein the first performance category and the second performance category relate to at least two of: an accessibility of service of the network, a retainability of service of the network, a mobility of the user equipment, an integrity of service of the network, or an availability of the network; processing, by the device: information associated with the first portion of the plurality of performance indicators to determine a first performance category experience score for the user, and information associated with the second portion of the plurality of performance indicators to determine a second performance category experience score for the user; processing, by the device, the first performance category experience score and the second performance category experience score to determine a network experience score for the user; determining, by the device, whether the network experience score for the user satisfies a threshold value, wherein the network experience score satisfying the threshold value indicates an issue with the user experience of the user; and performing, by the device, one or more actions based on the determining to address the issue.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more actions include one or more of: transmitting a notification, to the user equipment, providing information relating to the issue, or transmitting a notification, to a customer support terminal associated with the network, providing information relating to the issue.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein a degree of correlation between a performance indicator of the plurality of performance indicators and the user experience is determined using a model.
4. The method of claim 1, where the threshold value is a first threshold value, wherein a performance indicator of the plurality of performance indicators is to be included in the plurality of performance indicators if a degree of correlation between the performance indicator and the user experience satisfies a second threshold value.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein a first performance indicator of the plurality of performance indicators is correlated to the user experience when the first performance indicator is correlated to a second performance indicator of an application of the user equipment.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the information associated with the first portion of the plurality of performance indicators and the information associated with the second portion of the plurality of performance indicators is performed with a first machine learning model, wherein processing the first performance category experience score and the second performance category experience score is performed with a second machine learning model.
7. (canceled)
8. A device, comprising: one or more memories; and one or more processors, communicatively coupled to the one or more memories, to: collect network performance data associated with a user equipment of a network, wherein the network performance data includes information associated with a plurality of performance indicators of the network, wherein the plurality of performance indicators are correlated to a user experience of a user of the user equipment, wherein a first portion of the plurality of performance indicators are associated with a first performance category and a second portion of the plurality of performance indicators are associated with a second performance category, wherein the first performance category and the second performance category relate to at least two of: an accessibility of service of the network, a retainability of service of the network, a mobility of the user equipment, an integrity of service of the network, or an availability of the network; process, with a first machine learning model: information associated with the first portion of the plurality of performance indicators to determine a first performance category experience score for the user, and information associated with the second portion of the plurality of performance indicators to determine a second performance category experience score for the user; process, with a second machine learning model, the first performance category experience score and the second performance category experience score to determine a network experience score for the user; determine whether the network experience score for the user satisfies a threshold value, wherein the network experience score satisfying the threshold value indicates a poor quality associated with the user experience of the user; and perform one or more actions based on determining that the network experience score for the user satisfies the threshold value to address the poor quality associated with the user experience.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors, when performing the one or more actions, are to perform one or more of: transmit a notification, to the user equipment, providing information relating to the poor quality associated with the user experience, transmit a notification, to a customer support terminal associated with the network, providing information relating to the poor quality associated with the user experience, or update at least one of the first machine learning model or the second machine learning model.
10. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors, when performing the one or more actions, are to: receive an update to the network experience score from the user to obtain an updated network experience score; and update at least one of the first machine learning model or the second machine learning model based on the updated network experience score.
11. The device of claim 8, wherein the first machine learning model is a convolutional neural network model and the second machine learning model is a feedforward neural network model.
12. The device of claim 8, wherein the user experience of the user relates to one or more of: a voice communication experience of the user, a data communication experience of the user, or a message service experience of the user.
13. The device of claim 8, wherein the information associated with the first portion of the plurality of performance indicators and the information associated with the second portion of the plurality of performance indicators are normalized using an area under a curve algorithm prior to being processed with the first machine learning model.
14. (canceled)
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions comprising: one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: collect network performance data associated with a user equipment of a network, wherein the network performance data includes information associated with a plurality of performance indicators of the network, wherein the plurality of performance indicators are correlated to a user experience of a user of the user equipment, wherein a first portion of the plurality of performance indicators are associated with a first performance category and a second portion of the plurality of performance indicators are associated with a second performance category, wherein the first performance category and the second performance category relate to at least two of: an accessibility of service of the network, a retainability of service of the network, a mobility of the user equipment, an integrity of service of the network, or an availability of the network; process, using a first model: information associated with the first portion of the plurality of performance indicators to determine a first performance category experience score for the user, and information associated with the second portion of the plurality of performance indicators to determine a second performance category experience score for the user; process, using a second model, the first performance category experience score and the second performance category experience score to determine a network experience score for the user; and update the first model or the second model based on the network experience score.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: determine whether the network experience score satisfies a threshold value, wherein the network experience score satisfying the threshold value indicates an issue with the user experience of the user; and transmit a notification, to the user equipment, providing information relating to the issue, transmit a notification, to a customer support terminal associated with the network, providing information relating to the issue, or cause the customer support terminal to generate a display relating to the issue.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: determine, for the user and based on a usage of the network by the user, a voice communication usage for the user and a data communication usage for the user, wherein the network experience score is determined based on the voice communication usage and the data communication usage.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first model is a convolutional neural network model, wherein the second model is a feedforward neural network model.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein both the first model and the second model are to be updated based on the network experience score.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: determine a voice communication experience score or a data communication experience score for the user based on the first performance category experience score and the second performance category experience score, wherein the network experience score is based on the voice communication experience score or the data communication experience score.
21. The method of claim 1, wherein the first portion of the performance indicators or the second portion of the performance indicators relates to voice over Long-Term Evolution (VoLTE) communications or voice over 5G (Vo5G) communications, and wherein the first portion of the performance indicators or the second portion of the performance indicators includes one or more of: a session establishment effectiveness ratio (SEER), a call drop rate, a call connection rate, or a call setup failure rate;
22. The device of claim 8, wherein the first portion of the performance indicators or the second portion of the performance indicators relates to Long-Term Evolution (VoLTE) communications or 5G communications, and wherein the first portion of the performance indicators or the second portion of the performance indicators includes one or more of: a data connection rate, a radio resource control (RRC) setup failure rate, an RRC drop rate, a packet data network (PDN) connection failure rate, or a context drop rate.
</claims>
</document>
