<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06T17/00,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOEING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SRIVASTAVA, ITI
SURIYAARACHCHI, RAVIENDRA SIDATH
Rennison, Benjamin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72747463
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED INSPECTION USING ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device includes at least one processor, at least one memory storing a model based definition (MBD) representing a model of a part, and an artificial intelligence (AI) client service. The AI client service, in response to execution by the at least one processor, is configured to receive inspection data corresponding to a cut part being fabricated based on the model of the part, compare the received inspection data to the MBD to determine any deviations of the cut part from the MBD, determine whether the cut part is defective based on the comparison, and update a digital thread corresponding to the part when the cut part is determined to be defective.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device comprising: at least one processor; at least one memory storing a model based definition (MBD) representing a model of a part; and an artificial intelligence (AI) client service that, in response to execution by the at least one processor, is configured to: receive inspection data corresponding to a cut part being fabricated based on the model of the part; compare the received inspection data to the MBD to determine any deviations of the cut part from the MBD; determine whether the cut part is defective based on the comparison; and update a digital thread corresponding to the part when the cut part is determined to be defective.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein updating the digital thread by the AI client service, in response to execution by the at least one processor, comprises revising a nesting script of the cut part.
3. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein updating the digital thread by the AI client service, in response to execution by the at least one processor, comprises instructing a cutting device to recut the cut part using new material.
4. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein updating the digital thread by the AI client service, in response to execution by the at least one processor, comprises instructing a cutting device to revise the cut part.
5. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein updating the digital thread by the AI client service, in response to execution by the at least one processor, comprises instructing a cutting device to revise the cut part in real time.
6. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the MBD is a master MBD of the part and updating the digital thread by the AI client service, in response to execution by the at least one processor, comprises revising at least one of a cutting script of the cut part, a nesting script of the cut part, a dedicated MBD of the cut part, a master cutting script of the part, a master nesting script of the part, or the master MBD.
7. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein updating the digital thread by the AI client service, in response to execution by the at least one processor, comprises communicating to a design entity at least one of information relating to the comparison of the inspection data to the MBD, the occurrence of defective parts over time, or information relating to past occurrences of defective parts.
8. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein updating the digital thread by the AI client service, in response to execution by the at least one processor, comprises at least one of storing information relating to the comparison of the inspection data to the MBD, tracking the occurrence of defective parts over time, or analyzing the occurrence of defective parts over time.
9. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the inspection data comprises at least one of a dimensional measurement, visual inspection data, or a weight.
10. A computerized method comprising: receiving a model based definition (MBD) representing a model of a part; receiving inspection data corresponding to a cut part being fabricated based on the model of the part; comparing the received inspection data to the MBD to determine any deviations of the cut part from the MBD; determining whether the cut part is defective based on the comparison; and updating a digital thread corresponding to the part when the cut part is determined to be defective.
11. The computerized method of claim 10, wherein updating the digital thread comprises revising a nesting script of the cut part.
12. The computerized method of claim 10, wherein updating the digital thread comprises at least one of instructing a cutting device to recut the cut part using new material or instructing the cutting device to revise the cut part.
13. The computerized method of claim 10, wherein the MBD is a master MBD of the part and updating the digital thread comprises revising at least one of a cutting script of the cut part, a nesting script of the cut part, a dedicated MBD of the cut part, a master cutting script of the part, a master nesting script of the part, or the master MBD.
14. The computerized method of claim 10, wherein updating the digital thread comprises communicating to a design entity at least one of information relating to the comparison of the inspection data to the MBD, the occurrence of defective parts over time, or information relating to past occurrences of defective parts.
15. The computerized method of claim 10, wherein updating the digital thread comprises at least one of storing information relating to the comparison of the inspection data to the MBD, tracking the occurrence of defective parts over time, or analyzing the occurrence of defective parts over time.
16. One or more computer storage media having computer-executable instructions for leveraging artificial intelligence (AI) that, in response to execution by a processor, cause the processor to at least: receive a model based definition (MBD) representing a model of a part; receive inspection data corresponding to a cut part being fabricated based on the model of the part; compare the received inspection data to the MBD to determine any deviations of the cut part from the MBD; determine whether the cut part is defective based on the comparison; and update a digital thread corresponding to the part when the cut part is determined to be defective.
17. The one or more computer storage media of claim 16, wherein updating the digital thread by the processor comprises at least one of instructing a cutting device to recut the cut part using new material or instructing the cutting device to revise the cut part.
18. The one or more computer storage media of claim 16, wherein the MBD is a master MBD of the part and updating the digital thread by the processor comprises revising at least one of a cutting script of the cut part, a nesting script of the cut part, a dedicated MBD of the cut part, a master cutting script of the part, a master nesting script of the part, or the master MBD.
19. The one or more computer storage media of claim 16, wherein updating the digital thread by the processor comprises communicating to a design entity at least one of information relating to the comparison of the inspection data to the MBD, the occurrence of defective parts over time, or information relating to past occurrences of defective parts.
20. The one or more computer storage media of claim 16, wherein updating the digital thread by the processor comprises at least one of storing information relating to the comparison of the inspection data to the MBD, tracking the occurrence of defective parts over time, or analyzing the occurrence of defective parts over time.
</claims>
</document>
