<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/36,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BMW (BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE)
</assignee>

<inventors>
TIAN, JILEI
CAO, YANG
QIAN, Longsheng
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73231137
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Adaptive Live Trip Prediction Solution
</title>

<abstract>
A system, method, and non-transitory computer-readable medium are provided for implementing adaptive live trip prediction in a vehicle of a user in real-time while the user uses the vehicle. In addition to predicting trip destinations based on historical trip data, the system uses a confidence measure of each of a plurality of known candidate destinations and a rejection strategy for rejecting candidate destinations as possible destinations based on real-time vehicle location information. When the system rejects all of the known candidate destinations and determines that the user's destination is an unknown or new destination, the system determines the location of the new destination be repeatedly determining an angle between a line from the original location to the current location and a north direction over time until the new destination can be accurately predicted. Further, the system is able to self-optimize the prediction performance without an explicit interaction with the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for adaptive live trip prediction of a destination of a vehicle comprising: receiving current location information of the vehicle at a first time; determining a distance of the vehicle from each of a plurality of known destinations at which the vehicle has been previously located based on patterns learned from stored trip data of the vehicle; determining a score value for each of the known destinations based on the distance of the vehicle from each of the known destinations at the first time, based on a previous distance of the vehicle from each of the known destinations at a previous time, and based on a predetermined weighting of each of the known destinations that is based on visit frequency; determining whether the destination is a new destination to which the vehicle has not previously gone based on the score values; and when it is determined that the vehicle is heading to the new destination, determining a location of the new destination based on changes in a heading angle of the vehicle over time.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising determining a confidence measure for each of the known destinations, indicating a likelihood of each of the known destinations being the destination of the vehicle, based on a change in distance between the vehicle and each of the known destinations.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the stored trip data includes previous location information of the vehicle at previous times.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein determining whether the destination is the new destination based on the score values includes determining a confidence measure for each of the known destinations, indicating a likelihood of each of the known destinations being the destination of the vehicle, based on a change in distance between the vehicle and each of the known destinations.
5. The method according to claim 4, further comprising determining whether each of the confidence measures is below a predetermined threshold.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein, when all of the confidence measures are below the predetermined threshold, a determination is made that the vehicle is heading to the new destination.
7. The method according to claim 6, further comprising outputting the location of the new destination to a user interface in the vehicle.
8. The method according to claim 7, further comprising outputting to the user interface at least one of information related to the location of the new destination and information related to a route to the new destination.
9. The method according to claim 1, further comprising outputting the location of the new destination to a user interface in the vehicle.
10. The method according to claim 9, further comprising outputting to the user interface at least one of information related to the location of the new destination and information related to a route to the new destination.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing a program for adaptive live trip prediction of a destination of a vehicle, which, when executed on a computer, causes the computer to: receive current location information of the vehicle at a first time; determine a distance of the vehicle from each of a plurality of known destinations at which the vehicle has been previously located based on stored trip data of the vehicle; determine a score value for each of the known destinations based on the distance of the vehicle from each of the known destinations at the first time, based on a previous distance of the vehicle from each of the known destinations at a previous time, and based on a predetermined weighting of each of the known destinations that is based on visit frequency; determine whether the destination is a new destination to which the vehicle has not previously gone based on the score values; and when it is determined that the vehicle is heading to the new destination, determine a location of the new destination based on changes in a heading angle of the vehicle over time.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 11, wherein the program further causes the computer to determine a confidence measure for each of the known destinations, indicating a likelihood of each of the known destinations being the destination of the vehicle, based on a change in distance between the vehicle and each of the known destinations.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 11, wherein the stored trip data includes previous location information of the vehicle at previous times.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 11, wherein determining whether the destination is the new destination based on the score values includes determining a confidence measure for each of the known destinations, indicating a likelihood of each of the known destinations being the destination of the vehicle, based on a change in distance between the vehicle and each of the known destinations.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 14, wherein the program further causes the computer to determine whether each of the confidence measures is below a predetermined threshold.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 15, wherein, when all of the confidence measures are below the predetermined threshold, a determination is made that the vehicle is heading to the new destination.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 16, wherein the program further causes the computer to output the location of the new destination to a user interface in the vehicle.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 17, wherein the program further causes the computer to output to the user interface at least one of information related to the location of the new destination and information related to a route to the new destination.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 11, wherein the program further causes the computer to output the location of the new destination to a user interface in the vehicle.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 19, wherein the program further causes the computer to output to the user interface at least one of information related to the location of the new destination and information related to a route to the new destination.
</claims>
</document>
