<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F8/65
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HPE (HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE)
</assignee>

<inventors>
AGARWAL, GOPAL
GUPTA, GOPAL
KUMAR, SUMIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71733716
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ACCESS POINT UPDATE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for seamless and automatic upgrade of access points in a facility with minimal disruption, particularly, for important users of a network. The access points may be ranked, and the rankings may be aggregated to identify a sub-region of the facility with the lowest ranked access points. Various sub-sets of the access points in the identified sub-region can be updated separately so that spatial coverage by the other sub-sets maintains continuous access within the sub-region during the updates. Updates to later sub-sets and/or sub-regions can be performed contingent on the success of the earlier updates. In this way, updates can be verified on access points used by lower-priority users such as guest users of the network to avoid disruption of access to more important users such as executives or safety workers on the network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: determining a ranking score for each of a plurality of access points distributed across at least two sub-regions of a facility; determining, based on a combination of the ranking scores for the access points physically located within a boundary of each of the at least two sub-regions, a sub-region ranking score for each sub-region; identifying, for a sub-region with a low sub-region ranking score, a plurality of sub-sets of the access points in that sub-region; determining, based on a combination of the ranking scores for the access points in each sub-set, a sub-set ranking score for each sub-set; identifying a sub-set associated with a low sub-set ranking score; and performing an update of the access points in the identified sub-set with the low sub-set ranking score.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the facility is one of an airport, an office building, a stadium, a shopping mall, a station, a park, a library, or a public wireless network access area.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the two sub-regions include a first floor and a second floor of the facility.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein determining the ranking score for each of the plurality of access points comprises determining the ranking score for each access point based on at least one of a location score, a user task score, a user role score, a user connection duration, a bandwidth score, and a traffic score associated with that access point.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein determining the ranking score for each of the plurality of access points comprises determining, for each access point, a weighted sum of the location score, the user task score, the user role score, the user connection duration, the bandwidth score, and the traffic score associated with that access point.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising determining a weight for each of the location score, the user task score, the user role score, the user connection duration, the bandwidth score, and the traffic score.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein determining each weight comprises using a machine-learning regression model.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the update is a firmware update or software update.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of sub-sets provides at least partially redundant spatial signal coverage to at least another one of the plurality of sub-sets.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of sub-sets provides at least partially redundant spatial signal coverage to all of the other sub-sets.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining whether the update of the access points of the identified sub-set with the low sub-set ranking score is a successful update.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising, if the update of the access points of the identified sub-set with the low sub-set ranking score is successful: identifying the sub-set with a higher sub-set ranking score of the sub-set ranking scores; and performing an update of the access points of the identified sub-set with the higher sub-set ranking score.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising, if the update of the access points of the identified sub-set with the low sub-set ranking score is not successful: performing an upgrade rollback for the identified sub-set with the low sub-set ranking score; and ceasing upgrade operations for the access points.
14. A computer-implemented method, comprising: determining a ranking score for each of a plurality of access points distributed within a facility, wherein the ranking score for each of the access points is based on a location score, a user task score, a user role score, a user connection duration, a bandwidth score, and a traffic score; and updating firmware of each of the access points in an order from the access point having a lowest ranking score to the access point having a highest ranking score.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, wherein determining the ranking score comprises determining a weighted sum of the location score, the user task score, the user role score, the user connection duration, the bandwidth score, and the traffic score.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, further comprising determining a weight for each of the location score, the user task score, the user role score, the user connection duration, the bandwidth score, and the traffic score.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein determining the weight comprises performing an ordinal regression operation.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein performing the ordinal regression operation comprises using a machine-learning regression model trained with training data associated with a plurality of access points distributed within a different facility.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, wherein the access point having the lowest ranking score is associated with a device of a guest of the facility, and wherein the access point having the highest ranking score is associated with a device of a chief executive officer for the facility.
20. A system, comprising: a memory storing instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to: determine a ranking score for each of a plurality of access points distributed across at least two sub-regions of a facility; determine, based on a combination of the ranking scores for the access points in each of the at least two sub-regions, a sub-region ranking score for each sub-region; identify, for the sub-region with a lowest sub-region ranking score of the sub-region ranking scores, a plurality of sub-sets of the access points in that sub-region; determine, based on a combination of the ranking scores for the access points in each sub-set, a sub-set ranking score for each sub-set; identify the sub-set with a lowest sub-set ranking score of the sub-set ranking scores; and perform an update of the access points of the identified sub-set with the lowest sub-set ranking score.
</claims>
</document>
