<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01C7/10,A01C7/12,A01C7/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CNH INDUSTRIAL CANADA
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOWALCHUK, TREVOR LAWRENCE
RAPLEY, ANTHONY, CHARLES
THOMPSON, DENNIS GEORGE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70159603
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MONITORING AN AGRICULTURAL METERING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A monitoring system for an agricultural metering system includes a processor configured to receive sensor data from one or more sensors positioned about the agricultural metering system. The processor is also configured to compare the sensor data to one or more thresholds to determine a condition of one or more drive units of the agricultural metering system. The processor is further configured to provide an output indicative of the condition of the one or more drive units of the agricultural metering system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A monitoring system for an agricultural metering system, comprising: a processor configured to: receive sensor data from one or more sensors positioned about the agricultural metering system; compare the sensor data to one or more thresholds to determine a condition of one or more drive units of the agricultural metering system; and provide an output indicative of the condition of the one or more drive units of the agricultural metering system.
2. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to receive the sensor data, determine the condition of the one or more drive units, and provide the output prior to complete failure of the one or more drive units and while the one or more drive units are capable of driving a meter roller of the agricultural metering system to deliver a material at a target application rate set by an operator.
3. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the agricultural metering system comprises: a meter roller configured to dispense a material from a storage tank into an air flow within a conduit; and a motor configured to drive rotation of the meter roller, wherein the one or more drive units of the agricultural metering system comprises the motor.
4. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the agricultural metering system comprises: a plurality of meter rollers each configured to dispense a material from a storage tank into an air flow within a respective conduit; and a plurality of motors each configured to drive rotation of one meter roller of the plurality of meter rollers, wherein the one or more drive units of the agricultural metering system comprises the plurality of motors, and the monitoring system is configured to separately monitor each motor of the plurality of motors.
5. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors comprise a current sensor, a voltage sensor, a temperature sensor, a torque sensor, or any combination thereof.
6. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the sensor data comprises input current provided to the one or more drive units of the agricultural metering system.
7. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to receive additional data indicative of parameters unrelated to the one or more drive units and to select an appropriate threshold of the one or more thresholds based at least in part on the additional data, and the additional data comprises parameters related to the material, environmental conditions, or any combination thereof.
8. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured receive baseline data and to generate the one or more thresholds using the baseline data.
9. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to receive the sensor data continuously or periodically, and the processor is configured to determine the condition of the one or more drive units based at least in part on a trend in the sensor data, a rate of change of the sensor data, or any combination thereof.
10. An agricultural system, comprising: an air cart; a metering system comprising a meter roller configured to dispense a material from a storage tank into an air flow within a conduit, an electric motor configured to drive rotation of the meter roller, and one or more sensors configured to obtain sensor data indicative of operational characteristics of the electric motor; and a processor configured to compare the sensor data to one or more thresholds to determine a condition of the electric motor.
11. The agricultural system of claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to determine the condition of the one or more drive units prior to complete failure of the electric motor and while the electric motor is capable of driving the meter roller to dispense the material at a target application rate set by an operator.
12. The agricultural system of claim 10, comprising a user interface, wherein the processor is configured to instruct the user interface to provide an indication of the condition of the electric motor.
13. The agricultural system of claim 10, wherein the one or more sensors comprise a current sensor, a voltage sensor, a temperature sensor, a torque sensor, or any combination thereof.
14. The agricultural system of claim 10, wherein the sensor data comprises an input current provided to the electric motor.
15. The agricultural system of claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to generate the one or more thresholds based on baseline data.
16. A method of monitoring an agricultural metering system, comprising: receiving, at a processor, sensor data from one or more sensors positioned about a drive unit of the agricultural metering system; comparing, via the processor, the sensor data to one or more thresholds to determine a condition of the drive unit of the agricultural metering system; and instructing, via the processor, a user interface to provide an output indicative of the condition of the drive unit of the agricultural metering system.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the processor receives the sensor data, determines the condition of the drive unit, and instructs the user interface prior to complete failure of the drive unit and while the drive unit is capable of driving a meter roller of the agricultural metering system to deliver a material at a target application rate.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the drive unit comprises an electric drive, a hydraulic drive, or a pneumatic drive.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the sensor data comprises an input current, a voltage, a temperature, a torque, or any combination thereof.
20. The method of claim 16, comprising: receiving, at the processor, additional sensor data from a plurality of additional sensors positioned about a plurality of additional drive units of the agricultural metering system, wherein the sensor data and the additional sensor data is collected by the one or more sensors and the plurality of additional sensors, respectively, at a first time or over a first time period; and generating, using the processor, the one or more thresholds using the sensor data and the additional sensor data.
</claims>
</document>
