<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06T7/80,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG, HAIBO
VAN ZON, CORNELIS CONRADUS ADRIANUS MARIA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63683139
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CAMERA AND IMAGE CALIBRATION FOR SUBJECT IDENTIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
In various embodiments, a first plurality of digital images captured by a first camera (256, 456, 1156) of a first area may be categorized (1202-1210) into multiple predetermined categories based on visual attribute(s) of the first plurality of digital images. A second plurality of digital images captured by a second camera (276, 376, 476, 1176) of a second area may be categorized (1302-1310) into the same predetermined categories based on visual attribute(s) of the second plurality of digital images. After the second camera acquires (1402) a subsequent digital image depicting an unknown subject in the second area, the subsequent digital image may be categorized (1404-1406) into a given one of the predetermined categories based on its visual attribute(s), and then adjusted (1408) based on a relationship between the first plurality of digital images categorized into the given category and the second plurality of digital images categorized into the given category.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: acquiring, using a first camera in a first area, a plurality of first camera face images that depict faces of a plurality of subjects in the first area; for each first camera face image of the plurality of first camera face images: determining a visual attribute measurement of the face depicted in the first camera face image, and assigning the first camera face image to one of a plurality of predetermined classifications based on the visual attribute measurement of the face depicted in the first camera face image; determining, for each classification of the plurality of classifications, a first camera classification distribution shared among first camera face images of the plurality of first camera face images that are assigned the classification; acquiring, using a second camera in a second area, a plurality of second camera face images that depict faces of the subjects in the second area; for each second camera face image of the plurality of second camera face images: determining a visual attribute measurement of the face depicted in the second camera face image, and assigning the second camera face image one of the plurality of predetermined classifications based on the visual attribute measurement of the face depicted in the second camera face image; determining, for each classification of the plurality of classifications, a second camera classification distribution shared among second camera face images of the plurality of second camera face images that are assigned the classification; acquiring, using the second camera, a subsequent face image depicting a face of an unidentified subject; determining a visual attribute measurement of the unidentified subject's face depicted in the subsequent face image; assigning the subsequent face image a given predetermined classification of the plurality of predetermined classifications based on the visual attribute measurement of the face depicted in the subsequent face image; applying an adjustment to the subsequent face image to generate a calibrated subsequent face image, wherein applying the adjustment is based on the first camera classification distribution and the second camera classification distribution associated with the given predetermined classification; and determining an identity of the unidentified subject based on a comparison of one or more features of the calibrated subsequent face image with one or more features of one or more of the plurality of first camera face images and the plurality of second camera face images.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first camera classification distribution comprises a first statistic associated with RGB histograms of the first camera face images of the plurality of first camera face images that are assigned the classification, and the second camera classification distribution comprises a second statistic associated with RGB histograms of the second camera face images of the plurality of second camera face images that are assigned the classification.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first statistic comprises an average histogram of the RGB histograms of the first camera face images of the plurality of first camera face images that are assigned the classification, and the second statistic comprises an average histogram of the RGB histograms of the second camera face images of the plurality of second camera face images that are assigned the classification.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: normalizing the RGB histograms of the first camera face images of the plurality of first camera face images that are assigned the classification; and normalizing the RGB histograms of the second camera face images of the plurality of second camera face images that are assigned the classification.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjustment comprises a histogram correction.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising calibrating an aperture of the second camera to an aperture of the first camera.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising calibrating a shutter speed of the second camera to a shutter speed of the first camera.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising calibrating a white balance of the second camera to a white balance of the first camera.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of predetermined classifications comprise a plurality of skin tone ranges.
10. At least one non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, in response to execution of the instructions by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform the following operations: categorizing a first plurality of digital images captured by a first camera into a plurality of predetermined categories based on one or more visual attributes of the first plurality of digital images, wherein each digital image of the first plurality of digital images depicts one of a plurality of subjects in a first area; categorizing a second plurality of digital images captured by a second camera into the same plurality of predetermined categories based on one or more visual attributes of the second plurality of digital images, wherein each digital image of the second plurality of digital images depicts at least one of the plurality of subjects in a second area; acquiring, using the second camera, a subsequent digital image depicting an unknown subject in the second area; categorizing the subsequent digital image into a given predetermined category of the plurality of predetermined categories based on one or more visual attributes of the subsequent digital image; adjusting the subsequent digital image based on a relationship between one or more digital images of the first plurality of digital images categorized into the given predetermined category and one or more digital images of the second plurality of digital images categorized into the given predetermined category; and determining an identity of the unknown subject based on analysis of the adjusted subsequent digital image.
11. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the relationship comprises a relationship between a first statistic associated with RGB histograms of digital images of the first plurality of digital images categorized into the given category and a second statistic associated with RGB histograms of the second plurality of digital images categorized into the given category.
12. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the first statistic comprises an average histogram of the RGB histograms of the digital images of the first plurality of digital images categorized into the given category, and the second statistic comprises an average histogram of the RGB histograms of the digital images of the second plurality of digital images categorized into the given category.
13. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, further comprising instructions to perform the following operations: normalizing the RGB histograms of the digital images of the first plurality of digital images categorized into the given category; and normalizing the RGB histograms of the digital images of the second plurality of digital images categorized into the given category.
14. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the adjusting comprises a histogram correction.
15. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, further comprising instructions for calibrating an aperture of the second camera to an aperture of the first camera.
16. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, further comprising instructions for calibrating a shutter speed of the second camera to a shutter speed of the first camera.
17. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, further comprising instructions for calibrating a white balance of the second camera to a white balance of the first camera.
18. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the plurality of predetermined categories comprise a plurality of skin tone ranges.
19. A system comprising one or more processors and memory operably coupled with the one or more processors, wherein the memory stores instructions that, in response to execution of the instructions by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform the following operations: acquiring, using a first camera in a first area, a plurality of first camera face images that depict faces of a plurality of subjects in the first area; for each first camera face image of the plurality of first camera face images: determining a visual attribute measurement of the face depicted in the first camera face image, and assigning the first camera face image to one of a plurality of predetermined classifications based on the visual attribute measurement of the face depicted in the first camera face image; determining, for each classification of the plurality of classifications, a first camera classification distribution shared among first camera face images of the plurality of first camera face images that are assigned the classification; acquiring, using a second camera in a second area, a plurality of second camera face images that depict faces of the subjects in the second area; for each second camera face image of the plurality of second camera face images: determining a visual attribute measurement of the face depicted in the second camera face image, and assigning the second camera face image one of the plurality of predetermined classifications based on the visual attribute measurement of the face depicted in the second camera face image; determining, for each classification of the plurality of classifications, a second camera classification distribution shared among second camera face images of the plurality of second camera face images that are assigned the classification; acquiring, using the second camera, a subsequent face image depicting a face of an unidentified subject; determining a visual attribute measurement of the unidentified subject's face depicted in the subsequent face image; assigning the subsequent face image a given predetermined classification of the plurality of predetermined classifications based on the visual attribute measurement of the face depicted in the subsequent face image; applying an adjustment to the subsequent face image to generate a calibrated subsequent face image, wherein applying the adjustment is based on the first camera classification distribution and the second camera classification distribution associated with the given predetermined classification; and determining an identity of the unidentified subject based on a comparison of one or more features of the calibrated subsequent face image with one or more features of one or more of the plurality of first camera face images and the plurality of second camera face images.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the first camera classification distribution comprises a first statistic associated with RGB histograms of the first camera face images of the plurality of first camera face images that are assigned the classification, and the second camera classification distribution comprises a second statistic associated with RGB histograms of the second camera face images of the plurality of second camera face images that are assigned the classification.
</claims>
</document>
