<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G10L15/06,G10L15/16,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHEK, ELINNA
FILOTI, OCTAVIAN F.
VERNIER, STANLEY J.
DECKER, RENEE F.
DING, CHENGMIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70770755
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TRAINING AN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE TO GENERATE AN ANSWER TO A QUERY BASED ON AN ANSWER TABLE PATTERN
</title>

<abstract>
A method trains an artificial intelligence system to respond to a complex query. A query/answer (Q/A) system sends a first query to an information server, where the first query is a query about a first topic with regard to a first entity, and where the information server provides access to unstructured information sources. In response to receiving a negative response to the first query for the first entity, the Q/A system sends variations of the first query and a second query about a second topic to the information server. The Q/A system identifies a pattern in the table of information in order to create the answer to the first query for the first entity. The Q/A system then trains an artificial intelligence system to respond to a complex query about the first entity with information in the table of information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: sending, by a query/answer system, a first query to an information server, wherein the first query is a query about a first topic with regard to a first entity, and wherein the information server provides access to unstructured information sources; receiving, by the query/answer system, a negative response to the first query for the first entity, wherein the negative response indicates that the unstructured information sources do not explicitly contain an answer to the first query for the first entity; in response to receiving the negative response to the first query for the first entity: sending, by the query/answer system, variations of the first query to the information server, wherein the variations of the first query are about the first topic with regard to other entities, and wherein the other entities do not include the first entity; and sending, by the query/answer system, a second query to the information server, wherein the second query is about a second topic regarding both the first entity and the other entities; receiving, by the query/answer system and from the information server, responses to the variations of the first query and responses to the second query; generating, by the query/answer system, a table of information from the responses to the variations of the first query and the responses to the second query; identifying, by the query/answer system, a pattern in the table of information between the responses to the variations of the first query and the responses to the second query for the other entities; creating, by the query/answer system, the answer to the first query for the first entity based on the pattern in the table of information between the responses to the variations of the first query and the responses to the second query for the other entities; populating, by the query/answer system, the table of information with the answer to the first query; and training, by the query/answer system, an artificial intelligence system to respond to a complex query about the first entity with information in the table of information that is populated with the answer to the first query, wherein the complex query requests responses to multiple queries about the first entity.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the artificial intelligence system is a neural network.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: training the neural network to generate the table of information from the responses to the variations of the first query and the responses to the second query for the other entities.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the complex response includes controlling a physical device, and wherein the method further comprises: training the neural network to direct one or more processors to control the physical device.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the complex response includes controlling a physical device, and wherein the method further comprises: training the neural network to direct one or more processors to change a functionality of the physical device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein a response to the first query is dependent upon a response to the second query.
7. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, and wherein the program code is readable and executable by a processor to perform a method comprising: sending a first query to an information server, wherein the first query is a query about a first topic with regard to a first entity, and wherein the information server provides access to unstructured information sources; receiving a negative response to the first query for the first entity, wherein the negative response indicates that the unstructured information sources do not explicitly contain an answer to the first query for the first entity; in response to receiving the negative response to the first query for the first entity: sending variations of the first query to the information server, wherein the variations of the first query are about the first topic with regard to other entities, and wherein the other entities do not include the first entity; and sending a second query to the information server, wherein the second query is about a second topic regarding both the first entity and the other entities; receiving, from the information server, responses to the variations of the first query and responses to the second query; generating a table of information from the responses to the variations of the first query and the responses to the second query; identifying a pattern in the table of information between the responses to the variations of the first query and the responses to the second query for the other entities; creating the answer to the first query for the first entity based on the pattern in the table of information between the responses to the variations of the first query and the responses to the second query for the other entities; populating the table of information with the answer to the first query; and training an artificial intelligence system to respond to a complex query about the first entity with information in the table of information that is populated with the answer to the first query, wherein the complex query requests responses to multiple queries about the first entity.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the artificial intelligence system is a neural network.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the method further comprises: training the neural network to generate the table of information from the responses to the variations of the first query and the responses to the second query for the other entities.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the complex response includes controlling a physical device, and wherein the method further comprises: training the neural network to control the physical device.
11. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the complex response includes controlling a physical device, and wherein the method further comprises: training the neural network to change a functionality of the physical device.
12. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein a response to the first query is dependent upon a response to the second query.
13. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the program code is provided as a service in a cloud environment.
14. A computer system comprising one or more processors, one or more computer readable memories, and one or more computer readable non-transitory storage mediums, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more computer readable non-transitory storage mediums for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more computer readable memories, the stored program instructions executed to perform a method comprising: sending a first query to an information server, wherein the first query is a query about a first topic with regard to a first entity, and wherein the information server provides access to unstructured information sources; receiving a negative response to the first query for the first entity, wherein the negative response indicates that the unstructured information sources do not explicitly contain an answer to the first query for the first entity; in response to receiving the negative response to the first query for the first entity: sending variations of the first query to the information server, wherein the variations of the first query are about the first topic with regard to other entities, and wherein the other entities do not include the first entity; and sending a second query to the information server, wherein the second query is about a second topic regarding both the first entity and the other entities; receiving, from the information server, responses to the variations of the first query and responses to the second query; generating a table of information from the responses to the variations of the first query and the responses to the second query; identifying a pattern in the table of information between the responses to the variations of the first query and the responses to the second query for the other entities; creating the answer to the first query for the first entity based on the pattern in the table of information between the responses to the variations of the first query and the responses to the second query for the other entities; populating the table of information with the answer to the first query; and training an artificial intelligence system to respond to a complex query about the first entity with information in the table of information that is populated with the answer to the first query, wherein the complex query requests responses to multiple queries about the first entity.
15. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the artificial intelligence system is a neural network.
16. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises: training the neural network to generate the table of information from the responses to the variations of the first query and the responses to the second query for the other entities.
17. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the complex response includes controlling a physical device, and wherein the method further comprises: training the neural network to control the physical device.
18. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the complex response includes controlling a physical device, and wherein the method further comprises: training the neural network to change a functionality of the physical device.
19. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein a response to the first query is dependent upon a response to the second query.
20. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the stored program instructions are provided as a service in a cloud environment.
</claims>
</document>
