<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/36,G06F8/10,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BATTA, RAGHAV
BULUT, MUHAMMED FATIH
HWANG, JINHO
KALIA, ANUP
KHANDEKAR, ROHIT MADHUKAR
VUKOVIC, MAJA
XIAO, JIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72336369
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISCOVERY OF COMPUTER CODE ACTIONS AND PARAMETERS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, computer-implemented methods, and computer program products that can facilitate creating and querying a knowledge base of identified topics, computer code actions, and parameters, are provided. According to an embodiment, a system can comprise a memory that stores computer executable components and a processor that executes the computer executable components stored in the memory. The computer executable components can comprise a parameter component that can identify a result parameter in ones of one or more results, wherein the one or more results comprise topics and computer code actions. The computer executable components can further comprise a result component that can select a result of the one or more results based on a mapping of a query to the one or more results, the mapping being based on the result parameter identified in the result and a criterion.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a memory that stores computer executable components; and a processor that executes the computer executable components stored in the memory, wherein the computer executable components comprise: a parameter component that identifies a result parameter in ones of one or more results, wherein the one or more results comprise topics and computer code actions; and a result component that selects a result of the one or more results based on a mapping of a query to the one or more results, the mapping being based on the result parameter identified in the result and a criterion.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise a query component that communicates the query to the result component, and wherein the criterion comprises a degree of similarity between the query and the result parameter identified in the result.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more results comprise at least one of a change ticket or a service ticket.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise a transforming component that transforms at least one of the query or the one or more results, based on a regular expression.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise an analysis component that analyzes the one or more results to determine a syntactical representation of the topics and the computer code actions in the ones of the one or more results, and wherein the identifying the result parameter in the ones of one or more results is based on the syntactical representation.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the parameter component further identifies a context for the result parameter in the ones of one or more results, wherein the context comprises an environment for executing the computer code actions for the result parameter in the ones of one or more results, and wherein the mapping is further based on the context of the result parameter identified in the result.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the context comprises at least one of, for the executing the computer code actions, a pre-condition, a post-condition, an application, or an operating system.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise a validating component that validates the result parameter identified in the result based on at least one of, feedback or source documentation, of the result parameter identified in the result.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise a clustering component that clusters the one or more results by domain, the mapping being further based on the clustering.
10. A computer-implemented method, comprising: identifying, by a system operatively connected to a processor, a result parameter in ones of one or more results, wherein the one or more results comprise topics and computer code actions; and selecting, by the system, a result of the one or more results based on a mapping of a query to the one or more results, the mapping being based on the result parameter identified in the result and a criterion.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the criterion comprises a degree of similarity between the query and the result parameter identified in the result.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the one or more results comprise at least one of a change ticket or a service ticket.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising, transforming, by the system, at least one of the query or the one or more results, based on a regular expression.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising, analyzing the one or more results to determine a syntactical representation of the topics and the computer code actions in the ones of the one or more results, and wherein the identifying the result parameter in the ones of one or more results is based on the syntactical representation.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising, identifying, by the system, a context for the result parameter in the ones of one or more results, wherein the context comprises an environment for executing the computer code actions for the result parameter in the ones of one or more results, and wherein the mapping is further based on the context of the result parameter identified in the result.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the context comprises at least one of, for the executing the computer code actions, a pre-condition, a post-condition, an application, or an operating system.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the computer executable components further comprise a validating component that validates the result parameter identified in the result based on at least one of, feedback or source documentation, of the result parameter identified in the result.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the computer executable components further comprise a clustering component that clusters the one or more results by domain, the mapping being further based on the clustering.
19. A computer program product facilitating a selection of query results based on topic and computer code parameters, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to: identify, by the processor, a result parameter in ones of one or more results, wherein the one or more results comprise topics and computer code actions; and select, by the processor, a result of the one or more results based on a mapping of a query to the one or more results, the mapping being based on the result parameter identified in the result and a criterion.
20. A computer program product of claim 19, wherein the criterion comprises a degree of similarity between the query and the result parameter identified in the result.
</claims>
</document>
