<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L13/00,G10L13/04,G10L15/08,H04M3/493,H04M3/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
EDWARD S. GREGORY
HUET, MIRANDA
PRATT, JAMES
ZAVESKY, ERIC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72335590
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Communications network security for handling proxy voice calls
</title>

<abstract>
Concepts and technologies are disclosed herein for communications network security for handling proxy voice calls that employ a voicebot. According to one aspect disclosed herein, a call handling system can intercept, from a communications network, a call request that is directed to a called target device. The call handling system can determine that the call request was generated by a voicebot on behalf of a user equipment. The call handling system can suspend the call request from being routed to the called target device. The call handling system can generate a voicebot confirmation request that identifies the voicebot and the user equipment. The call handling system can provide the voicebot confirmation request to the called target. The call request can be suspended while the voicebot confirmation request is provided to the called target device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: intercepting, by a call handling system from a communications network, a call request that is directed to a called target device; determining, by the call handling system, that the call request was generated by a voicebot on behalf of a user equipment, wherein determining that the call request was generated by a voicebot on behalf of a user equipment comprises determining that the call request is from a text-to-speech neural network platform; in response to determining that the call request was generated by a voicebot on behalf of a user equipment, suspending, by the call handling system, the call request from being routed to the called target device; and while the call request is suspended, generating, by the call handling system, a voicebot confirmation request that identifies the voicebot and the user equipment, and providing, by the call handling system, the voicebot confirmation request to the called target device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the call request requests establishment of a proxy voice call between the voicebot and the called target device.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the proxy voice call does not connect the user equipment to the called target device.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the user equipment authorized establishment of the proxy voice call but did not generate the call request for the called target device.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: validating, by the call handling system, whether the voicebot is permitted to contact and engage in a proxy voice call with the called target device; and releasing, by the call handling system, the call request from suspension to establish the proxy voice call between the voicebot and the called target device.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein validating whether the voicebot is permitted to contact and engage in the proxy voice call with the called target device is based on a community bot registry.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising determining, by the call handling system, that the called target device invokes an answering voicebot to engage in the proxy voice call, wherein releasing suspension of the call request is based on the answering voicebot of the called target device.
8. A system comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores computer-executable instructions that, in response to being executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: intercepting, from a communications network, a call request that is directed to a called target device, determining that the call request was generated by a voicebot on behalf of a user equipment, wherein determining that the call request was generated by a voicebot on behalf of a user equipment comprises determining that the call request is from a text-to-speech neural network platform, in response to determining that the call request was generated by a voicebot on a behalf of a user equipment, suspending the call request from being routed to the called target device, and while the call request is suspended, generating a voicebot confirmation request that identifies the voicebot and the user equipment, and providing the voicebot confirmation request to the called target device.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the call request requests establishment of a proxy voice call between the voicebot and the called target device.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the proxy voice call does not connect the user equipment to the called target device.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the user equipment authorized establishment of the proxy voice call but did not generate the call request for the called target device.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: validating whether the voicebot is permitted to contact and engage in a proxy voice call with the called target device, and releasing the call request from suspension to establish the proxy voice call between the voicebot and the called target device.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein validating whether the voicebot is permitted to contact and engage in the proxy voice call with the called target device is based on a community bot registry.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise determining that the called target device invokes an answering voicebot to engage in the proxy voice call, and wherein releasing the call request from suspension is based on the answering voicebot of the called target device.
15. A computer storage medium having computer-executable instructions stored thereon that, in response to execution by a processor of a system, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: intercepting, from a communications network, a call request that is directed to a called target device; determining that the call request was generated by a voicebot on behalf of a user equipment, wherein determining that the call request was generated by a voicebot on behalf of a user equipment comprises determining that the call request is from a text-to-speech neural network platform; in response to determining that the call request was generated by a voicebot on behalf of a user equipment, suspending the call request from being routed to the called target device; and while the call request is suspended, generating a voicebot confirmation request that identifies the voicebot and the user equipment, and providing the voicebot confirmation request to the called target device.
16. The computer storage medium of claim 15, wherein the call request requests establishment of a proxy voice call between the voicebot and the called target device, and wherein the proxy voice call does not connect the user equipment to the called target device.
17. The computer storage medium of claim 16, wherein the user equipment authorized establishment of the proxy voice call but did not generate the call request for the called target device.
18. The computer storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: validating whether the voicebot is permitted to contact and engage in a proxy voice call with the called target device; and releasing the call request from suspension to establish the proxy voice call between the voicebot and the called target device.
19. The computer storage medium of claim 18, wherein validating whether the voicebot is permitted to contact and engage in the proxy voice call with the called target device is based on a community bot registry.
20. The computer storage medium of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise determining that the called target device invokes an answering voicebot to engage in the proxy voice call, and wherein releasing the call request from suspension is based on the answering voicebot of the called target device.
</claims>
</document>
