<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01L1/00,G01S19/01,G06F1/16,G06Q10/06,H04R1/02,H04W4/80,H04W64/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MODJOUL
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOLEY, GOUTAM
MADATHIL, KAPIL CHALIL
MARTINEZ, R. ERIC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64016284
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WEARABLE ELECTRONIC BELT DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A belt wearable by a human subject includes a variety of sensors that collect information about the wearer, the wearer's environment, and the wearer's movements. A communication interface on the belt allows sensor data collected by the belt to be transferred to a storage server. In some examples, the communication interface is a Wi-Fi interface, a cellular interface, or a removable memory interface. The data is processed to identify activities performed by the wearer such as walking, driving, and working at heights. In some examples, events such as aggressive driving events, slips and falls, and unsafe lifting are detected. In some examples, this information is used to generate reports that allow an employer to manage the productivity and safety of a workforce.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: obtaining, at a computer system, a set of sensor data from a belt worn by a subject, the set of sensor data describing a force applied to the belt; processing the sensor data to identify a set of activities performed by the subject; generating a measure based at least in part on the set of activities; and presenting the measure.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising sending a signal to the belt that causes the belt to provide an indication to the subject.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining information that describes plurality of movements and movement directions; determining a path of motion traveled by the subject based at least in part on the plurality of movements and movement directions; and causing the path of motion to be displayed.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising determining that the subject has performed an activity by applying Correlation-based Feature Selection to the set of sensor data.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, based at least in part on the set of sensor data, that the subject performed a lifting action; determining, based at least in part on the set of sensor data, an estimate of an amount of weight lifted by the subject; determining, based at least in part on the set of sensor data, a posture of the subject when performing the lifting action; and determining, based at least in part on the posture and the estimate, that the lifting action was unsafe.
6. A belt, comprising: a wireless communication interface; a sensor capable of measuring a force on the belt; one or more processors; and memory storing computer-executable instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the belt to: obtain sensor data by at least measuring a force on the belt with the sensor; and transmit the sensor data to a computer system using the wireless communication interface.
7. The belt of claim 6, wherein: the belt includes an atmospheric pressure sensor, a temperature sensor, or a humidity sensor; and the sensor data includes an ambient temperature, an atmospheric pressure, or a relative humidity.
8. The belt of claim 6, wherein: the wireless communication interface is a Wi-Fi interface; and the computer-executable instructions further cause the belt to configure the Wi-Fi interface with a set of credentials that allow access to a Wi-Fi access point, the Wi-Fi access point in communication with the computer system.
9. The belt of claim 6, wherein the sensor is a pressure sensor mounted on the interior surface of the belt.
10. The belt of claim 6, wherein: the belt includes an accelerometer, a vibration sensor, a shock sensor, or a strain gauge; and the sensor data includes a measure of tension applied along the length of the belt.
11. The computer system of claim 6, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the belt to: receive a signal from the computer system via the wireless communication interface; and provide an indication on the belt that is based at least in part on the signal.
12. The belt of claim 11, wherein: the signal is received in response to transmitting the sensor data to the computer system; the belt includes a speaker; and the indication is a noise produced by the speaker.
13. The belt of claim 6, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the belt to: establish a wireless connection to a second sensor that is not attached to the belt; obtain a second piece of sensor data from the second sensor; and transmit the second piece of sensor data to the computer system via the wireless communication interface.
14. The belt of claim 6, further comprising a strap and a buckle, the buckle including a plurality of sensors located inside the buckle, the plurality of sensors including: a force sensor that helps indicate an amount of weight lifted by a wearer; an orientation sensor that indicates a posture of the wearer; a global positioning sensor that tracks the location of the wearer over time; an altimeter that helps indicate the height of the wearer above the ground; and wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the belt to transmit data from the plurality of sensors to a network-connected service that processes the data.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon executable instructions that, as a result of being executed by one or more processors of a computer system, cause the computer system to at least: obtain a set of sensor data from a belt worn by a subject, the sensor data describing a force applied to the belt; process the sensor data to identify a set of activities performed by the subject; generate a measure based at least in part on the set of activities; and cause the measure to be displayed.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the computer-executable instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to send a signal to the belt that causes the belt to provide an indication to the subject.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the executable instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to: obtain information that describes plurality of movements and movement directions; determine a path of motion traveled by the subject based at least in part on the plurality of movements and movement directions; and cause the path of motion to be displayed.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the executable instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to determine that the subject has performed an activity by applying Correlation-based Feature Selection to the set of sensor data.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the executable instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to: determine, based at least in part on the sensor data, that the subject is driving; and determine, based at least in part on the sensor data, a measure of risk associated with a driving activity of the subject.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the executable instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to: determine that an unsafe driving event has occurred; and transmit an indication of the unsafe driving event to the belt.
21. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the executable instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to: generate a report in HTML format based at least in part on the measure; and provide the report in response to a request received from a web browser.
22. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 21, wherein the report is a driving report, a safety report, or a productivity report.
23. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the belt includes: a force sensor that indicates an amount of tension on the belt; an orientation sensor that indicates a posture of the subject; a global positioning sensor that tracks the location of the subject over time; an altimeter that helps indicate the height of the subject above the ground; and the executable instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to: determine, based at least in part on information obtained from the force sensor and the orientation sensor, that a lifting operation was performed by the subject; determine, based at least in part on information obtained from the altimeter, that the subject is working from heights; and determine, based at least in part on information obtained from the global positioning sensor, that the subject is driving.
24. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein: the belt includes an accelerometer; and the executable instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to detect, based at least in part on information generated by the accelerometer, an aggressive driving event.
25. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 24, wherein the executable instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to detect, based at least in part on information generated by the accelerometer, that the subject has fallen.
26. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein the executable instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to use tension on the belt as a proxy for estimating a lifting force exerted by the subject.
</claims>
</document>
