<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/903,G06F16/9038,G06F16/908,G06F16/93
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WEVELOP CO., LTD.
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, KWON SEOK
CHAI, Hyun Kyung
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046223
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNICAL DOCUMENT SEARCHING APPARATUS AND METHOD OF SEARCHING TECHNICAL DOCUMENT
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to a technology literature searching application apparatus and a patent search method using the same. The technology literature searching application apparatus using a treatise link search according to an embodiment of the present invention may comprise: an interface unit for receiving the search information from a client terminal, a first subject treatise search unit for searching a first subject treatise data from the search information, a citation relationship treatise search unit for obtaining a target treatise data having a forward or backward citation relationship with a predetermined first subject treatise data, or target treatise information about the target treatise data, from the citation relationship information of the searched first subject treatise data, and a target patent search unit for searching a target patent literature related to the target treatise data or the target treatise information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A technology literature searching application apparatus using a treatise link search comprises, an interface unit for receiving the search information from a client terminal; a first subject treatise search unit for searching a first subject treatise data from the search information; a citation relationship treatise search unit for obtaining a target treatise data having a forward or backward citation relationship with a predetermined first subject treatise data, or target treatise information about the target treatise data, from the citation relationship information of the searched first subject treatise data; and a target patent search unit for searching a target patent literature related to the target treatise data or the target treatise information.
2. The technology literature searching application apparatus of the claim 1, wherein the predetermined first subject treatise is all of the first subject treatises or is determined by a predetermined criteria or a user's selection.
3. The technology literature searching application apparatus of the claim 1, wherein the citation relationship treatise search unit assigns a weight value to the target patent literature according to the number of times of forward citation of the first subject treatise or the target treatise data.
4. The technology literature searching application apparatus of the claim 1, wherein the citation relationship treatise search unit assigns a weight value to the target patent literature according to a citation position where the target treatise data cites or is cited by the first subject treatise data.
5. The technology literature searching application apparatus of the claim 4, wherein the citation position may be one or more of an abstract, an introduction, a discussion, an experimental example, or a measurement.
6. The technology literature searching application apparatus of the claim 1, wherein when a treatise data directly backward/forward citing the predetermined first subject treatise is defined as a first generation backward/forward citation treatise data, and a treatise data indirectly backward/forward citing the predetermined first subject treatise by backward/forward citing the first generation backward/forward citation treatise is defined as a second-generation backward/forward citation treatise data, a treatise data indirectly backward/forward citing the predetermined first subject treatise by backward/forward citing n-1th generation backward/forward citation treatise as n-1th generation backward/forward citation treatise data, and a treatise data indirectly backward/forward citing the predetermined first subject treatise by backward/forward citing nth generation backward/forward citation treatise as nth generation backward/forward citation treatise data, the citation relationship treatise search unit includes further a citation generation setting unit to designate a predetermined n value for limiting search result of a target treatise data and the target treatise is set to be the nth generation backward/forward citation treatise data.
7. The technology literature searching application apparatus of the claim 1, wherein the target treatise information includes at least one or more of title, author, a first author of the treatise, affiliated institution of the author or the first author, a link to a treatise site, abstract, keywords, body, information of sponsoring organizations, ORCID (open researcher and contributor ID), society, a name of journal, publication date, digital object identifier (DOI), international standard serial registration number ISSN), CAS registration number, automatic recommendation keyword added by the citation relationship treatise search unit, a synonym of the automatic recommendation keyword, keyword from deep-learning or artificial intelligence(AI), or a frequently used word of the treatise data.
8. The technology literature searching application apparatus of the claim 1, wherein the target patent search unit searches a target patent literature including at least one or more of the target treatise information in a target field initially set or selected by a user.
9. The technology literature searching application apparatus of the claim 1, wherein the target patent search unit searches a target patent literature related to all of the target treatise data, or a target patent literature related to predetermined target treatise data determined by a predetermined criteria or a user's selection among the target treatise data.
10. The technology literature searching application apparatus of the claim 1, wherein the target patent search unit includes a first limit search unit configured to search limitedly the target patent literature filed within a grace period of a publication exception assertion of the target treatise data; or a second limit search unit configured to search limitedly the target patent literature filed within a previous period limit or a subsequent period limit from a filing date or publication date of the target treatise data.
11. The technology literature searching application apparatus of the claim 1, further comprising a patent technology analysis unit for generating technology analysis information including at least one or more of change state of an applicant of the target patent literature, a joint application, ownership transfer, an information about whether a license is established or not, succession identification information of an application right, co-applicant's identification information, assignee identification information, licensee identification information, remaining term information, an application date, the number of family applications, a country information, and a lawsuit.
12. The technology literature searching application apparatus of the claim 12, further comprising a user communication unit configured to output identification information of a searched treatise data or a patent literature, an original text file or the treatise data, information of patent literatures, or a combination thereof, and wherein the searched treatise data, and the patent literature include the first subject treatise data, the target treatise data or the target patent literature.
13. The technology literature searching application apparatus using a treatise link search comprising, an interface unit for receiving search information from a client terminal; a subject patent search unit for obtaining subject patent literature and subject patent literature information related to the subject patent literature from the search information; a second subject treatise search unit for searching second subject treatises related to the subject patent from the subject patent literature information; a citation relationship treatise search unit for obtaining target treatise data having a forward or backward citation relationship with a predetermined second subject treatise, or target treatise information about the target treatise data, from the citation relationship information of the searched second subject treatise; and a target patent search unit for searching the target patent literature related to the target treatise data or the target treatise information.
14. The technology literature searching application apparatus of the claim 13, wherein the subject patent literature comprises a patent literature obtained from the search information or a patent literature having forward or backward citation relationship with the subject patent literature.
15. The technology literature searching application apparatus of the claim 13, wherein the search information is assigned to a title of a invention, summary, an applicant, a detailed description, an inventor, an IPC code, an application date, a publication date, a registration date, an application number, a publication number, a registration number, an agent or a combination thereof.
16. The technology literature searching application apparatus of the claim 13, wherein the second subject treatise search unit searches for a second subject treatise having the same author as the inventor or the applicant of the target patent literature information.
17. A patent search method using a treatise link search comprises, a step for receiving search information from a client terminal; a step for searching subject treatise data from the search information; a step for obtaining a target treatise data having a forward or backward citation relationship with a predetermined subject treatise data among the subject treatise data, or target treatise information about the target treatise data; and a step for searching a target patent literature related to the target treatise data or the target treatise information.
18. The patent search method using a treatise link search of the claim 17, wherein the step for searching the subject treatise data from the search information comprises, a step for obtaining a subject patent literature or a subject patent literature information about the subject patent literature from the search information; and a step for obtaining the subject treatise data related to the subject patent literature from the subject patent literature or the subject patent literature information.
19. The patent search method using a treatise link search of the claim 17, wherein the target treatise data or the target patent literature is displayed to a user in time series or time progress.
20. The patent search method using a treatise link search of the claim 17, wherein the target patent literature is assigned with a weight value according to a citation position where the target treatise data or the target patent literatures cites or is cited by the subject treatise data.
</claims>
</document>
