<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/9535,G06F16/9537,G06F16/9538
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
MIYAZAKI, MITSUHIRO
SAKAI, SHIMON
MOMOTANI, SHOSUKE
ARAKI, KAZUNORI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66540100
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INFORMATION PROCESSING APPARATUS, INFORMATION PROCESSING METHOD, AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
More beneficial recommendation information at a timing suitable for a state of the user is provided. There is provided an information processing apparatus including a presentation control unit configured to control presentation of recommendation information to a user on the basis of a recommendation score regarding content, in which the presentation control unit controls presentation of the recommendation information further on the basis of an acceptability score calculated from matching between a content situation regarding the content and a user situation regarding the user. Further, there is provided an information processing method including causing a processor to control presentation of recommendation information to a user on the basis of a recommendation score regarding content, in which the causing a processor to control presentation further includes controlling presentation of the recommendation information on the basis of an acceptability score calculated from matching between a content situation regarding the content and a user situation regarding the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing apparatus comprising a presentation control unit configured to control presentation of recommendation information to a user on a basis of a recommendation score regarding content, wherein the presentation control unit controls presentation of the recommendation information further on a basis of an acceptability score calculated from matching between a content situation regarding the content and a user situation regarding the user.
2. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the presentation control unit calculates acceptability for each situation attribute included in the content situation and the user situation, and calculates the acceptability score on a basis of the acceptability for each situation attribute.
3. The information processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the presentation control unit calculates the acceptability score by using the acceptability for each situation attribute and a weight that is dynamically set on a basis of a situational reason obtained from a user history.
4. The information processing apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the presentation control unit uses, as the acceptability score, one of comprehensive acceptability calculated by using the acceptability and the weight and a comprehensive acceptability difference indicating a difference between the comprehensive acceptability calculated previously and the comprehensive acceptability calculated currently.
5. The information processing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the presentation control unit selects, as the acceptability score, one of the comprehensive acceptability and the comprehensive acceptability difference on a basis of the situation attribute the acceptability of which is changed.
6. The information processing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein in a case where a number of the situation attributes the acceptability of which is changed is equal to or more than a threshold, the presentation control unit adopts the comprehensive acceptability difference as the acceptability score.
7. The information processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the presentation control unit causes the recommendation information to be presented on a basis of a change in the situation attribute serving as a factor that causes reduction in the acceptability score.
8. The information processing apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the presentation control unit causes the recommendation information to be presented on a basis that the acceptability regarding the situation attribute serving as the factor that causes reduction is improved because of a change in the situation attribute.
9. The information processing apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the presentation control unit acquires the situational reason on a basis of an utterance of the user.
10. The information processing apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the presentation control unit acquires the situational reason on a basis of an answer of the user to an inquiry.
11. The information processing apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the presentation control unit acquires the situational reason on a basis of a tendency of the user individual based on a difference from a general model.
12. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the user includes a user individual and a user group to which the user belongs, and the presentation control unit calculates the acceptability score by targeting one of the user individual and the user group.
13. The information processing apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the presentation control unit calculates the acceptability score on a basis of a user history regarding the user individual included in the user group.
14. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the content includes a vacation spot.
15. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the presentation control unit calculates the recommendation score on a basis of an analyzed user preference and content profile.
16. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a presentation unit configured to present the recommendation information to the user under control of the presentation control unit.
17. An information processing method comprising causing a processor to control presentation of recommendation information to a user on a basis of a recommendation score regarding content, wherein the causing a processor to control presentation further includes controlling presentation of the recommendation information on a basis of an acceptability score calculated from matching between a content situation regarding the content and a user situation regarding the user.
18. A program for causing a computer to function as an information processing apparatus comprising a presentation control unit configured to control presentation of recommendation information to a user on a basis of a recommendation score regarding content, wherein the presentation control unit controls presentation of the recommendation information further on a basis of an acceptability score calculated from matching between a content situation regarding the content and a user situation regarding the user.
</claims>
</document>
