<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/56,G06N20/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N5/02,G06N7/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CYLANCE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SOEDER, DEREK A.
KAPOOR, ADITYA
ZHAO, XUAN
DAVIS, ANDREW
WOLFF, MATTHEW
PERMEH, RYAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64014763
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Machine Learning Model for Malware Dynamic Analysis
</title>

<abstract>
In some implementations there may be provided a system. The system may include a processor and a memory. The memory may include program code which causes operations when executed by the processor. The operations may include analyzing a series of events contained in received data. The series of events may include events that occur during the execution of a data object. The series of events may be analyzed to at least extract, from the series of events, subsequences of events. A machine learning model may determine a classification for the received data. The machine learning model may classify the received data based at least on whether the subsequences of events are malicious. The classification indicative of whether the received data is malicious may be provided. Related methods and articles of manufacture, including computer program products, are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-32. (canceled)
33. A computer-implemented method comprising: analyzing a series of events contained in received data, the series of events comprising events that occur during the execution of a data object, and the series of events being analyzed to at least extract, from the series of events, two or more subsequences of events, at least two of the subsequences of events being non-consecutive; determining, by a machine learning model and by using a logistic regression of an average representation of the two or more subsequences of events, a classification for the received data, the machine learning model classifying the received data based at least on whether the two or more subsequences of events are malicious; and providing the classification indicative of whether the received data is malicious, the classification being used to make a determination of whether to continue to execute the data object in order to prevent damage to a computing system and/or software.
34. The computer-implemented method according to claim 33, wherein the two or more subsequences of events are extracted by at least: determining a plurality of subsequences in the series of events; identifying a plurality of most frequent subsequences in the plurality of subsequences; and selecting, from the plurality of the most frequent subsequences, the two or more subsequences of events.
35. The computer-implemented method according to claim 34, wherein the selecting of the two or more subsequence of events is based on a frequency of occurrence of the plurality of most frequent subsequences exceeding a predetermined threshold.
36. The computer-implemented method according to claim 34, wherein the plurality of the most frequent subsequences are identified by at least applying an Apriori algorithm.
37. The computer-implemented method according to claim 36, wherein the Apriori algorithm is configured to at least: identify a most frequent event; and identify, based at least on the most frequent event, a most frequent subsequence of events, the most frequent subsequence of events including the most frequent event and at least one other event.
38. The computer-implemented method according to claim 33, wherein the machine learning model comprises a recurrent neural network.
39. The computer-implemented method according to claim 38, wherein the recurrent neural network comprises a long short term memory network.
40. The computer-implemented method according to claim 39, wherein the long short term memory network comprises a memory cell, the memory cell being configured maintain a value, the memory cell being further configured to determine, based at least on an event, whether to update, output, discard, and/or continue to maintain the value.
41. The computer-implemented method according to claim 33, wherein the machine learning model determines the classification for the received data by at least: generating a representation the two or more subsequences of events; determining an average representation of the two or more subsequences of events over a plurality of time steps associated with the series of events; determining a logistic regression of an average representation of the two or more subsequences of events; and determining, based on the logistic regression, the classification for the received data.
42. The computer-implemented method according to claim 33 further comprising: determining whether the series of events includes at least one malicious event; and classifying the received data based at least on a presence of the at least one malicious event in the series of events.
43. The computer-implemented method according to claim 42 further comprising: determining that an event is malicious based at least on a filename and/or a filepath associated with the event.
44. The computer-implemented method according to claim 43, wherein the filename and/or the filepath associated with the event is analyzed based at least on a pattern associated with one or more filenames and/or filepaths that are known to be non-malicious.
45. The computer-implemented method according to claim 44, wherein the pattern associated with the one or more non-malicious filenames and/or filepaths is modeled using a Markov chain.
46. The computer-implemented method of claim 43, wherein the data object comprises a file, a function, and/or a software program.
47. The computer-implemented method according to claim 33, wherein the two or more subsequence of events comprise consecutive and/or non-consecutive events from the series of events.
48. A system comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory including program code which when executed by the at least one processor causes operations comprising: analyzing a series of events contained in received data, the series of events comprising events that occur during the execution of a data object, and the series of events being analyzed to at least extract, from the series of events, two or more subsequences of events, at least two of the subsequences of events being non-consecutive; determining, by a machine learning model and by using a logistic regression of an average representation of the two or more subsequences of events, a classification for the received data, the machine learning model classifying the received data based at least on whether the two or more subsequences of events are malicious; and providing the classification indicative of whether the received data is malicious, the classification being used to make a determination of whether to continue to execute the data object in order to prevent damage to a computing system and/or software.
49. The system according to claim 48, wherein the two or more subsequences of events are extracted by at least: determining a plurality of subsequences in the series of events; identifying a plurality of most frequent subsequences in the plurality of subsequences; and selecting, from the plurality of the most frequent subsequences, the two or more subsequences of events.
50. The system according to claim 49, wherein the selecting of the two or more subsequence of events is based on a frequency of occurrence of the plurality of most frequent subsequences exceeding a predetermined threshold.
51. The system according to claim 49, wherein the plurality of the most frequent subsequences are identified by at least applying an Apriori algorithm that is configured to identify a most frequent event; and identify, based at least on the most frequent event, a most frequent subsequence of events, the most frequent subsequence of events including the most frequent event and at least one other event.
52. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including program code, which when executed by at least one data processor, cause operations comprising: analyzing a series of events contained in received data, the series of events comprising events that occur during the execution of a data object, and the series of events being analyzed to at least extract, from the series of events, two or more subsequences of events, at least two of the subsequences of events being non-consecutive; determining, by a machine learning model and by using a logistic regression of an average representation of the two or more subsequences of events, a classification for the received data, the machine learning model classifying the received data based at least on whether the two or more subsequences of events are malicious; and providing the classification indicative of whether the received data is malicious, the classification being used to make a determination of whether to continue to execute the data object in order to prevent damage to a computing system and/or software.
</claims>
</document>
