<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q50/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AON RISK SERVICES, INC. OF MARYLAND
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDREWS, DAVID CRAIG
CROUSE, DANIEL
FLEMING, SAMUEL CAMERON
LEE, LEWIS, C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74065573
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Analysis Of Intellectual-Property Data In Relation To Products And Services
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques described herein are directed to analyzing intellectual-property data according to provide various intellectual property related services to organizations. In particular implementations, information related to products and/or services may be obtained from a number of data sources. Additionally, information related to intellectual-property assets, such as patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and know-how, may be obtained. In various situations, the intellectual-property assets may be mapped to respective products and/or services. The mappings between the products and/or services and intellectual-property assets may be used to provide intellectual property related services that correspond to the intellectual-property assets, such as valuation services, strategy-related services, or risk-related services.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining first parts of speech for first words included in first information associated with a product; determining second parts of speech for second words included in second information corresponding to a claim of a patent document; determining a portion of the first words that correspond to a feature of the product; determining, based at least partly on the first parts of speech, a first action performed with respect to the feature; generating, based at least partly on the first action a first linguistic structure for the feature the first linguistic structure indicating one or more first relationships between the first action and one or more first nouns included in the first information; determining, based at least partly on the second parts of speech, a second action included in the claim; generating, based at least partly on the second action, a second linguistic structure for the claim, the second linguistic structure indicating one or more second relationships between the second action and one or more second nouns included in the claim; determining a similarity metric between the first linguistic structure and the second linguistic structure; and determining, based at least partly on the similarity metric, that the claim corresponds to the product.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the first linguistic structure includes a first tree structure having: a first level including a first node corresponding to the first action; and a second level including a second node; and the second linguistic structure includes a second tree structure having: a third level including a third node corresponding to the second action; and a fourth level including a fourth node.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: determining a first amount of similarity between the first action and the second action; determining a second amount of similarity between the first level, the second level, the third level, and the fourth level; and determining a third amount of similarity between the first node, the second node, the third node, and the fourth node; and wherein the similarity metric is determined at least partly based on the first amount of similarity, the second amount of similarity, and the third amount of similarity.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: determining an amount of similarity between a first word of the second node and a second word of a fifth node associated with the second node; and wherein the similarity metric is determined at least partly based on the amount of similarity.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the claim includes elements, the action corresponds to an element of the elements, and the method further comprises determining that the element corresponds to the feature based at least partly on the similarity metric.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving input data corresponding to an amount of similarity between the claim and the product; and modifying, based at least partly on the amount of similarity, the similarity metric.
7. A system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable media storing instructions executable by the one or more processors, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving information including a claim of a patent document; determining words included in the claim; determining parts of speech for the words; determining, based at least partly on the parts of speech, an action included in the claim, the action associated with a verb and the parts of speech include a noun that corresponds to the verb; and generating a linguistic structure for the claim, the linguistic structure indicating one or more relationships between the verb and one or more additional words included in the claim.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein, the action comprises a first action, the verb comprises a first verb, the noun comprises a first noun, the one or more additional words comprise one or more first additional words, the linguistic structure comprises a first linguistic structure, the one or more relationships comprise first one or more relationships, and the operations further comprise: determining, based at least partly on the parts of speech, a second action included in the claim, the second action associated with a second verb and a second noun included in the claim; and generating a second linguistic structure for the claim, the second linguistic structure indicating one or more second relationships between the second verb and one or more second additional words included in the claim.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the information comprises first information, the action comprises a first action, and the operations further comprise: receiving second information corresponding to at least one of a product or a service, the second information including a second action performed with respect to a feature of the at least one of the product or the service; generating a third linguistic structure for the at least one of the product or the service, the third linguistic structure indicating one or more third relationships between the second action and one or more third additional words included in the second information; and determining, based at least partly on the first linguistic structure, the second linguistic structure, and the third linguistic structure, a similarity metric between the at least one of the product or the service and the claim.
10. The system of claim 9, the operations further comprising: determining, based at least partly on the similarity metric being less than a threshold similarity metric, that the at least one of the product or the service is unassociated with the claim; receiving input data indicating that the at least one of the product or the service corresponds with the claim; and increasing a value of the similarity metric based at least partly on the input data.
11. The system of claim 9, the operations further comprising: determining, based at least partly on the similarity metric being at least a threshold similarity metric, that the at least one of the product or the service corresponds to the claim; receiving input data indicating that the at least one of the product or the service is unassociated with the claim; and decreasing a value of the similarity metric based at least partly on the input data.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein the linguistic structure comprises a first linguistic structure, and the operations further comprises: performing a comparison between the first linguistic structure and a second linguistic structure, the second linguistic structure associated with at least one of a product or a service; and determining, based at least partly on the comparison, that the at least one of the product or the service corresponds to the claim.
13. The system of claim 12 the operations further comprising: determining a classification for the claim; and determining that the at least one of the product or the service is associated with the classification; and determining, based at least in part on the at least one of the product or the service being associated with the classification, that the claim is associated with the at least one of the product or the service.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein determining that the at least one of the product or service is associated with the classification is based at least in part on the comparison.
15. A method comprising: receiving information corresponding to at least one of a product or a service; determining words included in the information; determining parts of speech for the words; determining a portion of the individual words that correspond to a feature of the at least one of the product or the service; determining, based at least partly on the parts of speech an action performed with respect to the feature; and generating, based at least partly on the parts of speech, a linguistic structure for the at least one of the product or the service, the linguistic structure indicating one or more relationships between the action and the words.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the linguistic structure comprises a tree structure having levels, individual ones of the levels having one or more nodes.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein: a first level of the levels includes a first node; the first node of the one or more nodes corresponds to a verb of the words, the verb corresponding to the action; and a second level of the levels includes a second node of the one or more nodes, the second node indicating a noun that corresponds to the verb.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein: the noun comprises a first noun; the second node indicates an adjective that corresponds to the first noun; the second level includes a third node that indicates a second noun that corresponds to the verb; and a third level of the levels includes a fourth node that indicates a third noun that is associated with the first noun.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the linguistic structure comprises a first linguistic structure, the one or more relationships comprise one or more second relationships, the verb comprises a first verb, and the method further comprises: generating a second linguistic structure for a claim included in a patent document; performing a comparison between the first linguistic structure and the second linguistic structure; and determining, based at least partly on the comparison, that the at least one of the product or the service corresponds to the claim.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein the linguistic structure includes a first tree structure having a first level with a first node and a second level with a second node, the linguistic structure comprises a first linguistic structure, and the method further comprises: generating a second linguistic structure for an intellectual-property asset, the second linguistic structure including a second tree structure having a third level with a third node and a fourth level with a fourth node; performing a first comparison between a first word indicated by the first node and a second word indicated by the third node; performing a second comparison between a first number of nodes included in the second level and a second number of nodes included in the fourth level; and determining that the at least one of the product or the service corresponds to the intellectual-property asset based at least partly on the first comparison and the second comparison.
</claims>
</document>
