<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/14,G06F9/451,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING KINGSOFT INTERNET SECURITY SOFTWARE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUANG, HSIEN-DE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60405158
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INFORMATION PROCESSING AND MODEL TRAINING METHODS, APPARATUSES, ELECTRONIC DEVICES, AND STORAGE MEDIUMS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present application provide information processing and model training methods, apparatuses, electronic devices and storage mediums. The method includes: obtaining to-be-processed pop-up information sent to an electronic device; inputting the to-be-processed pop-up information into a pop-up management model; wherein the pop-up management model is a model that is constructed based on a deep neural network and configured for determining whether the input pop-up information is pop-up information that is of interest to a user; wherein the pop-up information that is of interest to the user is information whose degree of attention is greater than a threshold; if an output result of the pop-up management model is information indicating that the to-be-processed pop-up information is the pop-up information that is of interest to the user, sending the to-be-processed pop-up information to an electronic device, so that the electronic device displays the to-be-processed pop-up information through a pop-up function. With the embodiments of the present application, the problem that the electronic device displays a large amount of pop-up information that is not of interest to a user is solved, and thus the user experience is improved.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing method, comprising: obtaining to-be-processed pop-up information; inputting the to-be-processed pop-up information into a pop-up management model, wherein the pop-up management model is a model that is constructed based on a deep neural network and configured for determining whether the input pop-up information is pop-up information that is of interest to a user, wherein the pop-up information that is of interest to the user is information whose degree of attention is greater than a threshold; and if an output result of the pop-up management model is information indicating that the to-be-processed pop-up information is the pop-up information that is of interest to the user, sending the to-be-processed pop-up information to a target electronic device, so that the target electronic device displays the to-be-processed pop-up information through a pop-up function.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: if the output result of the pop-up management model is information indicating that the to-be-processed pop-up information is not the pop-up information that is of interest to the user, refusing to send the to-be-processed pop-up information to the target electronic device.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pop-up management model is trained and obtained by operations of: constructing the pop-up management model based on the deep neural network, wherein a modeling unit of the pop-up management model is information indicating whether pop-up information is of interest to a user; obtaining a training set, converting pop-up information in the training set into feature vectors, and marking the pop-up information in the training set with labels indicating that the pop-up information is of interest to the user or the pop-up information is not of interest to the user; and training the pop-up management model by the feature vectors and the labels.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein, the pop-up management model is trained and obtained by operations of: obtaining a training set comprising a plurality of pieces of pop-up information and label information corresponding to the plurality of pieces of pop-up information, wherein the label information is information indicating that the pop-up information is of interest to the user or that the pop-up information is not of interest to the user; converting the pop-up information in the training set into feature vectors, and marking the pop-up information in the training set with labels having label information corresponding to the pop-up information; obtaining a preset deep neural network, and initializing parameters of the deep neural network as target parameters; inputting a feature vector of each piece of pop-up information comprised in the training set into the deep neural network to obtain an output result of this piece of pop-up information, wherein the output result of this piece of pop-up information is information indicating that this pop-up information is of interest to the user or that this pop-up information is not of interest to the user; calculating a pop-up information loss value according to the output result of each piece of pop-up information and label information corresponding to this pop-up information comprised in the training set; determining, according to the pop-up information loss value, whether the deep neural network using the target parameters converges; if the deep neural network does not converge, adjusting the parameters of the deep neural network, taking the adjusted parameters as the target parameters, and returning to the operation of inputting a feature vector of each piece of pop-up information comprised in the training set into the deep neural network to obtain an output result of this piece of pop-up information; and if the deep neural network converges, taking the deep neural network using the target parameters as the pop-up management model.
5. The method according to claim 3, wherein, converting the pop-up information in the training set into feature vectors comprises: converting the pop-up information in the training set into the feature vectors according to display time, a display delay duration, a display location, and a specification of an electronic device used by a user.
6. The method according to claim 3, wherein, the deep neural network comprises an input layer, an abstraction layer, and an output layer, wherein the number of neurons comprised in the input layer of the deep neural network is the same as the number of dimensions of the feature vector; an activation function of the abstraction layer is a Rectified Linear Units (ReLu) function; and an activation function of the output layer is an S-type (sigmoid) function.
7. The method according to claim 3, wherein, after inputting the to-be-processed pop-up information into the pop-up management model, the method further comprises: adding a correspondence between the output result of the pop-up management model and the to-be-processed pop-up information to the training set.
8. The method according to claim 3, wherein, the pop-up information that is of interest to the user is pop-up information viewed by the user, wherein, the training set is determined by operations of: sending the obtained plurality of pieces of pop-up information to a plurality of electronic devices, so that the plurality of electronic devices respectively display the received pop-up information through the pop-up function, and record whether the user views the received pop-up information; receiving a correspondence, returned by the plurality of electronic devices, between the pop-up information and a fact whether the user views the pop-up information; and determining the training set according to the received correspondence.
9. (canceled)
10. A model training method, comprising: constructing a pop-up management model based on a deep neural network, wherein a modeling unit of the pop-up management model is information indicating whether pop-up information is of interest to a user, wherein the pop-up information that is of interest to the user is information whose degree of attention is greater than a threshold; obtaining a training set, converting pop-up information in the training set into feature vectors, and marking the pop-up information in the training set with labels indicating that the pop-up information is of interest to the user or the pop-up information is not of interest to the user; and training the pop-up management model by the feature vectors and the labels.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein, converting pop-up information in the training set into feature vectors comprises: converting the pop-up information in the training set into the feature vectors according to display time, a display delay duration, a display location, and a specification of an electronic device used by a user.
12. The method according to claim 10, wherein, the deep neural network comprises an input layer, an abstraction layer, and an output layer, wherein the number of neurons comprised in the input layer of the deep neural network is the same as the number of dimensions of the feature vector; an activation function of the abstraction layer is a Rectified Linear Units (ReLu) function; and an activation function of the output layer is an S-type (sigmoid) function.
13. The method according to claim 10, wherein, the pop-up information that is of interest to the user is pop-up information viewed by the user, wherein, the training set is determined by operations of: sending the obtained plurality of pieces of pop-up information to a plurality of electronic devices, so that the plurality of electronic devices respectively display the received pop-up information through a pop-up function, and record whether the user views the received pop-up information; receiving a correspondence, returned by the plurality of electronic devices, between the pop-up information and a fact whether the user views the pop-up information; and determining the training set according to the received correspondence.
14. (canceled)
15. A model training method, comprising: obtaining a training set comprising a plurality of pieces of pop-up information and label information corresponding to the plurality of pieces of pop-up information, wherein the label information is information indicating that the pop-up information is of interest to a user or that the pop-up information is not of interest to a user; converting the pop-up information in the training set into feature vectors, and marking the pop-up information in the training set with labels having label information corresponding to the pop-up information; obtaining a preset deep neural network, and initializing parameters of the deep neural network as target parameters; inputting a feature vector of each piece of pop-up information comprised in the training set into the deep neural network to obtain an output result of this piece of pop-up information, wherein the output result of this piece of pop-up information is information indicating that this pop-up information is of interest to the user or that this pop-up information is not of interest to the user; calculating a pop-up information loss value according to the output result of each piece of pop-up information and label information corresponding to this pop-up information comprised in the training set; determining, according to the pop-up information loss value, whether the deep neural network using the target parameters converges; if the deep neural network does not converge, adjusting the parameters of the deep neural network, taking the adjusted parameters as the target parameters, and returning to the step of inputting a feature vector of each piece of pop-up information comprised in the training set into the deep neural network to obtain an output result of this piece of pop-up information; and if the deep neural network converges, taking the deep neural network using the target parameters as the pop-up management model.
16. The method according to claim 15, wherein, converting the pop-up information in the training set into feature vectors comprises: converting the pop-up information in the training set into the feature vectors according to display time, a display delay duration, a display location, and a specification of an electronic device used by the user.
17. The method according to claim 15, wherein, the deep neural network comprises an input layer, an abstraction layer, and an output layer, wherein the number of neurons comprised in the input layer of the deep neural network is the same as the number of dimensions of the feature vector; an activation function of the abstraction layer is a Rectified Linear Units (ReLu) function; an activation function of the output layer is an S-type (sigmoid) function.
18. The method according to claim 15, wherein, the pop-up information that is of interest to the user is pop-up information viewed by the user, wherein, the training set is determined by: sending the obtained plurality of pieces of pop-up information to a plurality of electronic devices, so that the plurality of electronic devices respectively display the received pop-up information through a pop-up function, and record whether the user views the received pop-up information; receiving a correspondence, returned by the plurality of electronic devices, between the pop-up information and a fact whether the user views the pop-up information; and determining the training set according to the received correspondence.
19. (canceled)
20. 20-38. (canceled)
39. An electronic device comprising a processor, a communication interface, a memory and a communication bus, wherein the processor, the memory and the communication interface communicate with each other via the communication bus; the memory stores a computer program; and the processor executes the computer program stored in the memory to implement the method according to claim 1.
40. An electronic device comprising a processor, a communication interface, a memory and a communication bus, wherein the processor, the memory and the communication interface communicate with each other via the communication bus; the memory stores a computer program; and the processor executes the computer program stored in the memory to implement the method according to claim 10.
41. An electronic device comprising a processor, a communication interface, a memory and a communication bus, wherein the processor, the memory and the communication interface communicate with each other via the communication bus; the memory stores a computer program; and the processor executes the computer program stored in the memory to implement the method according to claim 15.
42. 42-47. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
