<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/18,H04L29/06,H04M3/56,H04N21/43,H04N21/431,H04N21/4788,H04N7/15
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DRESSBOT
</assignee>

<inventors>
SIDDIQUE, SAMI
STIMPSON, BRAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64460377
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MULTI-USER DIGITAL INTERACTIVE EXPERIENCE
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein is a methods and systems for providing a digital interactive experience. Interactive experiences include, but not limited to, synchronized video playback, video and text chat between two or more participants, and interactive live event participation combining synchronized video, text and video chatting. The system comprises persistent and non-persistent components to which a plurality of participants in the interactive experience may connect.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of adding a user to a digital interactive synchronized experience comprising: providing, at a server, an interaction system comprising: a publishing group comprising a first plurality of users each: sending a media stream to a publisher, the media stream comprising at least one selected from the group of an audio stream and a video stream; and receiving a composite media stream from a subscriber, the subscriber in communication with the publisher, the composite media stream comprising at least two of the media streams from the first plurality of users, wherein the media stream is sent simultaneously as the composite media stream is received; and receiving at the interaction system, from a computing device in network communication with the server, a connection request from a nominee user; establishing a simultaneous video connection with the nominee user and the interaction system; and adding the nominee user to the publishing group.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the publishing group comprising the first plurality of users wherein a first user in the first plurality of users sends the media stream to the first plurality of users.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein instead of receiving the connection request from the nominee user, a first user in the publishing group sends an invitation to the nominee user and the nominee user is added to the publishing group.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the publishing group further comprises a moderator user receiving the connection request, a moderator user interviewing the nominee user, the moderator user approving the connection request, and the nominee user being added to the publishing group; the interaction system further comprises a distribution group comprising a second plurality of users that receive the composite media stream from a distributor; the subscriber sends the composite media stream to the distributor; and the adding the nominee user instead comprises adding the nominee user to the distribution group.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein the nominee user is in the distribution group and the connection request is a request to join the publishing group.
6. The method of claim 4 wherein the adding the nominee user to the publishing group further comprises: determining whether adding the nominee user to the publishing group exceeds a publishing threshold, if adding the nominee user to the publishing group exceeds the publishing threshold: adding the nominee user to the distribution group; and otherwise: adding the nominee user to the publishing group.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein determining whether adding the nominee user to the publishing group exceeds the publishing threshold further comprises comparing a count of the first plurality of users of the publishing group to a publishing threshold user count.
8. The method of claim 6 wherein determining whether adding the nominee user to the publishing group exceeds the publishing threshold further comprises comparing a current bandwidth of the first plurality of users in the publishing group to a publishing threshold bandwidth.
9. The method of claim 6 further comprising an interactive text communication involving each user in the first plurality of users and each user in the second plurality of users.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein the interactive text communication further comprises a moderation by the moderator user.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the moderation is automatic.
12. A system for providing a digital interactive synchronized experience, the system comprising: a host server, a publisher receiving an application stream and a plurality of media streams corresponding to a first plurality of users in a publishing group, each of the media streams comprising at least one selected from the group of an audio stream and a video stream, the publisher sending the plurality of media streams to a subscriber, and the subscriber composing the application stream and at least two of the plurality of media streams into a composite stream and sending the composite stream to the first plurality of users in the publishing group, wherein the composite stream is sent simultaneously as the plurality of media streams is received.
13. The system of claim 12 wherein the subscriber sends the composite stream comprising an interaction stream from each user in the first plurality of users to a distributor comprising a content delivery network, a second plurality of users in a distributor group receiving the composite stream from the content delivery network.
14. The system of claim 13 wherein the composite stream instead comprises: the interaction stream from each user in the first plurality of users and each user in the second plurality of users.
15. The system of claim 14 further comprising: a playback action comprising a user identifier, a playback event, and an action message, and wherein the first plurality of users and the second plurality of users receive the playback action and change a playback of the application stream.
16. The system of claim 15 wherein the application stream comprises providing a set of instructions to a user application running locally to the user.
17. A method of providing synchronized interactive media, the method comprising: providing an application stream, receiving a plurality of publisher streams corresponding to a first plurality of users in a publishing group, each publisher stream comprising at least one selected from the group of an audio and a video stream, receiving an interaction stream comprising user input from a second plurality of users in a distribution group, composing a composite media stream comprising the application stream, two or more of the plurality of publisher streams corresponding to the first plurality of users in the publishing group, and the interaction stream, sending the composite media stream to a second plurality of users in the distribution group, and wherein the composite media stream, the plurality of publisher streams corresponding to the first plurality of users in the publishing group, and the interaction stream are synchronous.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein the sending the composite media stream to a plurality of users in the distribution group comprises sending the composite media stream to a content delivery network, the content delivery network in communication with the plurality of users in the distribution group.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein the first plurality of users in the publishing group receive a first composite media stream comprising the application stream, the plurality of publisher streams corresponding to the first plurality of users in the publishing group, and the interaction stream, and the second plurality of users in the distribution group receive a second composite media stream comprising the application stream and the interaction stream.
20. The method of claim 19 wherein a synchronization component sends a synchronization action to the first plurality of users and the second plurality of users comprising a synchronization event and a synchronization message wherein each of the first plurality of users and a playback of the application stream changes for each of users in the second plurality of users.
21. The method of claim 20 wherein each user in the first plurality of users and each user in the second plurality of users receive a playback action comprising a user identifier, a playback event, and an action message, and wherein the first plurality of users and the second plurality of users receive the playback action and change the playback of the application stream.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein the receiving the interaction stream comprises: receiving a plurality of user input from at least one of the first plurality of users; processing the user input into the interaction stream; sending the playback action to each of the first plurality of users and each of the second plurality of users corresponding to the user input; wherein the first plurality of users and the second plurality of users receive the playback action and change the playback of the application stream.
23. The method of claim 21 further comprising: receiving a plurality of user input from at least one of the first plurality of users and the second plurality of users; processing the user input into the interaction stream; sending the playback action to each of the first plurality of users and each of the second plurality of users corresponding to the user input; and wherein the first plurality of users and the second plurality of users receive the playback action and change the playback of the application stream.
24. A system for providing synchronized interactive media playback, the system comprising: a host server, an application stream transmitted to a mixer, a plurality of publishers in a publisher group, the plurality of publishers transmitting a plurality of publisher streams to the mixer, each publisher stream comprising at least one selected from the group of an audio stream and a video stream, a plurality of recipients in a distributor group in network communication with a distributor, the plurality of recipients transmitting a plurality of interaction streams to the mixer, the mixer composing a composite media stream comprising two or more of the plurality of publisher streams, the plurality of interaction streams, and the application stream, wherein the application stream, the composite media stream, the plurality of publisher streams, and the plurality of interaction streams are synchronous; the distributor receiving the composite media stream from the mixer, and the distributor sending the composite media stream to the plurality of recipients.
25. The system of claim 24 wherein: a synchronization event comprising a synchronization time reference and a synchronization message wherein the plurality of recipients and the plurality of publishers receive the synchronization event from a media synchronization component, each of the plurality of recipients and each of the plurality of publishers changes a playback of the application stream; a playback action comprising a user identifier, and an action message; and wherein the plurality of publishers and the plurality of recipients receive the playback action and change the playback of the application stream.
</claims>
</document>
