<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,H04L12/24,H04L12/46,H04L12/715
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
VASSEUR, JEAN-PHILIPPE
KOLAR, VINAY KUMAR
TEDALDI, DAVID
Mermoud, Grégory
Savalle, Pierre-Andre
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650909
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTING NETWORK STATES FOR ANSWERING WHAT-IF SCENARIO OUTCOMES
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a device constructs a set of controlled what-if input parameters for evaluating a what-if scenario in a network. The device uses the set of controlled what-if input parameters and state data indicative of a current state of the network as input to a network state model. The network state model predicts values for the state data conditioned on the what-if input parameters. The device predicts a key performance indicator (KPI) in the network by using the predicted values for the state data from the network state model as input to a machine learning-based KPI prediction model. The device initiates a routing change in the network based in part on the predicted KPI.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: constructing, by a device, a set of controlled what-if input parameters for evaluating a what-if scenario in a network, wherein the set of controlled what-if input parameters relate to features of the network that are independently controlled; using, by the device, the set of controlled what-if input parameters and state data indicative of a current state of the network as input to a network state model comprising a conditional generative adversarial network (GAN), wherein the network state model predicts values for the state data conditioned on the what-if input parameters; predicting, by the device, a key performance indicator (KPI) in the network by using the predicted values for the state data from the network state model as input to a machine learning-based KPI prediction model; and initiating, by the device, a routing change in the network based in part on the predicted KPI.
2. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: predicting a failure of a first tunnel in the network, wherein the controlled what-if input parameters relate to rerouting traffic from the first tunnel to a second tunnel in the network.
3. The method as in claim 2, wherein initiating the routing change in the network based in part on the predicted KPI comprises: determining that the predicted KPI will satisfy a service level agreement associated with the traffic; and proactively rerouting the traffic from the first tunnel onto the second tunnel, in advance of the predicted failure of the first tunnel.
4. The method as in claim 1, wherein the network state model comprises a regression model trained to predict values for the state data conditioned on the what-if input parameters.
5. The method as in claim 1, wherein the GAN concatenates the set of controlled what-if input parameters and the state data into a conditioning signal, to predict the values for the state data conditioned on the what-if input parameters.
6. The method as in claim 1, wherein the state data is indicative of one or more of: loss, latency, or resource usage in the network.
7. The method as in claim 1, wherein the set of controlled what-if input parameters are indicative of a traffic for a set of one or more applications being sent between a source and destination in the network over a period of time.
8. The method as in claim 1, wherein initiating the routing change in the network based in part on the predicted KPI comprises: providing the predicted KPI to a user interface.
9. The method as in claim 1, wherein the network is a software-defined wide area network (SD-WAN).
10. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with a network; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed configured to: construct a set of controlled what-if input parameters for evaluating a what-if scenario in a network, wherein the set of controlled what-if input parameters relate to features of the network that are independently controlled; use the set of controlled what-if input parameters and state data indicative of a current state of the network as input to a network state model comprising a conditional generative adversarial network (GAN), wherein the network state model predicts values for the state data conditioned on the what-if input parameters; predict a key performance indicator (KPI) in the network by using the predicted values for the state data from the network state model as input to a machine learning-based KPI prediction model; and initiate a routing change in the network based in part on the predicted KPI.
11. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: predict a failure of a first tunnel in the network, wherein the controlled what-if input parameters relate to rerouting traffic from the first tunnel to a second tunnel in the network.
12. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the apparatus initiates the routing change in the network based in part on the predicted KPI by: determining that the predicted KPI will satisfy a service level agreement associated with the traffic; and proactively rerouting the traffic from the first tunnel onto the second tunnel, in advance of the predicted failure of the first tunnel.
13. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the network state model comprises a regression model trained to re-estimate the state data conditioned on the what-if input parameters.
14. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the GAN concatenates the set of controlled what-if input parameters and the state data into a conditioning signal, to predict the values for the state data conditioned on the what-if input parameters.
15. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the state data is indicative of one or more of: loss, latency, or resource usage in the network.
16. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the set of controlled what-if input parameters are indicative of a traffic for a set of one or more applications being sent between a source and destination in the network over a period of time.
17. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the apparatus initiates the routing change in the network based in part on the predicted KPI by: providing the predicted KPI to a user interface.
18. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the network is a software-defined wide area network (SD-WAN).
19. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing program instructions that cause a device to execute a process comprising: constructing, by the device, a set of controlled what-if input parameters for evaluating a what-if scenario in a network, wherein the set of controlled what-if input parameters relate to features of the network that are independently controlled; using, by the device, the set of controlled what-if input parameters and state data indicative of a current state of the network as input to a network state model comprising a conditional generative adversarial network (GAN), wherein the network state model predicts values for the state data conditioned on the what-if input parameters; predicting, by the device, a key performance indicator (KPI) in the network by using the predicted values for the state data from the network state model as input to a machine learning-based KPI prediction model; and initiating, by the device, a routing change in the network based in part on the predicted KPI.
20. The computer-readable medium as in claim 19, wherein the process further comprises: predicting a failure of a first tunnel in the network, wherein the controlled what-if input parameters relate to rerouting traffic from the first tunnel to a second tunnel in the network.
</claims>
</document>
