<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G10L15/30,H04N7/14,H04N7/15
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HYPERCONNECT
</assignee>

<inventors>
YONG, HYOUNTAEK
AHN, SANGIL
JUNG, KANGSIK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63856376
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VIDEO COMMUNICATION DEVICE, VIDEO COMMUNICATION METHOD, AND VIDEO COMMUNICATION MEDIATING METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
One or more embodiment relates to a video communication device, video communication method, and a video communication mediating method, which are capable of preventing a user in a video communication from being exposed to an inappropriate image or sound from the other party. One or more embodiment may provide a video communication method comprising establishing a first video communication session with a first terminal, consecutively receiving images or sounds from the first terminal through the first video communication session, examining at least a portion of images or sounds received in a period of recent specific time among the received images or sounds, and blocking an output of at least a portion of the received images or sounds or reporting a user of the first terminal as an abusive user to a first server according to the result of the examining.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A video communication method, comprising: establishing a first video communication session with a first terminal; consecutively receiving images or sounds from the first terminal through the first video communication session; examining at least a portion of images or sounds received in a recent specific time duration among the received images or sounds; and blocking an output of at least a portion of the received images or sounds or reporting a user of the first terminal as an abusive user to a first server according to a result of the examining.
2. The video communication method of claim 1, wherein the examining comprises detecting a specific portion from the at least a portion of images or sounds received in the recent specific time duration.
3. The video communication method of claim 2, wherein the specific portion comprises a portion corresponding to at least one of a specific facial expression, a specific body language, and a specific body part.
4. The video communication method of claim 3, wherein the portion corresponding to the at least one of the specific facial expression, the specific body language, and the specific body part comprises a portion corresponding to at least one of an obscene gesture, an insult gesture, a racism gesture, sexual content, nudity, genitalia, a sexual activity, unsanitary content, excreta, excretion, antisocial content, antihuman content, an illegal conduct, a criminal conduct, a hate crime, a violent conduct, a maltreatment conduct, a self-harmful conduct, a weapon, a drug, an antisocial symbol, hateful content, a threatening content, a phobia-inducing content, and blood.
5. The video communication method of claim 2, wherein the examining comprises detecting a portion corresponding to a specific voice or language from the at least a portion of images or sounds received in the recent specific time duration.
6. The video communication method of claim 5, wherein the portion corresponding to the specific voice or language comprises a portion corresponding to language related to at least one of a swear word, insult, racial discrimination, defamation, obscenity, sexual harassment, antisocial conduct, antihuman conduct, terrorism, hate speech, violence, maltreatment, a drug, and threatening.
7. The video communication method of claim 2, further comprising: repeating the examining at least one time after the examining and before the blocking or the reporting, wherein the blocking or the reporting comprises blocking an output of the at least a portion of the received images or sounds or reporting the user of the first terminal when a number of times in which the specific portion is detected is a first number or more, or a number of times in which the specific portion is consecutively detected is a second number of times or more after the establishing the first video communication session.
8. The video communication method of claim 1, further comprising repeating the examining and the blocking or the reporting in a regular or irregular cycle.
9. The video communication method of claim 1, further comprising consecutively outputting the received images or sounds after the receiving.
10. The video communication method of claim 1, further comprising preparing information on correlation between at least one feature included in an image or sound of an arbitrary user and information on whether the arbitrary user is an abusive user before the establishing the first video communication session, wherein the examining comprises calculating whether the user of the first terminal is the abusive user using the prepared information on correlation and the at least a portion of images or sounds received in the recent specific time duration.
11. The video communication method of claim 10, wherein the preparing information on correlation comprises preparing a machine learning model, and wherein the examining comprises predicting whether the user of the first terminal is the abusive user using the prepared machine learning model and the at least a portion of images or sounds received in the recent specific time duration.
12. The video communication method of claim 11, wherein the preparing the machine learning model comprises receiving the machine learning model from a second server.
13. The video communication method of claim 11, wherein the preparing the machine learning model comprises: preparing at least one image or sound corresponding to a non-abusive user or the abusive user; and training the machine learning model using the at least one image or sound and information on whether each of the at least one image or sound corresponds to the abusive user.
14. The video communication method of claim 13, wherein the preparing the at least one image or sound comprises: establishing at least one second video communication session with at least one terminal of the non-abusive user or at least one terminal of the abusive user; and collecting at least a portion of images or sounds transmitted or received through the at least one second video communication session.
15. 15-18. (canceled)
19. A video communication mediating method comprising: receiving, by a server, a mediation request from a plurality of terminals; mediating, by the server, a video communication connection between a first terminal and a second terminal among the plurality of terminals; receiving, by the server, a report from the first terminal, which indicates that a user of the first terminal or a user of the second terminal is an abusive user as a result of examination on an image of a surrounding area of the first terminal, captured by the first terminal, a sound from the surrounding area of the first terminal, recorded by the first terminal, an image received by the first terminal from the second terminal, or a sound received by the first terminal from the second terminal; mediating, by the server, a video communication connection between a terminal of the reported user and a terminal of a monitoring agent in response to the report; receiving, by the server, a result of verification on the reported user from the terminal of the monitoring agent; and rejecting, by the server, an additional mediation request from the reported user according to the received result of verification.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium having recorded thereon a program for executing the video communication method of claim 1.
21. A video communication device comprising: a communication interface configured to establish a video communication session with a terminal and consecutively receive images or sounds from the terminal through the video communication session; an output interface configured to consecutively output the received images or sounds; and a controller configured to examine at least a portion of the images or sounds received in a recent specific time duration, wherein according to a result of the examination, the controller controls the output interface to block an output of at least a portion of the received images or sounds or the communication interface to report a user of the terminal as an abusive user to a server.
22. A video communication device comprising: an input interface configured to consecutively capture images of a surrounding area thereof or consecutively record sounds from the surrounding area; a communication interface configured to establish a video communication session with a terminal and consecutively transmit the captured images or recorded sounds to the terminal through the video communication session; and a controller configured to examine at least a portion of the images captured or the sounds recorded in a recent specific time duration among the captured images or recorded sounds, wherein according to a result of the examination, the communication interface blocks transmission of at least a portion of the captured images or the recorded sounds, or reports a user of the video communication device as an abusive user to a server.
</claims>
</document>
