<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2455,G06F16/28,G06F21/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
SARFERAZ, SIAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73550922
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATIC ENFORCEMENT OF DATA USE POLICY FOR MACHINE LEARNING APPLICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques and solutions are described for restricting data that is provided to a machine learning application. Restrictions can be based on use status information, such as use status information associated with a retention manager and indicating whether data is blocked from use. Data identifiers used by a cloud-based system can be correlated with archiving objects of a local system so that the cloud-based system can receive use status information to avoid using blocked data. Restrictions can include restricting data based on whether a data subject has provided consent that allows the data to be used by the machine learning application. A data view can be defined that filters query results to those where consent exits. The data view can join, such as an inner join, a table providing consent information with a data having data subject data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising: memory; one or more processing units coupled to the memory; and one or more non-transitory computer readable storage media storing instructions that, when loaded into the memory, cause the one or more processing units to perform operations for: receiving a request from or on behalf of a machine learning application for data stored in a data store; retrieving a data view associated with the request, the data view comprising computer-implementable instructions to: (1) retrieve a first selected portion of data from the data store; and (2) filter, and not return in response to the request, a second portion of data selected from the first selected portion of data and comprising data of the first selected portion of data having an indicator that a given data element of the first selected portion of data has been blocked from use; causing the computer-implementable instructions to be executed; receiving query results in response to the execution of the computer-implementable instructions; and sending the query results as a response to the request.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computer-implementable instructions are in a query language.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computer-implementable instructions corresponding to the filter comprise a condition on an attribute of a table in a relational database system. The computing system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: receiving, by the data store, instructions from a retention manager to update a status associated with a record of the data store from an unblocked status to a blocked status.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the instructions from a retention manager are based on a data privacy or data protection policy.
6. The computing system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: automatically creating the data view in response to receiving the request.
7. The computing system of claim 6, wherein the automatically creating the data view is carried out in further response to determining that the request is associated with the machine learning application.
8. The computing system of claim 7, further comprising storing the data view.
9. In a computing system comprising a memory and one or more processors, a method comprising: defining a data view for use with a machine learning application, the data view comprising computer-implementable instructions for retrieving data from a database, the computer-implementable instructions comprising: (1) a reference to at least a first column of a first table of a relational database system, the first table storing data processible by the machine learning application; (2) a reference to at least a second column of a second table of the relational database system, the second table storing consent information; and (3) a query language join condition on the at least a first column and the at least a second column; receiving a request from or on behalf of a machine learning application for data stored in a database; determining that the data view is associated with the request; retrieving the data view; causing the computer-implementable instructions to be executed; receiving query results in response to the execution of the computer-implementable instructions; and sending the query results as a response to the request.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the defining occurs automatically in response to the receiving of the request.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the at least a first column and the at least a second column represent a data subject attribute name.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the join condition is further on at least a third column of the first table and at least a fourth column of the second table, the at least a third column and the at least a fourth column representing a data controller attribute name.
13. The method of claim 9, the computer-implementable instructions further comprising: filtering records produced at least in part from the query language join condition on a purpose type, wherein the purpose type is a purpose type specified for the machine learning application.
14. The method of claim 9, the computer-implementable instructions further comprising: filtering records produced at least in part from the query language join condition by comparing a current time with a consent validity time.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein at least a portion of the computer-implementable instructions are implemented in a dynamic query language statement.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein at least a first value for the at least a first column and at least a second value for the at least a second column are provided in the request and inserted into the dynamic query language statement.
17. One or more tangible computer-readable storage media storing: computer-executable instructions providing a first plurality of first data objects, a first data object comprising one or more first data elements and being first data subject data processable by a machine learning application; computer-executable instructions providing a second plurality of archiving objects, an archiving object defining a use status of one or more second data objects, a second data object comprising, or being associated with, one or more second data elements, the second data elements being second data subject data, which can be, or can correspond to, the first data subject data; computer-executable instructions mapping each of at least a portion of the first plurality of first data objects to an archiving object of the second plurality of archiving objects; computer-executable instructions correlating the at least a portion of the first plurality of first data objects with respective archiving objects of the second plurality of archiving objects based on the mapping; computer-executable instructions determining the use status information of the respective archiving objects; computer-executable instructions correlating the use status information of the respective archiving objects with the respective at least a portion of the first plurality of first data objects based on the mapping; and computer-executable instructions sending at least a portion of the correlated use status information to a remote computer system.
18. The one or more tangible computer-readable storage media of claim 17, further comprising: computer-executable instructions receiving a request for use status information of a first portion of the first plurality of first data objects, wherein the sending occurs in response to the request.
19. The one or more tangible computer-readable storage media of claim 17, further comprising: receiving a request from a remote computer system to receive use status updates for the at least a portion of the first plurality of first data objects; determining that a data object of the at least a portion of the first data objects has a status update; sending a notification of the status update to the remote computer system.
20. The one or more tangible computer-readable storage media of claim 17, wherein the remote computing system causes at least one of the first data objects to be deleted from storage associated with the remote computer system in response to receiving the at least a portion of the correlated use status information.
</claims>
</document>
