<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHIMANO
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHAHANA, SATOSHI
NAKAJIMA, TAKEHIKO
TAKAYAMA, HITOSHI
SHIMAZU, HAYATO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69102199
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTROL DATA CREATION DEVICE, COMPONENT CONTROL DEVICE, CONTROL DATA CREATION METHOD, COMPONENT CONTROL METHOD AND COMPUTER PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A control data creation device is provided that has an acquisition part, a creation part and an evaluation part. The acquisition part acquires input information concerning traveling of a human-powered vehicle. The creation part creates by a learning algorithm a learning model that outputs output information concerning control of a component of the human-powered vehicle based on input information acquired by the acquisition part. The evaluation part evaluates output information output from the learning model. The creation part updates the learning model based on training data including an evaluation by the evaluation part, input information corresponding to an output of the output information and the output information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A control data creation device comprising: a non-transitory computer readable storage having a learning algorithm stored in the non-transitory computer readable storage; and at least one processor operatively coupled to the non-transitory computer readable storage to execute operations including: an acquisition part configured to acquire input information concerning traveling of a human-powered vehicle; a creation part configured to use the learning algorithm to create a learning model that outputs output information concerning control of a component of the human-powered vehicle based on the input information acquired by the acquisition part; and an evaluation part configured to evaluate the output information output from the learning model, the creation part is configured to update the learning model based on training data including an evaluation by the evaluation part, the input information corresponding to an output of the output information, and the output information.
2. The control data creation device according to claim 1, wherein the evaluation part is configured to determine whether or not control of a component based on the output information output from the learning model is performed in a predetermined manner, and the evaluation part is configured to increase an evaluation upon determining that the control is performed in the predetermined manner.
3. The control data creation device according to claim 2, wherein the evaluation part is configured to detect a torque applied to a driving mechanism of the human-powered vehicle upon determining the control based on the output information is performed, and the evaluation part is configured to determine whether or not the control is performed in the predetermined manner depending on the torque.
4. The control data creation device according to claim 2, wherein the evaluation part is configured to detect a torque applied to a driving mechanism of the human-powered vehicle upon determining the control based on the output information is performed, and the evaluation part is configured to determine whether or not the control is performed in the predetermined manner depending on a variation of the torque.
5. The control data creation device according to claim 2, wherein the evaluation part is configured to detect an attitude of the human-powered vehicle upon determining the control based on the output information is performed, and the evaluation part is configured to determine whether or not the control is performed in the predetermined manner depending on the attitude of human-powered vehicle.
6. The control data creation device according to claim 2, wherein the evaluation part is configured to detect a vibration of the human-powered vehicle upon determining the control based on the output information is performed, and the evaluation part is configured to determine whether or not the control is performed in the predetermined manner depending on the vibration.
7. The control data creation device according to claim 2, wherein the evaluation part is configured to measure a chain tension of the human-powered vehicle upon determining the control based on the output information is performed, and the evaluation part is configured to determine whether or not the control is smoothly performed in the predetermined manner depending on the chain tension.
8. The control data creation device according to claim 2, wherein the evaluation part is configured to detect a posture of a user of the human-powered vehicle upon determining the control based on the output information is performed, and the evaluation part is configured to determines whether or not the control is smoothly performed in the predetermined manner depending on the posture of the user.
9. The control data creation device according to claim 1, wherein the creation part is configured to update the learning model by assigning a larger weight as a degree of evaluation by the evaluation part is higher or lower.
10. The control data creation device according to claim 1, further comprising a user operable input device configured to accept a designation operation concerning the output information, and a non-transitory computer readable storage being configured to temporarily store, one by one, a plurality of pieces of input information in time series for access by the acquisition part, upon determining acceptance of the designation operation by the user operable input device, the creation part being configured to set the pieces of the input information acquired before and after the designation operation is performed as input data, and the creation part being configured to update the learning model by the input data and a detail of the operation performed by the user operable input device.
11. A component control device comprising: a non-transitory computer readable storage having a learning algorithm stored in the non-transitory computer readable storage; and at least one processor operatively coupled to the non-transitory computer readable storage to execute operations including: an acquisition part configured to acquire input information concerning traveling of the human-powered vehicle, a creation part configured to use the learning algorithm to create a learning model created such that the input information concerning traveling of a human-powered vehicle is set as an input and output information concerning control of a component of the human-powered vehicle is to be output; a control part configured to control the component based on the output information output in response to an input of the input information acquired by the acquisition part to the learning model; and an evaluation part that evaluates a detail of control by the control part, the learning model being updated based on an evaluation by the evaluation part, the input information corresponding to the evaluation, and a detail of control as an object to be evaluated.
12. The component control device according to claim 11, further comprising an evaluation acceptance part configured to accept an evaluation of a detail of control performed by the control part, and upon acceptance of an evaluation by the evaluation acceptance part, the learning model being updated based on training data including a plurality of pieces of the input information acquired before and after a timing when the evaluation is accepted, the detail of the control, and the evaluation accepted by the evaluation acceptance part.
13. A control data creation method comprising: acquiring input information concerning traveling of a human-powered vehicle; creating a learning model using a learning algorithm such that the input information that was acquired is set as an input, and output information concerning control of a component of the human-powered vehicle is to be output; and evaluating the output information output from the learning model, the learning model is updated based on training data including an evaluation, the input information corresponding to an output of the output information, and the output information as an object to be evaluated.
14. A component control method comprising: acquiring input information concerning traveling of a human-powered vehicle; specifying output information output in response to an input of the input information to a learning model that is created using a learning algorithm such that the input information that was acquired is set as an input and output information concerning control of a component of the human-powered vehicle is to be output; controlling the component based on the output information that was specified; evaluating a detail of the control of the component; and updating the learning model based on training data including an evaluation, the input information corresponding to the evaluation, and a detail of control as an object to be evaluated.
</claims>
</document>
