<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01D41/127,G06Q50/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JOHN DEERE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLANK, SEBASTIAN
PFEIFFER, DOHN W.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66655249
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTROL OF SETTINGS ON A COMBINE HARVESTER WITH BIAS REMOVAL
</title>

<abstract>
A method performed by a harvesting machine control system comprises obtaining bias data indicative of a performance bias of a first harvesting machine relative to at least one other harvesting machine, receiving a settings input indicative of a request to set performance of the first harvesting machine to correspond to performance of the at least one other harvesting machine, based on the bias data and machine settings associated with the performance of the at least one other harvesting machine, determining adjusted machine settings for the first harvesting machine, and outputting a control instruction to the first harvesting machine based on the adjusted machine settings.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by a harvesting machine control system, the method comprising: obtaining bias data indicative of a performance bias of a first harvesting machine relative to at least one other harvesting machine; receiving a setting input indicative of a request to set performance of the first harvesting machine to correspond to performance of the at least one other harvesting machine; based on the bias data and a machine setting associated with the performance of the at least one other harvesting machine, determining an adjusted machine setting for a controllable subsystem on the first harvesting machine; and outputting a control instruction to the first harvesting machine based on the adjusted machine setting.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one other harvesting machine comprises a second harvesting machine and the adjusted machine setting comprises a set of adjusted machine settings for one or more controllable subsystems on the first harvesting machine.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one other harvesting machine comprises a fleet of harvesting machines.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the setting input defines a target performance score for the first harvesting machine that corresponds to a performance score associated with the second harvesting machine.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the setting input defines a first set of settings for the first harvesting machine and a second set of settings for the second harvesting machine, the second set of settings corresponding to the first set of settings.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the control instruction is configured to at least one of: instruct a user interface device associated with the first harvesting machine to render an indication of the set of adjusted machine settings; or instruct the first harvesting machine to automatically apply the set of adjusted machine settings to the one or more controllable subsystems.
7. The method of claim 2, and further comprising: displaying a machine selection user input mechanism; and based on user actuation of the machine selection user input mechanism, selecting the first and second harvesting machines.
8. The method of claim 2, wherein the bias data defines a setting offset between the first and second harvesting machines; and determining the set of adjusted machine settings comprises applying the setting offset to a set of machine settings associated with the performance of the at least one other harvesting machine.
9. The method of claim 8, and further comprising: calculating the setting offset based on position-referenced data associated with the first and second harvesting machines.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein calculating the setting offset comprises: identifying a set of corresponding zones based on the position-referenced data; identifying a first set of machine settings that is associated with a first one of the zones and corresponds to the first harvesting machine; identifying a second set of machine settings that is associated with a second one of the zones and corresponds to the second harvesting machine; and calculating the setting offset based on differences between the first and second sets of machine settings.
11. The method of claim 1, and further comprising: identifying a particular zone associated with operation of the first harvesting machine; and determining the adjusted machine setting based on the particular zone.
12. A computing system comprising: at least one processor; and memory storing instructions executable by the at least one processor, wherein the instructions, when executed, configure the computing system to: obtain bias data indicative of a performance bias of a first harvesting machine relative to at least one other harvesting machine; receive a setting input indicative of a request to set performance of the first harvesting machine to correspond to performance of the at least one other harvesting machine; based on the bias data and a machine setting associated with the performance of the at least one other harvesting machine, determine an adjusted machine setting for a controllable subsystem on the first harvesting machine; and output a control instruction to the first harvesting machine based on the adjusted machine setting.
13. The computing system of claim 12, wherein the at least one other harvesting machine comprises a second harvesting machine.
14. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the at least one other harvesting machine comprises a second harvesting machine, and the setting input defines at least one of: a first set of settings for the first harvesting machine and a second set of settings for the second harvesting machine, the second set of settings corresponding to the first set of settings; or a target performance score for the first harvesting machine that corresponds to a performance score associated with the second harvesting machine.
15. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the control instruction is configured to at least one of: instruct a user interface device associated with the first harvesting machine to render an indication of the adjusted machine setting; or instruct the first harvesting machine to automatically apply the adjusted machine setting to the controllable subsystem.
16. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the bias data defines a setting offset between the first and second harvesting machines; and the instructions configure the computing system to apply the setting offset to the machine setting associated with the performance of the second harvesting machine.
17. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the instructions configure the computing system to: identify a set of corresponding zones based on position-referenced data; identify a first set of machine settings that is associated with a first one of the zones and corresponds to the first harvesting machine; identify a second set of machine settings that is associated with a second one of the zones and corresponds to the second harvesting machine; and calculate the setting offset based on differences between the first and second sets of machine settings.
18. A mobile machine control system comprising: a machine setting offset calculation component configured to: obtain machine data indicative of operation of a first mobile machine and a second mobile machine; identify a first set of machine settings that corresponds to the operation of the first mobile machine; identify a second set of machine settings that corresponds to the operation of the second mobile machine; and calculate a setting offset based on the machine data and a difference between the first set of machine settings and the second sets of machine settings; and a machine bias compensation system configured to: receive a setting input indicative of a request to set performance of the first mobile machine to correspond to performance of the second mobile machine; identify a particular machine setting associated with the performance of the second mobile machine; determine an adjusted machine setting for the first mobile machine by applying the setting offset to the particular machine setting; and output a control instruction to the first mobile machine based on the adjusted machine setting.
19. The mobile machine control system of claim 18 wherein the first mobile machine comprises a first agricultural harvesting machine, the at least one other mobile machine comprises a second agricultural harvesting machine, and the machine data comprises position-referenced data associated with the first and second agricultural harvesting machines.
20. The mobile machine control system of claim 18, wherein the setting input defines at least one of: a first set of settings for the first mobile machine and a second set of settings for the at least one other mobile machine, the second set of settings corresponding to the first set of settings; or a target performance score for the first mobile machine that corresponds to a performance score associated with the at least one other mobile machine.
</claims>
</document>
