<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/6883,G01N33/68
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
B.R.A.H.M.S
FUNDACION INSTITUTO DE ESTUDIOS DE CIENCIAS DE LASALUD DE CASTILLA Y LEON
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLANCO PERIS, LYDIA
BERMEJO MARTIN, JESUS F.
ORTEGA ANDRES, ALICIA
ALMANSA MORA, RAQUEL
ANDALUZ OJEDA, DAVID
TAMAYO GOMEZ, EDUARDO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59021267
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MMP-8 AS A MARKER FOR IDENTIFYING INFECTIOUS DISEASE
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to a method for the diagnosis, prognosis, risk assessment, risk stratification, monitoring, therapy guidance and/or therapy control of an infectious disease in a subject, wherein said method comprises providing a sample of said subject; determining a level of matrix metalloprotease-8 (MMP-8) or fragment(s) thereof in a sample of said subject, wherein said level of MMP-8 or fragment(s) thereof distinguishes between the presence and absence of an infectious disease in a patient with symptoms of a systemic inflammatory condition. In a preferred embodiment the invention relates to the determination of procalcitonin (PCT) and MMP-8 and their combined use to distinguish between the presence and absence of infectious disease in patients with symptoms of systemic inflammatory condition. The invention also relates to a computer-implemented method and a kit for conducting the method of the invention.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Method for the diagnosis, prognosis, risk assessment, risk stratification, monitoring, therapy guidance and/or therapy control of an infectious disease in a subject, wherein said method comprises: Providing a sample of said subject; determining a level of matrix metalloprotease-8 (MMP-8) or fragment(s) thereof in a sample of said subject, wherein said level of MMP-8 or fragment(s) thereof distinguishes between the presence and absence of an infectious disease in a patient with symptoms of a systemic inflammatory condition.
2. Method according to claim 1, additionally comprising determining a level of procalcitonin or fragment(s) thereof in a sample of the subject, wherein said level of procalcitonin or fragment(s) thereof and the level of MMP-8 or fragment(s) thereof differentiate between the presence and absence of an infectious disease in a patient with symptoms of a systemic inflammatory condition.
3. Method according to claim 1, wherein the determined level of MMP-8 or fragment(s) thereof is indicative of the presence of an infectious disease in a patient with symptoms of a systemic inflammatory condition, when said determined level(s) is above a reference level.
4. Method according to claim 1, wherein said reference level corresponds to MMP-8 levels in patients with a systemic inflammatory condition without an infection.
5. Method according to claim 1, wherein the infectious disease is sepsis, severe sepsis and/or septic shock.
6. Method according to claim 1, wherein the systemic inflammatory condition without an infection is Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome (SIRS) without infection by a pathogenic agent or microorganism.
7. Method according to claim 1, wherein determining a level of MMP-8 or fragment(s) thereof, and optionally additionally determining a level of procalcitonin or fragment(s) thereof, occurs within 72 hours; after symptoms of an infectious disease and/or systemic inflammatory condition occur in the patient.
8. Method according to claim 1, wherein the subject exhibiting symptoms of an infectious disease and/or of a systemic inflammation condition is a post-surgery patient.
9. Method according to claim 1, wherein the subject exhibiting symptoms of an infectious disease and/or of a systemic inflammation condition suffers from shortness of breath.
10. Method according to claim 1, wherein the level of MMP-8 or fragment(s) thereof is indicative of infectious disease severity.
11. Method according to claim 2, wherein the level of procalcitonin or fragment(s) thereof is indicative of infectious disease severity.
12. Method according to claim 1, wherein the sample is a blood sample or a sample derived from blood, preferably whole blood, plasma or serum.
13. Method according to claim 1, wherein the level of MMP-8 or fragment(s) thereof is determined by measuring MMP-8 gene expression.
14. Method according to claim 13, wherein measuring MMP-8 gene expression comprises a quantitative nucleic acid amplification reaction.
15. Method according to any claim 15, wherein the level of MMP-8 or fragment(s) thereof is determined by measuring MMP-8 protein.
16. Method according to claim 15, wherein measuring MMP-8 protein comprises carrying out an immunological assay, wherein said assay comprises: Bringing the sample of the subject into contact with a first anti-MMP-8 affinity reagent, coupled to a first fluorescent label, and a second anti-MMP-8 affinity reagent, coupled to a second fluorescent label, Allowing MMP-8 or fragment(s) thereof in said sample to bind to said first and second affinity reagents, thereby forming an antibody-MMP-8 complex, and Detecting the first and second fluorescent labels, wherein the fluorescent properties of one or more of said first and/or second fluorescent labels is altered upon binding of the first and second affinity reagents to MMP-8 in said sample.
17. Method according to claim 1, additionally comprising determination of one or more additional markers, wherein the one or more further marker is selected from the group consisting of Adrenomedullin (ADM), pro-Adrenomedullin, Histone H2A, Histone H2B, Histone H3, Histone H4, procalcitonin, calcitonin, Endothelin-1 (ET-1), Arginine Vasopressin (AVP), Atrial Natriuretic Peptide (ANP), Neutrophil Gelatinase-Associated Lipocalin (NGAL), Troponin, Brain Natriuretic Peptide (BNP), C-Reactive Protein (CRP), Pancreatic Stone Protein (PSP), Triggering Receptor Expressed on Myeloid Cells 1 (TREM1), Interleukin-6 (IL-6), Interleukin-1, Interleukin-24 (IL-24) other ILs, Presepsin (sCD14-ST), Lipopolysaccharide Binding Protein (LBP), Alpha-1-Antitrypsin, Matrix Metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2), Matrix Metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9), Matrix Metalloproteinase 7 (MMP9), soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1), Placental growth factor (PIGF), Chromogranin A, S100A protein, S100B protein and Tumor Necrosis Factor α (TNFα), Lipocalin-2 (LCN2), Olfactomedin 4 (OLFM4) and Proteinase 3 (PRTN3) or a fragment thereof.
18. Method according to claim 1, additionally comprising comparing the determined level of MMP-8 or fragment(s) thereof to a reference level, threshold value and/or a population average corresponding to MMP-8 levels in patients with systemic inflammatory condition without an infection, wherein said comparing is carried out in a computer processor using computer executable code.
19. Kit for carrying out the method of claim 1, comprising: detection reagents for determining the level of MMP-8 or fragment(s) thereof, and optionally additionally for determining the level of procalcitonin or fragment(s) thereof, in a sample from a subject, and reference data, such as a reference level, corresponding to MMP-8 levels, and optionally procalcitonin levels, in patients with systemic inflammatory condition without an infection, wherein said reference data is stored on a computer readable medium and/or employed in in the form of computer executable code configured for comparing the determined level of MMP-8 or fragment(s) thereof, and optionally additionally the determined level of procalcitonin or fragment(s) thereof, to said reference data.
20. Method according to claim 14, wherein the quantitative nucleic acid amplification reaction is real-time PCR (RT-PCR) or digital droplet PCR (ddPCR) employing detection of cDNA corresponding to MMP-8 encoding mRNA.
21. A method comprising: providing a reaction mixture comprising a complex between matrix metalloprotease-8 (MMP-8) or a fragment thereof and at least one reagent which binds to MMP-8 or a fragment thereof in a sample obtained from a subject, and wherein said subject has symptoms of a systemic inflammatory condition.
</claims>
</document>
