<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/18,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SLACK TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAKRABARTI, ASHOKE
DELANGHE, JAIME
DELGADO, JOSEPH
FAVREAU-LESSARD, SIMON
KATZUR, JONATHAN
SCHMIDT, ANDREW
SINGH, JAPINDER
TANDALLA, LUIS
WEISS, NOAH
WILLS, JOSHUA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70771223
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD, APPARATUS, AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR ORGANIZATIONAL TELEMETRY DISCOVERY WITHIN A GROUP BASED COMMUNICATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure provide methods, systems, apparatuses, and computer program products for discovery of organizational telemetry within a group-based communication system and rendering representations thereof. An interaction signal trends interface is generated based in part on an ordered interaction signal data structures list that is generated based in part on predicted short term interaction signal tallies, actual short term interaction signal tallies, and predicted long term interaction signal tallies.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory storing computer code that, when executed by the at least one processor, causes the apparatus to: for each interaction signal of a plurality of interaction signals, extract interaction signal metadata into an interaction signal data structure of a plurality of interaction signal data structures, wherein the interaction signal metadata comprises an interaction source type, an interaction source identifier, and an interaction type; for each interaction signal data structure record of the plurality of interaction signal data structures comprising an interaction source identifier associated with a first universal record locator (URL) identifier, generate an interaction signal occurrence divergence measure based at least in part on a predicted short term interaction signal occurrence tally and an actual short term interaction signal occurrence tally; and assign an interaction signal data structure record rank value to the interaction signal data structure record based at least in part on the interaction signal occurrence divergence measure; arrange in an ordered interaction signal data structures list each of the interaction signal data structures in an order according to their interaction signal data structure record rank values; and transmit an interaction signal trends interface for rendering within a display device of a requesting client device, wherein the interaction signal trends interface is generated based in part on the ordered interaction signal data structures list.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a second interaction signal data structure record of an interaction signal data structure associated with the first universal record locator (URL) identifier comprises an interaction type representative of one or more of a selection or a share.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the predicted short term interaction signal occurrence tally is based at least part on a long term interaction signal occurrence tally, and wherein the predicted short term interaction signal occurrence tally is representative of a programmatically generated expected number of times an interaction signal associated with the first universal record locator (URL) identifier will occur over a second network time period.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of interaction signals is received from a plurality of client devices, and wherein each client device is associated with a unique user identifier within a group-based communication system.
5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the long term interaction signal occurrence tally is representative of a number of times an interaction signal associated with the interaction signal data structure has occurred over a first network time period, and wherein the long term interaction signal occurrence tally is based on long term interaction signal data retrieved from a group-based communication repository.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the actual short term interaction signal occurrence tally is representative of a number of times an interaction signal associated with the interaction signal data structure occurred over the second network time period, and wherein the short term interaction signal occurrence tally is based on short term interaction signal data retrieved from a group-based communication repository.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the interaction signal metadata further comprises one or more of a user identifier, an organization identifier, a team identifier, or a timestamp.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the universal record locator (URL) identifier is associated with universal record locator (URL) text.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, further caused to parse the universal record locator (URL) text to extract strings representing words and tally each inclusion of each word across all universal record locator (URL) texts within a group-based communication system, wherein the interaction signal trends interface is generated based in part on the tally and the universal record locator (URL) text.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein sentiment is associated with each word based on an aggregate sentiment of all universal record locator (URL) texts within which the word has been included, and wherein the interaction signal trends interface is generated based in part on one or more identified sentiments associated with the universal record locator (URL) texts.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, further caused to select only those interaction signals associated with a common team identifier.
12. The apparatus of claim 1, further caused to select only those interaction signals associated with a common organization identifier.
13. The apparatus of claim 1, further caused to select only those interaction signals associated with a timestamp occurring within a defined network time period.
14. The apparatus of claim 8, further caused to: parse the universal record locator (URL) text to extract strings representing one or more of word pairs or tuples, words associated with particular topics, a group of words associated with a particular topic, or truncation of words or phrases associated with particular topics; and tally each inclusion of each string across all universal record locator (URL) texts within a group-based communication system, wherein the interaction signal trends interface is generated based in part on the tally and the universal record locator (URL) text.
15. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the universal record locator (URL) text comprises custom shortened universal record locator (URL) text.
16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a message comprising the universal record locator (URL) identifier is associated with message text.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, further caused to parse the message text to extract strings representing words and tally each inclusion of each word across all messages comprising the universal record locator (URL) identifier within a group-based communication system, wherein the interaction signal trends interface is generated based in part on the tally and the universal record locator (URL) identifier.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein sentiment is associated with each word based on an aggregate sentiment of all message texts within which the word has been included.
19. The apparatus of claim 16, further caused to: parse the message text to extract strings representing one or more of word pairs or tuples, words associated with particular topics, a group of words associated with a particular topic, or truncation of words or phrases associated with particular topics; and tally each inclusion of each string across all messages comprising the universal record locator (URL) identifier within a group-based communication system, wherein the interaction signal trends interface is generated based in part on the tally and the message text.
20. The apparatus of claim 8, further caused to: parse the universal record locator (URL) text to extract a prefix; and tally each inclusion of the prefix across all messages comprising the universal record locator (URL) identifier within a group-based communication system, wherein the interaction signal trends interface is generated based in part on the tally and the prefix.
21. The apparatus of claim 20, further caused to: tally each inclusion of the prefix across only those messages comprising the universal record locator (URL) identifier that are also associated with one or more of a common team identifier, a common group identifier, or a common user identifier within the group-based communication system.
22. The apparatus of claim 15, further caused to: parse the custom shortened universal record locator (URL) text to extract strings representing one or more of word pairs or tuples, words associated with particular topics, a group of words associated with a particular topic, or truncation of words or phrases associated with particular topics; and tally each inclusion of each string across all custom shortened universal record locator (URL) texts within a group-based communication system, wherein the interaction signal trends interface is generated based in part on the tally and the custom shortened universal record locator (URL) text.
23. A computer program product comprising at least one computer-readable storage medium storing computer code that, with an apparatus, cause the apparatus to: for each interaction signal of a plurality of interaction signals, extract interaction signal metadata into an interaction signal data structure of a plurality of interaction signal data structures, wherein the interaction signal metadata comprises an interaction source type, an interaction source identifier, and an interaction type; for each interaction signal data structure record of the plurality of interaction signal data structures comprising an interaction source identifier associated with a first universal record locator (URL) identifier, generate an interaction signal occurrence divergence measure based at least in part on a predicted short term interaction signal occurrence tally and an actual short term interaction signal occurrence tally; and assign an interaction signal data structure record rank value to the interaction signal data structure record based at least in part on the interaction signal occurrence divergence measure; arrange in an ordered interaction signal data structures list each of the interaction signal data structures in an order according to their interaction signal data structure record rank values; and transmit an interaction signal trends interface for rendering within a display device of a requesting client device, wherein the interaction signal trends interface is generated based in part on the ordered interaction signal data structures list.
24. A computer-implemented method, comprising: for each interaction signal of a plurality of interaction signals, extracting interaction signal metadata into an interaction signal data structure of a plurality of interaction signal data structures, wherein the interaction signal metadata comprises an interaction source type, an interaction source identifier, and an interaction type; for each interaction signal data structure record of the plurality of interaction signal data structures comprising an interaction source identifier associated with a first universal record locator (URL) identifier, generating an interaction signal occurrence divergence measure based at least in part on a predicted short term interaction signal occurrence tally and an actual short term interaction signal occurrence tally; and assigning an interaction signal data structure record rank value to the interaction signal data structure record based at least in part on the interaction signal occurrence divergence measure; arranging in an ordered interaction signal data structures list each of the interaction signal data structures in an order according to their interaction signal data structure record rank values; and transmitting an interaction signal trends interface for rendering within a display device of a requesting client device, wherein the interaction signal trends interface is generated based in part on the ordered interaction signal data structures list.
</claims>
</document>
