<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-04
</priority_date>

<assignee>
HERE GLOBAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
VISWANATHAN, ANIRUDH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70052171
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD, APPARATUS, AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING QUALITY ASSURANCE FOR MAP FEATURE LOCALIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
An approach is provided for quality assurance of map feature localization. The approach involves, for example, processing sensor data collected from a plurality of vehicles to aggregate a plurality of features indicated in the sensor data into a feature set. The approach also involves clustering the feature set into a plurality of feature clusters. The approach further involves determining a consensus pattern based on the plurality of feature clusters. The approach further involves determining at least one feature cluster of the plurality of feature clusters that does not match the consensus pattern. The approach further involves automatically designating the sensor data corresponding to the at least one feature cluster as inaccurate sensor data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: processing sensor data collected from a plurality of vehicles to aggregate a plurality of features indicated in the sensor data into a feature set; clustering the feature set into a plurality of feature clusters; determining a consensus pattern based on the plurality of feature clusters; determining at least one feature cluster of the plurality of feature clusters that does not match the consensus pattern; and automatically designating the sensor data corresponding to the at least one feature cluster as inaccurate sensor data.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: filtering the inaccurate sensor data from the sensor data; and processing the filtered sensor data to generate a map update.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the consensus pattern is determined based on an overlap of the plurality of features.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: registering the sensor data to a digital map to determine location data for the plurality of features, wherein the clustering of the feature set is based on the location data.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the registering of the sensor data to the digital map comprises lane-level localization of the plurality of features.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprising: processing the location data of the filtered sensor data corresponding to the consensus pattern to determine a consensus location for a map feature corresponding to the plurality of features.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor data is collected with respect to individual drives of the plurality of vehicles.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the aggregating of the plurality of features, the clustering of the feature set, the determining of the consensus pattern, the determining of the at least one feature cluster, the designating of the sensor data corresponding to the at least one feature cluster, or a combination thereof is based on determining that a count of the individual drives represented in the sensor data is greater than a threshold value.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor data is crowd-sourced from the plurality of vehicles.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor data includes satellite-based location data, odometry-based location data, or a combination thereof.
11. An apparatus comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more programs, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to perform at least the following, process sensor data collected from a plurality of vehicles to aggregate a plurality of features indicated in the sensor data into a feature set; cluster the feature set into a plurality of feature clusters; determine a consensus pattern based on the plurality of feature clusters; determine at least one feature cluster of the plurality of feature clusters that does not match the consensus pattern; and automatically designate the sensor data corresponding to the at least one feature cluster as inaccurate sensor data.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: filter the inaccurate sensor data from the sensor data; and process the filtered sensor data to generate a map update.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: register the sensor data to a digital map to determine location data for the plurality of features, wherein the clustering of the feature set is based on the location data.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: process the location data of the filtered sensor data corresponding to the consensus pattern to determine a consensus location for a map feature corresponding to the plurality of features.
15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the aggregating of the plurality of features, the clustering of the feature set, the determining of the consensus pattern, the determining of the at least one feature cluster, the designating of the sensor data corresponding to the at least one feature cluster, or a combination thereof is based on determining that a count of individual drives represented in the sensor data is greater than a threshold value.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause an apparatus to perform: processing sensor data collected from a plurality of vehicles to aggregate a plurality of features indicated in the sensor data into a feature set; clustering the feature set into a plurality of feature clusters; determining a consensus pattern based on the plurality of feature clusters; determining at least one feature cluster of the plurality of feature clusters that does not match the consensus pattern; and automatically designating the sensor data corresponding to the at least one feature cluster as inaccurate sensor data.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the apparatus is further caused to perform: filtering the inaccurate sensor data from the sensor data; and processing the filtered sensor data to generate a map update.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the apparatus is further caused to perform: registering the sensor data to a digital map to determine location data for the plurality of features, wherein the clustering of the feature set is based on the location data.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the apparatus is further caused to perform: processing the location data of the filtered sensor data corresponding to the consensus pattern to determine a consensus location for a map feature corresponding to the plurality of features.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the aggregating of the plurality of features, the clustering of the feature set, the determining of the consensus pattern, the determining of the at least one feature cluster, the designating of the sensor data corresponding to the at least one feature cluster, or a combination thereof is based on determining that a count of individual drives represented in the sensor data is greater than a threshold value.
</claims>
</document>
