<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01J1/02,G01J1/42,G01W1/10,G05B15/02,H02J3/14,H02J3/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
KALYANARAMAN, SHIVKUMAR
BHARADWAJ, SAMARTH
SIDDIQUI, TALHA AHMAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69101957
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Operating Re-Configurable Solar Energy Generators for Increasing Yield During Non-Ideal Weather Conditions
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and computer program products for operating re-configurable solar energy generators for increasing yield during non-ideal weather conditions are provided herein. A computer-implemented method includes determining, for each of multiple portions of the sky, by using one or more machine learning algorithms, a respective level of diffuse irradiance corresponding to image data from that portion; identifying one or more portions of the image data corresponding to the multiple portions of sky image data that include a higher level of diffuse irradiance, as compared to other portions of the image data; and configuring one or more solar photovoltaic modules based at least in part on the one or more identified portions of image data that include a higher level of diffuse irradiance.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising steps of: determining, for each of multiple portions of the sky, by using one or more machine learning algorithms, a respective level of diffuse irradiance corresponding to image data from that portion, wherein the one or more machine learning algorithms comprise at least one regression function that analyzes irradiance vectors from image data corresponding to the multiple portions of the sky, and wherein said determining comprises, for the image data corresponding to each of the multiple portions of the sky, decoupling an irradiance vector into (i) a direct irradiance component and (ii) a diffuse irradiance component; identifying one or more portions of the image data corresponding to the multiple portions of sky image data that include a higher level of diffuse irradiance, as compared to other portions of the image data; and configuring one or more solar photovoltaic modules based at least in part on the one or more identified portions of image data that include a higher level of diffuse irradiance; wherein the steps are carried out by at least one computing device.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the image data comprise image data attributed to at least one clear sky region.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the image data comprise image data attributed to at least one sky region containing one or more clouds.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: capturing the image data via one or more sky cameras.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the one or more sky cameras comprise at least one of (i) one or more infrared cameras, (ii) one or more near-infrared cameras, (iii) one or more thermal cameras, and (iv) one or more cameras having lenses with different focal lengths.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: configuring one or more add-on features to the one or more solar photovoltaic modules based at least in part on the one or more identified portions of image data that include a higher level of diffuse irradiance.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the one or more add-on features to the one or more solar photovoltaic modules comprises at least one of (i) one or more reflectors and (ii) one or more mirrors.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: repeating (i) said determining, (ii) said identifying, and (iii) said configuring for one or more additional iterations.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: predicting, based at least in part on the determined level of diffuse irradiance corresponding to image data from each of the multiple portions of the sky, a respective future level of diffuse irradiance corresponding to image data from each of the multiple portions of the sky.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, comprising: configuring one or more solar photovoltaic modules based at least in part on (i) the one or more identified portions of image data that include a higher level of diffuse irradiance and (ii) the predicted future level of diffuse irradiance corresponding to image data from each of the multiple portions of the sky.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, comprising: configuring one or more add-on features to the one or more solar photovoltaic modules based at least in part on (i) the one or more identified portions of image data that include a higher level of diffuse irradiance and (ii) the predicted future level of diffuse irradiance corresponding to image data from each of the multiple portions of the sky.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: determining, using one or more machine learning algorithms, a respective level of diffuse irradiance corresponding to each of one or more terrain elements.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, comprising: configuring one or more solar photovoltaic modules based at least in part on (i) the one or more identified portions of image data that include a higher level of diffuse irradiance and (ii) the determined level of diffuse irradiance corresponding to each of the one or more terrain elements.
14. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to: determine, for each of multiple portions of the sky, by using one or more machine learning algorithms, a respective level of diffuse irradiance corresponding to image data from that portion, wherein the one or more machine learning algorithms comprise at least one regression function that analyzes irradiance vectors from image data corresponding to the multiple portions of the sky, and wherein said determining comprises, for the image data corresponding to each of the multiple portions of the sky, decoupling an irradiance vector into (i) a direct irradiance component and (ii) a diffuse irradiance component; identify one or more portions of the image data corresponding to the multiple portions of sky image data that include a higher level of diffuse irradiance, as compared to other portions of the image data; and configure one or more solar photovoltaic modules based at least in part on the one or more identified portions of image data that include a higher level of diffuse irradiance.
15. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the program instructions executable by a computing device further cause the computing device to: configure one or more add-on features to the one or more solar photovoltaic modules based at least in part on the one or more identified portions of image data that include a higher level of diffuse irradiance.
16. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the program instructions executable by a computing device further cause the computing device to: predict, based at least in part on the determined level of diffuse irradiance corresponding to image data from each of the multiple portions of the sky, a respective future level of diffuse irradiance corresponding to image data from each of the multiple portions of the sky.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the program instructions executable by a computing device further cause the computing device to: configure one or more solar photovoltaic modules based at least in part on (i) the one or more identified portions of image data that include a higher level of diffuse irradiance and (ii) the predicted future level of diffuse irradiance corresponding to image data from each of the multiple portions of the sky.
18. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the program instructions executable by a computing device further cause the computing device to: configure one or more add-on features to the one or more solar photovoltaic modules based at least in part on (i) the one or more identified portions of image data that include a higher level of diffuse irradiance and (ii) the predicted future level of diffuse irradiance corresponding to image data from each of the multiple portions of the sky.
19. A system comprising: a memory; and at least one processor operably coupled to the memory and configured for: determining, for each of multiple portions of the sky, by using one or more machine learning algorithms, a respective level of diffuse irradiance corresponding to image data from that portion, wherein the one or more machine learning algorithms comprise at least one regression function that analyzes irradiance vectors from image data corresponding to the multiple portions of the sky, and wherein said determining comprises, for the image data corresponding to each of the multiple portions of the sky, decoupling an irradiance vector into (i) a direct irradiance component and (ii) a diffuse irradiance component; identifying one or more portions of the image data corresponding to the multiple portions of sky image data that include a higher level of diffuse irradiance, as compared to other portions of the image data; and configuring one or more solar photovoltaic modules based at least in part on the one or more identified portions of image data that include a higher level of diffuse irradiance.
20. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising steps of: generating a machine learning model for determining irradiance levels, wherein the machine learning model is based at least in part on (i) sky image data captured over a temporal period and (ii) one or more weather conditions, corresponding to the sky image data, sensed over the temporal period; capturing, using multiple cameras, image data specific to one or more regions of sky; sensing one or more transient weather conditions at geographic regions corresponding to the one or more regions of sky; applying the machine learning model to (i) the captured image data specific to the one or more regions of sky and (ii) the one or more transient weather conditions sensed at the geographic regions corresponding to the one or more regions of sky; outputting, based on implementation of the machine learning model, (i) sector-by-sector levels of produced diffuse irradiance and (ii) sector-by-sector levels of produced direct irradiance; and configuring one or more solar photovoltaic modules based at least in part on (i) the sector-by-sector levels of produced diffuse irradiance and (ii) the sector-by-sector levels of produced direct irradiance; wherein the steps are carried out by at least one computing device.
</claims>
</document>
