<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06Q50/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BATHAEE, YAVAR
</assignee>

<inventors>
BATHAEE, YAVAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69102204
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Generating Predictions of Outcomes of Legal Arguments and Events Using Unstructured Natural Language Data
</title>

<abstract>
Computer implemented methods and systems are disclosed for obtaining predictions of legal events, such as legal and factual arguments presented to courts, juries or other adjudicative or fact-finding bodies, using machine-learning algorithms, wherein (i) unstructured data, such as natural language text from documents, such as pleadings, briefs or corpuses of evidence are converted into tokens, vectors and/or embeddings; (ii) the machine-learning algorithm(s) are provided the converted unstructured data as inputs; and (iii) the machine-learning algorithms provide confidence or probability scores predicting outcomes of legal events, such as legal proceedings or one or more legal or factual issues to be decided by particular adjudicators, tribunals or fact-finding bodies.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of predicting an outcome of one or more legal events, and generating a confidence or probability score for the predicted outcome using a machine-learning algorithm, the method comprising: receiving, by one or more data processors, textual input containing natural language from a corpus of documents; converting, by one or more data processors, the textual input from each document in the corpus of documents into a numerical matrix corresponding to a vocabulary of at least one of words and phrases that appear in the corpus of documents; creating, by one or more data processors, a map of outcomes of at least one of the one or more legal events to each individual document in the corpus of documents; training, by one or more data processors, one or more machine-learning algorithms to predict an outcome assigned to each document or document set in the corpus of documents; providing, by one or more data processors, a test or validation corpus to each of the one or more machine-learning algorithms as an input to validate and test the one or more machine-learning algorithms and measure an accuracy of the prediction by each of the one or more machine-learning algorithms; providing, by one or more data processors, one or more natural language documents to the trained machine-learning algorithm and receiving a confidence score for the outcome of at least one of the one or more legal events; and displaying, by one or more data processors, the confidence score for each legal event on a graphical user interface or in a written report.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine-learning algorithm includes: one or more layers of artificial neural networks that are connected in parallel or in series, resulting in an output a numerical score associated with a single or plurality of outcomes of legal events.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine-learning algorithm includes: one or more layers of convolutional neural networks that are connected in parallel or in series, resulting in an output a numerical score associated with a single or plurality of outcomes of legal events.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine-learning algorithm includes: one or more layers recurrent neural networks that are connected in parallel or in series, resulting in an output a numerical score associated with a single or plurality of outcomes of legal events.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine-learning algorithm includes: one or more inception layers that are connected in parallel or in series, resulting in an output a numerical score associated with a single or plurality of outcomes of legal events.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine-learning algorithm includes: one or more support vector machines that are connected in parallel or in series with each other or other machine-learning algorithms, resulting in an output a numerical confidence score associated with a single or plurality of outcomes of legal events.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the textual input from each document in the corpus is converted into a numerical matrix using an embedded layer of artificial neurons.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the textual input from each document in the corpus is converted into a numerical matrix using a tokenizer that associates a given word or phrase appearing in the corpus to a numerical value or vector of numerical values.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the confidence score produced is a number reflecting the probability of a positive or negative outcome for a legal argument or issue ranging from a scaled factor of a real number that ranges from 0 to 1.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the output produced is a real number indicating the degree of confidence that one or more legal events will or will not occur.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the output is used to generate legal documents or pleadings containing relevant arguments or legal standards.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising generating, by one or more processors, legal documents or pleadings containing at least one of relevant arguments and relevant legal standards based on the outcome and the confidence score.
13. A computer system for predicting the outcome of legal events and generating a confidence or probability score for the predicted outcome using a machine learning algorithm, the computer system comprising: one or more processors; storage media; and one or more programs stored in the storage media for execution by the one or more processors, the one or more programs comprising instructions for: receiving textual input containing natural language from a corpus of documents; converting the textual input from each document in the corpus of documents into a numerical matrix corresponding to a vocabulary of words and/or phrases that appear in the corpus of documents; creating a map of outcomes of at least one of the one or more legal events to each individual document in the corpus of documents; training one or more machine-learning algorithms to predict an outcome assigned to each document or document set in the corpus of documents; providing a test or validation corpus to each of the one or more machine-learning algorithms as an input to validate and test the one or more machine-learning algorithms and measure the accuracy of each of the one or more machine-learning algorithms' prediction; providing one or more natural language documents to the trained machine-learning algorithm and receiving a confidence score or probability value for the outcome of at least one of the one or more legal events; and displaying the confidence score for each legal event on a graphical user interface or in a written report.
14. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the machine-learning algorithm includes: one or more layers of artificial neural networks that are connected in parallel or in series, resulting in an output a numerical score or probability value associated with a single or plurality of outcomes of legal events.
15. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the machine-learning algorithm includes: one or more layers of convolutional neural networks that are connected in parallel or in series, resulting in an output a numerical score or probability value associated with a single or plurality of outcomes of legal events.
16. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the machine-learning algorithm includes: one or more layers of recurrent neural networks that are connected in parallel or in series, resulting in an output a numerical score or probability value associated with a single or plurality of outcomes of legal events.
17. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the machine-learning algorithm includes: one or more inception layers that are connected in parallel or in series, resulting in an output a numerical score or probability value associated with a single or plurality of outcomes of legal events.
18. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the machine-learning algorithm includes: one or more support vector machines that are connected in parallel or in series with each other or other machine-learning algorithms, resulting in an output a numerical score or probability value associated with a single or plurality of outcomes of legal events.
19. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the textual input from each document in the corpus is converted into a numerical matrix using an embedded layer that associates a given word or phrase appearing in the corpus to a numerical value or vector of numerical values.
20. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the textual input from each document in the corpus is converted into a numerical matrix using a tokenizer that associates a given word or phrase appearing in the corpus to a numerical value or vector of numerical values.
21. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the confidence score produced is a number reflecting the probability of a positive or negative outcome for a legal event ranging from a scaled factor of a real number that ranges from 0 to 1.
22. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the output produced is a real number indicating the degree of confidence that one or more legal events will or will not occur.
23. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the instructions include instructions to generate legal documents or pleadings containing relevant arguments or legal standards based on the output.
24. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the one or more programs comprise further instructions for using one or more generative neural networks to generate legal documents or pleadings containing relevant arguments or legal standards based on the output.
</claims>
</document>
