<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDERSON, ERIK D.
ANGLIN, HOWARD N.
ARCURI, ANTHONY J.
PALISTRANT, JAMES C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69883230
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Enhanced Knowledge Delivery and Attainment Using a Question Answering System
</title>

<abstract>
A mechanism is provided in a data processing system for presentation delivery. The mechanism delivering a presentation content to a group of users and receives a plurality of questions concerning the presentation content from the group of users. The mechanism stores the plurality of questions in a question history database and clusters the plurality of questions in the question history database into one or more question clusters. The mechanism determines a topic for each of the one or more question clusters to form one or more question topics and generates feedback for updating the presentation content based on the one or more question topics.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, in a data processing system having a processor and a memory, wherein the memory comprises instructions which are executed by the processor to cause the processor to implement a question answering system for presentation delivery, the method comprising: delivering a presentation content by a presenter to a group of users; receiving, by the question answering system, a plurality of questions concerning the presentation content from the group of users; storing, by the question answering system, question information for the plurality of questions in a question history database, wherein the question information comprise question text, one or more candidate answers, and supplemental information from the corpus of information providing evidentiary support for the one or more candidate answers; clustering, by a clustering component executing within the question answering system, the plurality of questions in the question history database into one or more question clusters based on similarity of question features and answer features; determining, by the question answering system, a topic for each of the one or more question clusters to form one or more question topics; generating, by the feedback generating component, feedback based on the one or more question topics, wherein the feedback comprises the supplemental information that is in the question history database but not contained in the presentation content; and providing by the question answering system, the feedback to the presenter.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating feedback comprises generating alerts to the presenter to alter the presentation based on the one or more question topics.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein clustering the plurality of questions comprises: extracting a set of features from each question within the plurality of questions, wherein each feature in the set of features has a feature value; and performing a clustering operation on the plurality of questions to group questions having similar feature values.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein performing the clustering operation on the plurality of questions comprises performing a k-means clustering algorithm on the plurality of questions.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the set of features comprise a lexical answer type, a focus, and a question classification.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: for each received question, generating, by the question answering system, one or more candidate answers; and presenting, by the question answering system, a highest confidence answer within the one or more candidate answers to a user that submitted the received question.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein presenting the one or more candidate answers comprises presenting supplemental information not contained in the presentation content to the user.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein clustering the plurality of questions comprises: extracting a set of features from each question within the plurality of questions and each candidate answer, wherein each feature in the set of features has a feature value; and performing a clustering operation on the plurality of questions, wherein the clustering operation groups questions having similar feature values.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the feedback comprises: for each question grouped in a given question topic, incrementing a topic counter; responsive to the topic counter exceeding a first threshold, generating the feedback identifying the supplemental information for the given question topic not contained in the presentation content.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the supplemental information comprises evidentiary support for one or more candidate answers generated for questions in the given question topic.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein generating the feedback further comprises: responsive to the topic counter exceeding a second threshold, generating the feedback identifying customized presentation content redirection the delivery of the presentation content to the group of users based on the one or more question clusters.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the supplemental information comprises evidentiary support for one or more candidate answers generated for questions in the given question topic.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the presentation content is customized for the group of users based on one or more user profiles of the group of users.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising updating the one or more user profiles based on the one or more question topics.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein generating the feedback comprises generating the feedback for the group of users based on the one or more updated user profiles.
16. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having a computer readable program stored therein, wherein the computer readable program, when executed on a computing device, causes the computing device to implement a question answering system for presentation delivery, wherein the computer readable program causes the computing device to: deliver a presentation content by a presenter to a group of users; receive, by the question answering system a plurality of questions concerning the presentation content from the group of users; store, by the question answering system, question information for the plurality of questions in a question history database wherein the question information comprises question text, one or more candidate answers, and supplemental information from the corpus of information providing evidentiary support for the one or more candidate answers; cluster, by a clustering component executing within the question answering system, the plurality of questions in the question history database into one or more question clusters; determine, by the question answering system, a topic for each of the one or more question clusters to form one or more question topics; generate, by the question answering system, feedback based on the one or more question topics, wherein the feedback comprises the supplemental information that is in the question history database but not contained in the presentation content; and provide, by the question answering system, the feedback to the presenter.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein clustering the plurality of questions comprises: extracting a set of features from each question within the plurality of questions, wherein each feature in the set of features has a feature value; and performing a clustering operation on the plurality of questions, wherein the clustering operation groups questions having similar feature values.
18. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein generating feedback for updating the presentation content comprises: for each question grouped in a given question topic, incrementing a topic counter; responsive to the topic counter exceeding a first threshold, generating the feedback identifying supplemental information for the given question topic not contained in the presentation content.
19. An apparatus comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor, wherein the memory comprises instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to implement a question answering system for presentation delivery, wherein the instructions cause the processor to: deliver a presentation content by a presenter to a group of users; receive, by the question answering system, a plurality of questions concerning the presentation content from the group of users; store, by the question answering system, question information for the plurality of questions in a question history database, wherein the question information comprises question text, one or more candidate answers, and supplemental information from the corpus of information providing evidentiary support for the one or more candidate answers; cluster, by a clustering component executing within the question answering system, the plurality of questions in the question history database into one or more question clusters; determine, by the question answering system, a topic for each of the one or more question clusters to form one or more question topics; generate, by the question answering system, feedback based on the one or more question topics, wherein the feedback comprises the supplemental information that is in the question history database but not contained in the presentation content; and provide, by the question answering system, the feedback to the presenter.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein clustering the plurality of questions comprises: extracting a set of features from each question within the plurality of questions, wherein each feature in the set of features has a feature value; and performing a clustering operation on the plurality of questions, wherein the clustering operation groups questions having similar feature values.
</claims>
</document>
