<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N10/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, Jianxin
ZHANG, Fang
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606069
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR OPTIMIZING QUANTUM CIRCUITS
</title>

<abstract>
Pauli rotation gate.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for updating a quantum circuit, comprising: transforming an initial quantum circuit into a corresponding intermediate quantum circuit, wherein the intermediate quantum circuit is a first set of Pauli rotation gates followed by a first Clifford gate; and generating an updated quantum circuit having a second set of Pauli rotation gates followed by a second Clifford gate, by, for each Pauli rotation gate in the first set of Pauli rotation gates: inserting a new Pauli rotation gate after the second set of Pauli rotation gates, wherein the new Pauli rotation gate corresponds to the current Pauli rotation gate in the first set of Pauli rotation gates conjugated by the second Clifford gate and the conjugate transpose of the second Clifford gate, scanning through the second set of Pauli rotation gates to determine if there is a matching Pauli rotation gate before a non-commuting Pauli rotation gate, and responsive to determining that there is a matching Pauli rotation gate: removing the matching Pauli rotation gate and new Pauli rotation gate from the second set of Pauli rotation gates and, if the matching Pauli rotation gate and new Pauli rotation gate have opposite signs, replacing the second Clifford gate with a new Clifford gate, wherein the new Clifford gate corresponds to the current second Clifford gate conjugated by the new Pauli rotation gate.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising replacing the second Clifford gate with a second new Clifford gate, wherein the second new Clifford gate is the current second Clifford gate conjugated with the first Clifford gate.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein transforming the initial quantum circuit into the corresponding intermediate quantum circuit comprises: transforming each T gate in the first quantum circuit into a corresponding Pauli rotation gate; utilizing the invariance of Pauli rotation gates under commutation with Clifford gates to shift all Clifford gates in the first quantum circuit to the back of the equation; and combining the Clifford gates in the first quantum circuit into a corresponding single Clifford gate.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the initial quantum circuit has other transformations or optimizations applied before transforming the initial quantum circuit into the corresponding intermediate circuit.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the initial quantum circuit is not exactly representable by a Clifford+T circuit and further comprising: before transforming the initial quantum circuit into the corresponding intermediate quantum circuit, transforming the initial quantum circuit into a form that is representable by a Clifford+T circuit.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein transforming the initial quantum circuit into a form that is representable by a Clifford+T circuit involves using ancilla qubits.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising returning the updated quantum circuit as an updated version of the initial quantum circuit.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the updated quantum circuit has other transformations or optimizations applied before returning the updated quantum circuit.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising before returning the updated quantum circuit as an updated version of the initial quantum circuit, transforming the updated quantum circuit into an equivalent Clifford+T circuit.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein determining that there is a matching Pauli rotation gate involves evaluating the efficiency gains from using the matching Pauli rotation gate balanced against the constraints of a target quantum hardware.
11. A system for updating a quantum circuit, comprising: a memory storing a set of instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the set of instructions to cause the system to perform: transforming an initial quantum circuit into a corresponding intermediate quantum circuit, wherein the intermediate quantum circuit is a first set of Pauli rotation gates followed by a first Clifford gate; and generating an updated quantum circuit having a second set of Pauli rotation gates followed by a second Clifford gate, by, for each Pauli rotation gate in the first set of Pauli rotation gates: inserting a new Pauli rotation gate after the second set of Pauli rotation gates, wherein the new Pauli rotation gate corresponds to the current Pauli rotation gate in the first set of Pauli rotation gates conjugated by the second Clifford gate and the conjugate transpose of the second Clifford gate, scanning through the second set of Pauli rotation gates to determine if there is a matching Pauli rotation gate before a non-commuting Pauli rotation gate, and responsive to determining that there is a matching Pauli rotation gate: removing the matching Pauli rotation gate and new Pauli rotation gate from the second set of Pauli rotation gates and, if the matching Pauli rotation gate and new Pauli rotation gate have opposite signs, replacing the second Clifford gate with a new Clifford gate, wherein the new Clifford gate corresponds to the current second Clifford gate conjugated by the new Pauli rotation gate.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the set of instructions is executable by the one or more processors to cause the system to further perform: replacing the second Clifford gate with a second new Clifford gate, wherein the second new Clifford gate is the current second Clifford gate conjugated with the first Clifford gate.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein transforming the initial quantum circuit into the corresponding intermediate quantum circuit comprises: transforming each T gate in the first quantum circuit into a corresponding Pauli rotation gate; utilizing the invariance of Pauli rotation gates under commutation with Clifford gates to shift all Clifford gates in the first quantum circuit to the back of the equation; and combining the Clifford gates in the first quantum circuit into a corresponding single Clifford gate.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the initial quantum circuit is not exactly representable by a Clifford+T circuit and wherein the set of instructions is executable by the one or more processors to cause the system to further perform: before transforming the initial quantum circuit into the corresponding intermediate quantum circuit, transforming the initial quantum circuit into a form that is representable by a Clifford+T circuit.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the set of instructions is executable by the one or more processors to cause the system to further perform: before returning the updated quantum circuit as an updated version of the initial quantum circuit, transforming the updated quantum circuit into an equivalent Clifford+T circuit.
16. A non-transitory computer readable medium that stores a set of instructions that is executable by at least one processor of a computer system to cause the computer system to perform a method for performing inference with a neural network, the method comprising: transforming an initial quantum circuit into a corresponding intermediate quantum circuit, wherein the intermediate quantum circuit is a first set of Pauli rotation gates followed by a first Clifford gate; and generating an updated quantum circuit having a second set of Pauli rotation gates followed by a second Clifford gate, by, for each Pauli rotation gate in the first set of Pauli rotation gates: inserting a new Pauli rotation gate after the second set of Pauli rotation gates, wherein the new Pauli rotation gate corresponds to the current Pauli rotation gate in the first set of Pauli rotation gates conjugated by the second Clifford gate and the conjugate transpose of the second Clifford gate, scanning through the second set of Pauli rotation gates to determine if there is a matching Pauli rotation gate before a non-commuting Pauli rotation gate, and responsive to determining that there is a matching Pauli rotation gate: removing the matching Pauli rotation gate and new Pauli rotation gate from the second set of Pauli rotation gates and, if the matching Pauli rotation gate and new Pauli rotation gate have opposite signs, replacing the second Clifford gate with a new Clifford gate, wherein the new Clifford gate corresponds to the current second Clifford gate conjugated by the new Pauli rotation gate.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the set of instructions is executable by the at least one processor of the computer system to cause the computer system to further perform: replacing the second Clifford gate with a second new Clifford gate, wherein the second new Clifford gate is the current second Clifford gate conjugated with the first Clifford gate.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein transforming the initial quantum circuit into the corresponding intermediate quantum circuit comprises: transforming each T gate in the first quantum circuit into a corresponding Pauli rotation gate; utilizing the invariance of Pauli rotation gates under commutation with Clifford gates to shift all Clifford gates in the first quantum circuit to the back of the equation; and combining the Clifford gates in the first quantum circuit into a corresponding single Clifford gate.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the initial quantum circuit is not exactly representable by a Clifford+T circuit and wherein the set of instructions is executable by the at least one processor of the computer system to cause the computer system to further perform: before transforming the initial quantum circuit into the corresponding intermediate quantum circuit, transforming the initial quantum circuit into a form that is representable by a Clifford+T circuit.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the set of instructions is executable by the at least one processor of the computer system to cause the computer system to further perform: before returning the updated quantum circuit as an updated version of the initial quantum circuit, transforming the updated quantum circuit into an equivalent Clifford+T circuit.
</claims>
</document>
