<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DSI DIGITAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUGHES, ANTHONY MITCHELL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70848736
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA INTERACTION PLATFORMS UTILIZING DYNAMIC RELATIONAL AWARENESS
</title>

<abstract>
There is a need for more effective and efficient data modeling and/or data visualization solutions. This need can be addressed by, for example, solutions for performing data modeling and/or data visualization in an effective and efficient manner. In one example, solutions for generating a data model with dynamic relational awareness are disclosed. In another example, solutions for processing data retrieval queries using data models with dynamic relational awareness are disclosed. In yet another example, solutions for generating data visualizations using data models with dynamic relational awareness are disclosed. In a further example, solutions for integrating external data objects into data models with dynamic relational awareness are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented for integrating an external data object into a data model with dynamic relational awareness for a data interaction platform comprising a plurality of integrated data object relationships between a plurality of integrated data objects, the computer-implemented method comprising: generating one or more object integration parameters for the external data object; generating, based at least in part on the one or more object integration parameters, one or more unintegrated data object relationships, wherein: (i) each unintegrated data object relationship of the one or more unintegrated data object relationships is associated with one or more related data objects, and (ii) the one or more related data objects associated with an unintegrated data object relationship of the one or more unintegrated data object relationships comprise the external data object and at least one of the plurality of integrated data objects; and for each unintegrated data object relationship of the one or more unintegrated data object relationships: generating one or more relational absorption parameters for the unintegrated data object relationship, and generating, based at least in part on the one or more relational absorption parameters, a respective relational awareness score for the unintegrated data object relationship with respect to each related data object of the one or more related data objects that is associated with the unintegrated data object relationship.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more object integration parameters for the external data object comprise one or more entity-type-defining parameters for the external data object.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: the one or more object integration parameters for the external data object comprise an individual absorption score for the external data object; and the individual absorption score of the external data object indicates an estimated relational awareness capacity of the external data object given one or more individual attributes of the external data object.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: the one or more object integration parameters for the external data object comprise a hierarchical absorption score for the external data object; and the hierarchical absorption score of the external data object is determined based at least in part on each individual absorption score for a parent data object that is a hierarchical parent of the external data object.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: the one or more object integration parameters for the external data object comprise an operational absorption score for the external data object; and the operational absorption score of the external data object is determined based at least in part on each individual absorption score for a related data object that is operationally related to the external data object.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: the one or more object integration parameters for the external data object comprise an environment-based absorption score for the external data object; and the environment-based absorption score of the external data object indicates an estimated relational significance of the external data object to an environment state of the data interaction platform.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the one or more unintegrated data object relationships comprises: mapping the one or more object integration parameters to a relationship extrapolation space of the plurality of integrated data objects, wherein the relationship extrapolation space is comprising one or more input dimensions associated with the one or more object integration parameters and one or more output dimensions associated with one or more candidate data object relationship types; and determining the one or more unintegrated data object relationships based at least in part on the relationship extrapolation space.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the one or more relational absorption parameters for an unintegrated data object relationship of the one or more unintegrated data object relationships comprises generating the one or more relational absorption parameters based at least in part on the one or more object integration parameters.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, generating each relational awareness score for an unintegrated data object relationship of the one or more unintegrated data object relationships comprises: mapping the one or more relational absorption parameters for the unintegrated data object relationship to a relational score extrapolation score for the plurality of integrated data object relationships, wherein the relational score extrapolation space is comprising one or more input dimensions associated with the one or more relational absorption parameters and one or more output dimensions associated with one or more relational awareness parameters; and determining the relational awareness score based at least in part on the one or more relational awareness parameters.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more object integration parameters are generated using an online learning model configured to process user interaction data with the external data object outside of the data interaction platform to generate the one or more object integration parameters.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the online learning model is a follow-the-regularized-leader model.
12. An apparatus for integrating an external data object into a data model with dynamic relational awareness for a data interaction platform comprising a plurality of integrated data object relationships between a plurality of integrated data objects, the apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory including program code, the at least one memory and the program code configured to, with the processor, cause the apparatus to at least: generate one or more object integration parameters for the external data object; generate, based at least in part on the one or more object integration parameters, one or more unintegrated data object relationships, wherein: (i) each unintegrated data object relationship of the one or more unintegrated data object relationships is associated with one or more related data objects, and (ii) the one or more related data objects associated with an unintegrated data object relationship of the one or more unintegrated data object relationships comprise the external data object and at least one of the plurality of integrated data objects; and for each unintegrated data object relationship of the one or more unintegrated data object relationships: generate one or more relational absorption parameters for the unintegrated data object relationship, and generate, based at least in part on the one or more relational absorption parameters, a respective relational awareness score for the unintegrated data object relationship with respect to each related data object of the one or more related data objects that is associated with the unintegrated data object relationship.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the one or more object integration parameters for the external data object comprise one or more entity-type-defining parameters for the external data object.
14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein: the one or more object integration parameters for the external data object comprise an individual absorption score for the external data object; and the individual absorption score of the external data object indicates an estimated relational awareness capacity of the external data object given one or more individual attributes of the external data object.
15. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein: the one or more object integration parameters for the external data object comprise a hierarchical absorption score for the external data object; and the hierarchical absorption score of the external data object is determined based at least in part on each individual absorption score for a parent data object that is a hierarchical parent of the external data object.
16. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein: the one or more object integration parameters for the external data object comprise an operational absorption score for the external data object; and the operational absorption score of the external data object is determined based at least in part on each individual absorption score for a related data object that is operationally related to the external data object.
17. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein: the one or more object integration parameters for the external data object comprise an environment-based absorption score for the external data object; and the environment-based absorption score of the external data object indicates an estimated relational significance of the external data object to an environment state of the data interaction platform.
18. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein generating the one or more unintegrated data object relationships comprises: mapping the one or more object integration parameters to a relationship extrapolation space of the plurality of integrated data objects, wherein the relationship extrapolation space is comprising one or more input dimensions associated with the one or more object integration parameters and one or more output dimensions associated with one or more candidate data object relationship types; and determining the one or more unintegrated data object relationships based at least in part on the relationship extrapolation space.
19. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein generating the one or more relational absorption parameters for an unintegrated data object relationship of the one or more unintegrated data object relationships comprises generating the one or more relational absorption parameters based at least in part on the one or more object integration parameters.
20. A computer program product for integrating an external data object into a data model with dynamic relational awareness for a data interaction platform comprising a plurality of integrated data object relationships between a plurality of integrated data objects, the computer program product comprising at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code portions stored therein, the computer-readable program code portions configured to: generate one or more object integration parameters for the external data object; generate, based at least in part on the one or more object integration parameters, one or more unintegrated data object relationships, wherein: (i) each unintegrated data object relationship of the one or more unintegrated data object relationships is associated with one or more related data objects, and (ii) the one or more related data objects associated with an unintegrated data object relationship of the one or more unintegrated data object relationships comprise the external data object and at least one of the plurality of integrated data objects; and for each unintegrated data object relationship of the one or more unintegrated data object relationships, generate one or more relational absorption parameters for the unintegrated data object relationship, and generate, based at least in part on the one or more relational absorption parameters, a respective relational awareness score for the unintegrated data object relationship with respect to each related data object of the one or more related data objects that is associated with the unintegrated data object relationship.
</claims>
</document>
