<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,G06F9/455,H04L12/24,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VMWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HRISTOVA, TANYA
PARVANOV, TEODOR
PETKOV, ALEKSANDAR
PETROV, ANTON
SHTARBEV, MIROSLAV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71610235
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR ENHANCING PRODUCTS WITH CLOUD ANALYTICS
</title>

<abstract>
A method is provided to enhance a virtualized infrastructure at a customer's premise with a cloud analytics service. The method includes receive a request for an expert use case on an expertise about an object in the virtualized infrastructure and performing an expertise cycle on the expert use case, which includes retrieving a manifest for the expert use case from a cloud analytics site remote from the customer's premise, collecting the telemetry data from the virtualized infrastructure based on the manifest, uploading the collected telemetry data to the cloud analytics site, and retrieving an expertise result for the expert use case from the cloud analytics site. The method further includes communicating the expertise result about the object to the customer and changing a configuration of the object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method to enhance a virtualized infrastructure at a customer's premise with a cloud analytics service, the method comprising: receiving a request for an expert use case on an expertise about an object in the virtualized infrastructure, the request specifying the expertise and the object; in response to the request for the expert use case, determining if the customer has agreed to share telemetry data from the virtualized infrastructure; when the customer has agreed to share the telemetry data from the virtualized infrastructure, performing an expertise cycle comprising: retrieving a manifest for the expert use case from a cloud analytics site remote from the customer's premise, including specifying the expertise to the cloud analytics site, the manifest defining telemetry data types to be collected; based on the manifest, collecting the telemetry data from the virtualized infrastructure; uploading the collected telemetry data to the cloud analytics site, including specifying the expertise to the cloud analytics site; and retrieving an expertise result for the expert use case from the cloud analytics site, the expertise result identifying the expertise, the object, and a timestamp; communicating the expertise result about the object to the customer; and after communicating the expertise result about the object to the customer, changing a configuration of the object.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to uploading the collected telemetry data to the cloud analytics site, anonymizing the telemetry data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the changing the configuration of the object comprises (1) automatically changing the configuration of the object based on the expertise result or (2) communicating a recommendation for a change to the configuration of the object based on the expertise result and changing the configuration of the object after receiving a user command from the customer accepting the recommendation.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to retrieving the manifest from the cloud analytics site, communicating a cached expertise result for the expert use case to the customer.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: refreshing one or more cached expertise results by performing the expertise cycle for the one or more cached expertise results; and communicating one or more refreshed expert results to the customer.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to retrieving the manifest, storing the request in a queue and retrieving the request from the queue for processing.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a telemetry level from the manifest, wherein collecting the telemetry data from the virtualized infrastructure comprises collecting an amount of the telemetry data based on the telemetry level.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein uploading the collected telemetry data to the cloud analytics site comprises: logging a first portion of the collected telemetry data to a first telemetry log file; when the first telemetry log file reaches a threshold size or a threshold time has passed: logging a second portion of the collected telemetry data to a second telemetry log file; and compressing the first telemetry log file and storing the compressed first telemetry log files in a queue.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein uploading the collected telemetry data to the cloud analytics site further comprises, following a random time interval: retrieving the compressed first telemetry log file from the queue; and providing a batch of compressed telemetry log files, including the compressed first telemetry log file, for uploading to the cloud analytics site.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein uploading the collected telemetry data to the cloud analytics site further comprises: determining a filtering rule from the manifest; and filtering the compressed first telemetry log file according to the filtering rule.
11. A non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium encoded with instructions executable by a processor to enhance a virtualized infrastructure (software-defined data center) at a customer's premise with a cloud analytics service, the instructions comprising: receiving a request for an expert use case on an expertise about an object in the virtualized infrastructure, the request specifying the expertise and the object; in response to the request for the expert use case, determining if the customer has agreed to share telemetry data from the virtualized infrastructure; when the customer has agreed to share the telemetry data from the virtualized infrastructure, performing an expertise cycle comprising: retrieving a manifest for the expert use case from a cloud analytics site remote from the customer's premise, including specifying the expertise to the cloud analytics site, the manifest defining telemetry data types to be collected; based on the manifest, collecting the telemetry data from the virtualized infrastructure; uploading the collected telemetry data to the cloud analytics site, including specifying the expertise to the cloud analytics site; and retrieving an expertise result for the expert use case from the cloud analytics site, the expertise result identifying the expertise, the object, and a timestamp; communicating the expertise result about the object to the customer; and after communicating the expertise result about the object to the customer, changing a configuration of the object.
12. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions further comprise, prior to uploading the collected telemetry data to the cloud analytics site, anonymizing the telemetry data.
13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the changing the configuration of the object comprises (1) automatically changing the configuration of the object based on the expertise result or (2) communicating a recommendation for a change to the configuration of the object based on the expertise result and changing the configuration of the object after receiving a user command from the customer accepting the recommendation.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions further comprise communicating a cached expertise result for the expert use case to the customer.
15. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions further comprise: refreshing one or more cached expertise results by performing the expertise cycle for the one or more cached expertise results; and communicating one or more refreshed expert results to the customer.
16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions further comprise, prior to retrieving the manifest, storing the request in a queue and retrieving the request from the queue for processing.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions further comprise determining a telemetry level from the manifest, wherein collecting the telemetry data from the virtualized infrastructure comprises collecting an amount of the telemetry data based on the telemetry level.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein uploading the collected telemetry data to the cloud analytics site comprises: logging a first portion of the collected telemetry data to a first telemetry log file; when the first telemetry log file reaches a threshold size or a threshold time has passed: logging a second portion of the collected telemetry data to a second telemetry log file; and compressing the first telemetry log file and storing the compressed first telemetry log files in a queue.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein uploading the collected telemetry data to the cloud analytics site further comprises, following a random time interval: retrieving the compressed first telemetry log file from the queue; and providing a batch of compressed telemetry log files, including the compressed first telemetry log file, for uploading to the cloud analytics site.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein uploading the collected telemetry data to the cloud analytics site further comprises: determining a filtering rule from the manifest; and filtering the compressed first telemetry log file according to the filtering rule.
21. A system, comprising: computers configured to implement a virtualized infrastructure at a customer's premise; at computer configured to implement: an expert application agent manager configured to: receive a request for an expert use case on an expertise about an object in the virtualized infrastructure, the request specifying the expertise and the object; in response to the request for the expert use case, determining if the customer has agreed to share telemetry data from the virtualized infrastructure; when the customer has agreed to share the telemetry data, run an instance of an expert application agent to perform an expertise cycle, including specifying the expertise and the object to the instance of the expert application agent; receive an expertise result for the expert use case from the agent application agent, the expertise result identifying the expertise, the object, and a timestamp; and communicate the expertise result about the object to the customer; the expert application agent configured to: run an instance of a telemetry collector to collect the telemetry data, including specifying the expertise to the telemetry collector; receive the collected telemetry data from the instance of the telemetry collector, the collected telemetry data specifying the expertise; upload the collected telemetry data to the cloud analytics site, including specifying the expertise; retrieve the expertise result for the expert use case from the cloud analytics site; and provide the expertise result for the expert use case to the expert applicant agent manager; the telemetry collector configured to: retrieve a manifest for the expert use case from the cloud analytics site, including specifying the expertise and the object to the cloud analytics site, the manifest specifying the telemetry data to be collected; based on the manifest, collect the telemetry data from the software product; and provide the collected telemetry data to the expert application agent.
22. The system of claim 21, further comprising a scheduler configured to periodically instruct the expert application manager to refresh one or more cached expertise results by performing the expertise cycle for the one or more cached expertise results.
23. 23-37. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
