<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/024,A61B5/026,A61B5/0476,A61B5/055,A61B5/145,A61B5/16,G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G06N3/08,G06T5/00,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NURALOGIX CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, KANG
ZHENG, PU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59625569
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for detecting physiological state
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for health diagnostics and more specifically to an image-capture based system and method for detecting physiological state for a subject. The system provides a remote and non-invasive approach by which to detect physiological state with a high confidence. The system enables monitoring of hemoglobin concentration changes by optical imaging and related detection systems.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for detecting physiological states from a captured image sequence of a subject, the system comprising: a camera configured to capture an image sequence of the subject, the image sequence comprising a query set of images; a processing unit trained to determine a set of bitplanes of a plurality of images in the captured image sequence that represent hemoglobin concentration (HC) changes of the subject and that maximize signal differentiation between different physiological states; a classification machine, trained using a training set comprising HC changes of subjects with known physiological states, and configured to: detect the subject's physiological states based on HC changes in the set of bitplanes; and output the detected physiological states.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the set of bitplanes that maximize differentiation between different physiological states comprises selecting, using a machine learning technique, an RGB pixel bit-combination that maximizes a heart beat signal-to-noise ratio.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of bitplanes that represent HC changes are determined for a selected plurality of regions of interest (ROI) of the subject that are relevant as an indicator of physiological state.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the processing unit is further configured to extract from the HC changes of one or more ROI a heart beat signal of the subject, process the heat beat signal to determine heart beat interval time series data of the subject, perform Fourier transforms on the heart beat interval time series data to obtain a stress level index, compare the stress level index with a predetermined normative stress index distribution profile to determine the subject's comparative stress level, and provide the subject's comparative stress level to the classification machine for use in detecting the subject's physiological states.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein detecting the subject's physiological states based on HC changes comprises calculating an estimated statistical probability that the subject's physiological state conforms to a known physiological state from the training set, and a normalized intensity measure of such determined physiological state.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein outputting the subject's physiological states comprises grouping each of the detected physiological states into one of a plurality of groupings based on the calculated statistical probability and normalized intensity measure.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the physiological states comprise stress levels, pain levels or fatigue levels.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the camera comprises an optical sensor directly attached to the skin of the subject, and the processing unit is further configured to remove artifacts from motion and heat from the captured image sequence.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is further configured to process the captured image sequence to detect skin lesions that would be difficult to spot visually.
10. The system of claim 1, further comprising one of a magnetic resonance imaging unit, a near-infrared spectroscopy imaging unit or an electroencephalography imaging unit for capturing a second image sequence, and the processing unit is further configured to determine the subject's transdermal blood flow changes from the second image sequence.
11. A method for detecting physiological states from a captured image sequence of a subject, the method comprising: capturing, by a camera, an image sequence of the subject, the image sequence comprising a query set of images; processing the captured image sequence, by a trained processing unit, to determine a set of bitplanes of a plurality of images in the captured image sequence that represent hemoglobin concentration (HC) changes of the subject and that maximize signal differentiation between different physiological states; processing the set of bitplanes, by a classification machine trained using a training set comprising HC changes of subjects with known physiological states, to: detect the subject's physiological states based on HC changes in the set of bitplanes; and output the detected physiological states.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein determining the set of bitplanes that maximize differentiation between different physiological states comprises selecting, using a machine learning technique, an RGB pixel bit-combination that maximizes a heart beat signal-to-noise ratio.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the set of bitplanes that represent HC changes are determined for a selected plurality of regions of interest (ROI) of the subject that are relevant as an indicator of physiological state.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising extracting, by the processing unit, from the HC changes of one or more ROI a heart beat signal of the subject, processing the heat beat signal to determine heart beat interval time series data of the subject, performing Fourier transforms on the heart beat interval time series data to obtain a stress level index, comparing the stress level index with a predetermined normative stress index distribution profile to further determine the subject's comparative stress level, and providing the subject's comparative stress level to the classification machine for use in detecting the subject's physiological states.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein detecting the subject's physiological states based on HC changes comprises calculating an estimated statistical probability that the subject's physiological state conforms to a known physiological state from the training set, and a normalized intensity measure of such determined physiological state.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein outputting the subject's physiological states comprises grouping each of the detected physiological states into one of a plurality of groupings based on the calculated statistical probability and normalized intensity measure.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein the physiological states comprise stress levels, pain levels or fatigue levels.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein the camera comprises an optical sensor directly attached to the skin of the subject, and the method further comprises removing artifacts from motion and heat from the captured image sequence.
19. The method of claim 10, further comprising processing the captured image sequence to detect skin lesions that would be difficult to spot visually.
20. The method of claim 10, further comprising capturing a second image sequence, by one of a magnetic resonance imaging unit, a near-infrared spectroscopy imaging unit or an electroencephalography imaging unit, and processing the second image sequence to determine the subject's transdermal blood flow changes from the second image sequence.
</claims>
</document>
