<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/25,G06F30/13,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL
</assignee>

<inventors>
SARKISIAN, MARK, P.
WALKER, SAMANTHA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69811965
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING TOOL FOR STRUCTURES
</title>

<abstract>
A machine learning tool for structures to (1) design structures, (2) verify construction and (3) assess damage due to deterioration, change of properties or a destructive event. The tool comprises various pre-trained machine learning models and post-processing algorithms. The tool includes a user interface that allows users to upload their data, analyze it through one or more pre-trained machine learning models and post-process the machine learning results in various ways. The tool displays the results and allows users to export them in various formats.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A machine learning tool, comprising: a computing system with one or more data processors and memory; a user interface via which information can be output to a user and via which information and data can be input by the user, the data identifying one or more structures, components thereof, or both; a database in which the data are stored; a database management system that communicates with the database to store and retrieve the data in and from the database; and non-transient data processor executable instructions stored in the memory, the instructions comprising one or more pre-trained machine learning models and one or more post-processing algorithms, wherein, the one or more machine learning models are pre-trained to process the data in the database to evaluate performance or design of a structure from images, point cloud data, or three dimensional representations or drawings thereof, identify components of a structure from an image or point cloud data, identify one or more components of a structure and extract related text from a drawing, identify and assess damage in a structure from an image or point cloud data, or any combination of the foregoing, and the one or more post-processing algorithms comprise, a quantity algorithm, a measurement algorithm, a comparison algorithm, a digital model generation algorithm, or any combination of the foregoing.
2. The machine learning tool of claim 1, wherein the one or more machine learning models are pre-trained to process the data in the database to evaluate a design of a structure, identify components of a structure, and assess damage in a structure.
3. The machine learning tool of claim 1, wherein the one or more post-processing algorithms comprise, a quantity algorithm, a measurement algorithm, a comparison algorithm, and a digital model generation algorithm.
4. The machine learning tool of claim 1, wherein: the one or more machine learning models are pre-trained to process the data in the database to evaluate a design of a structure, identify components of a structure, and assess damage in a structure, and the one or more post-processing algorithms comprise, a quantity algorithm, a measurement algorithm, a comparison algorithm, and a digital model generation algorithm.
5. The machine learning tool of claim 1, wherein the components of a structure include structural components and non-structural components.
6. The machine learning tool of claim 1, wherein, the quantity algorithm sums a number of instances of each class identified by the one or more the machine learning model to provide a total count of identified instances for each class.
7. The machine learning tool of claim 1, wherein the measurement algorithm comprises the steps of: using computer vision, detecting edges in regions identified by the one or more machine learning models, calculating pixel distance within those regions and converting the pixel distance to another unit of distance specified by the user based on a camera properties and its spatial relationship to a structure.
8. The machine learning tool of claim 1, wherein the comparison algorithm comprises the steps of: comparing information extracted from the one or more machine learning models to a benchmark input by the user, obtained automatically through machine learning analysis of physical drawings, or obtained automatically from a digital drawing or a digital model; reporting out any deviations between the original machine learning results and the benchmark.
9. The machine learning tool of claim 1, wherein the digital model generation algorithm comprises using results from the one or more machine learning models to generate two-dimensional digital drawings or a three-dimensional digital model of the identified elements by grouping the pixels or points for each class identified by the one or more machine learning models and converting them into two-dimensional lines or three-dimensional components with the lines being created by reducing the groups of pixels or points down to lines or polylines running through a center of that pixel or point group. Components are created by determining the outer limits of the machine learning identified pixel or point group, determining its dimensions, location and orientation, and generating the appropriate component based on the class, centroid (location), angle (orientation) and dimension information obtained above.
10. A machine learning tool, comprising: a computing system with one or more data processors and memory storing data processor executable instructions; a user interface via which information can be output to a user and via which information and data can be input by the user; a database in which the data is stored; a database management system that communicates with the database to store and retrieve the data in and from the database; and the data processor executable instructions stored in the memory, wherein, the data processor executable instructions effect the steps of: processing the data using pre-trained machine learning models and evaluate a design of a structure, identify components of a structure, assess damage in a structure, or any combination of the foregoing, and process results from the prior step by invoking a quantity algorithm, a measurement algorithm, a comparison algorithm, a digital model generation algorithm, or any combination of the foregoing.
11. A tool comprising: a computing system with one or more data processors and memory; a user interface via which information can be output to a user and via which information and data can be input by the user; a database in which the data is stored; a database management system that communicates with the database to store and retrieve the data in and from the database; and non-transient data processor executable instructions stored in the memory, wherein, when executed, the data processor executable instructions cause: the user interface to prompt a user to select a machine learning analysis and a data format, receive the data from the user and store the data in the database, prompt the user to select from among one or more machine learning models pre-trained to process the data in the database to evaluate performance or design of a structure from images, point cloud data, three-dimensional representations or drawings thereof, identify components of a structure from an image or point cloud data, identify components of a structure and extract related text from a drawing, identify and assess damage in a structure from an image or point cloud data, or any combination of the foregoing, invoke each selected machine learning model and process the data using the each invoked model generate results, prompt the user to select one or more post-processing algorithms comprising, a quantity algorithm, a measurement algorithm, a comparison algorithm, a digital model generation algorithm, or any combination of the foregoing, and invoke each post-processing algorithm and.
12. The machine learning tool of claim 1 wherein, specific damage is identified and incorporated into a broader resilience plan for various conditions considering at a minimum single structures, to a maximum of all the structures in cities, counties and the like.
13. A machine learning tool comprising: a computing system with one or more data processors and memory; a user interface via which information can be output to a user and via which information and data can be input by the user, the data identifying one or more structures, components thereof, or both; a database in which the data are stored; a database management system that communicates with the database to store and retrieve the data in and from the database; and non-transient data processor executable instructions stored in the memory, the instructions comprising one or more pre-trained machine learning models, wherein, the one or more machine learning models are pre-trained to process the data in the database to evaluate performance or design of a structure from images, point cloud data, or three-dimensional representations or drawings thereof, identify components of a structure from an image or point cloud data, identify one or more components of a structure and extract related text from a drawing, identify and assess damage in a structure from an image or point cloud data, or any combination of the foregoing.
</claims>
</document>
