<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/78,G06F9/30,G11C7/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICRON TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAMESH, VIJAY S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650089
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BIT STRING ACCUMULATION IN MEMORY ARRAY PERIPHERY
</title>

<abstract>
Bit string accumulation in a memory array periphery is described. Control circuitry (e.g., a processing device) may be utilized to control performance of operations using bit strings within a memory device. Results of the operations may be accumulated in circuitry peripheral to a memory array of the memory device. For instance, a plurality of sense amplifiers may be coupled to a memory array and a processing device. A quantity of sense amplifiers among the plurality of sense amplifiers can be the same as a quantity of rows or columns of the array. The processing device may be configured to cause performance of a recursive operation using one or more bit strings that are formatted according to a Type III universal number format or a posit format. The processing device may further be configured to cause resultant bit strings representing results of iterations of the recursive operation to be accumulated in the plurality of sense amplifiers.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a plurality of sense amplifiers located in a periphery area of a memory array comprising a same quantity of rows or columns as a quantity of sense amplifiers of the plurality of sense amplifiers; and control circuitry comprising a memory array processing device coupled to the plurality of sense amplifiers and the memory array and a memory resource, wherein the processing device is configured to: cause one or more bit strings to be written from the memory array to the memory resource; cause performance of a first iteration of a recursive operation using the one or more bit strings written to the memory resource, wherein the one or more bit strings are formatted according to a Type III universal number format or a posit format; cause a first resultant bit string representing a result of the first iteration of the recursive operation to be accumulated in the plurality of sense amplifiers; determine whether to perform a second iteration of the recursive operation using the one or more bit strings written to the memory resource or one or more bit strings stored in the memory array; cause performance of a second iteration of the recursive operation using the one or more bit strings written to the memory resource or the one or more bit strings stored in the memory array; and cause a second resulting bit string representing a result of the second iteration of the recursive operation to be accumulated in the plurality of sense amplifiers.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further configured to: determine that the recursive operation is complete; and cause performance of an operation to round the resultant bit string stored in the plurality of sense amplifiers subsequent to the determination such that the final resultant bit string has a particular bit width by removing at least one bit from a mantissa bit sub-set or an exponent bit sub-set of the resultant bit string, or both.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sense amplifiers and the memory array comprise a memory device, and wherein the processing device is configured to perform the recursive operation within the memory array without transferring the resultant bit strings to circuitry external to the memory device.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing device is configured to: access an address space of the memory array in which a first resultant bit string that represents a result of a first iteration of the recursive operation is stored; access an address space of the memory array in which a second resultant bit string that represents a result of a second iteration of the recursive operation is stored; and store a bit string representing a result of an operation performed using the first resultant bit string and the second resultant bit string in the plurality of sense amplifiers.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing device is configured to cause the resultant bit strings to be accumulated in the plurality of sense amplifiers in response to receipt of a user generated command.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further configured to cause resultant bit strings representing results of iterations of the recursive operation to be accumulated in the plurality of sense amplifiers by overwriting a previously stored resultant bit string in the plurality of sense amplifiers.
7. A method, comprising: retrieving, by control circuitry external to a memory array, a first bit string and a second bit string for use in performance of a recursive operation, wherein the first bit string and the second bit string are formatted in a universal number format; performing, by the control circuitry, a first operation using the first bit string and the second bit string; storing an exact result of the first operation in peripheral circuitry of the memory array; determining, by the control circuitry, whether to perform a second operation using the result of the first operation and the second bit string or the result of the first operation and a bit string stored in the memory array; performing the second operation using the result of the first operation and the second bit string or the result of the first operation and the bit string stored in the memory array; and storing an exact result of the second operation using the universal number format in the peripheral circuitry.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the first operation and the second operation are performed as part of a recursive operation, and wherein the method further comprises: determining that the result of the second operation is a final resultant bit string of the recursive operation; and performing an operation to round the final resultant bit string stored in the peripheral circuitry subsequent to the determination such that the final resultant bit string has a particular bit width.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising removing at least one bit from a mantissa bit sub-set or an exponent bit sub-set of the final resultant bit string to round the final resultant bit string stored in the peripheral circuitry.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving a user command to remove the at least one bit; and rounding, in response to the user command, the final resultant bit string to have a bit width defined by the user command.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising transferring the rounded final resultant bit string to the memory array.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the first operation and the second operation are performed as part of a recursive operation, and wherein the method further comprises: determining that the result of the second operation is a final resultant bit string of the recursive operation; and performing an operation to convert the final resultant bit string to a Type III universal number format or a posit format.
13. The method of claim 7, wherein the result of the first operation or the second operation has a greater bit width than the result of the other of the first operation and the second operation.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising: converting the result of the first operation from the universal number format to a different format prior to storing the result of the first operation in the peripheral circuitry; and converting the result of the second operation from universal number format to the different format prior to storing the result of the second operation in the peripheral circuitry.
15. A system, comprising: a memory device comprising a memory array and a plurality of sense amplifiers, the memory array comprising a same quantity of rows or columns as a quantity of sense amplifiers of the plurality of sense amplifiers; and a processing device coupled to the memory device and configured to: cause one or more bit strings formatted in a universal number format to be written from the memory array to a memory resource external to the memory array and coupled to the processing resource; cause performance of a first iteration of recursive operation using the one or more bit strings; cause a first resultant bit string representing a result of the first iteration of the recursive operation to be accumulated in the plurality of sense amplifiers; determine whether to perform a second iteration of the recursive operation using the one or more bit strings written to the memory resource or one or more bit strings stored in the memory array; cause performance of a second iteration of the recursive operation using the one or more bit strings written to the memory resource or the one or more bit strings stored in the memory array; and cause a second resulting bit string representing a result of the second iteration of the recursive operation to be accumulated in the plurality of sense amplifiers.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the plurality of sense amplifiers are located in a periphery area of the memory array.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more bit strings, the resultant bit string, or both, are formatted according to a Type III universal number format or a posit format.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the recursive operation is performed within the memory array without transferring the resultant bit strings to circuitry external to the memory device.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the recursive operation includes performance of an arithmetic operation, a logical operation, or both.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the processing device is further configured to: determine that the recursive operation is completed; and cause a last resultant bit string stored in the plurality of sense amplifiers to be truncated such that the last resultant bit string has a particular bit width.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the processing device is further configured to cause at least one bit from a mantissa bit sub-set or an exponent bit sub-set of the last resultant bit string to be deleted to truncate the last resultant bit string.
22. The system of claim 15, wherein the processing device is further configured to cause each successive resultant bit string to be accumulated in the plurality of sense amplifiers by overwriting a preceding resultant bit string stored in the plurality of sense amplifiers.
</claims>
</document>
