<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/335,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDI TAGHI ABAD, FARDIN
GOODSITT, JEREMY
WALTER S. AUSTIN
TRUONG, ANH
FARIVAR, REZA
WATSON, MARK
PHAM, VINCENT
TAYLOR, KENNETH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67543579
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CENSORING TEXT INLINE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for censoring text-based data are provided. In some embodiments a censoring system may include at least one processor and at least one non-transitory memory storing application programming interface instructions. The censoring system may be configured to perform operations comprising storing a target pattern type and a computer-based model for identifying a target data pattern corresponding to a target pattern type within text based data., The censoring system may also be configured to receive text-based data by a server, and to retrieve the stored target pattern type to be censored in the text-based data. The censoring system may be configured to identify within the received text-based data, a target data pattern corresponding to the retrieved target pattern type. The censoring system may be configured to censor target characters within the identified target data pattern, and transmit the censored text-based data to a receiving party.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for censoring text-based data comprising: at least one processor; at least one non-transitory memory storing application programming interface instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor cause the system to perform operations comprising: storing a target pattern type; storing a computer-based model for: identifying a target data pattern corresponding to a target pattern type within text-based data; identifying target characters within the target data pattern; and censoring the target characters within the target data pattern in the text-based data; receiving text-based data by a server; retrieving the target pattern type; identifying, within the received text-based data using the computer-based model, a target data pattern corresponding to the target pattern type; receiving, from a receiving party, a profile containing a permission level for the target pattern type; retrieving context-based alternative information corresponding to target characters within the target data pattern, the alternative information corresponding to the permission level; censoring the text-based data by replacing target characters, within the target data pattern in the text-based data, with the context-based alternative information; and transmitting the censored text-based data to a receiving party.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein storing the computer-based model comprises storing a computer-based model which identifies target data patterns containing only target characters.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein: storing and retrieving a target pattern type comprises storing and retrieving a plurality of target data types; and storing a computer-based model comprises storing computer-based models for individual ones of the target pattern types.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein retrieving the target pattern type comprises retrieving the target pattern type in response to the received text-based data.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving a profile containing permission levels from the receiving party; retrieving one or more target pattern types based on the permission levels; and censoring the text-based data by substituting target characters, in target data patterns corresponding to the retrieved one or more target pattern types, with substitute characters.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein the operations further comprise: receiving training data for the computer-based model, the training data comprising text-based data and target data patterns containing target characters; receiving validation data for the computer-based model, the validation data comprising text-based data and target data patterns containing target characters; training the computer-based model based on the training data; and validating the computer-based model based on the validation data.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the training data comprises target characters identified by a tag.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein receiving training data comprises receiving text-based data generated by a data generation model.
9. The system of claim 6, wherein receiving validation data comprises receiving text-based data generated by a data generation model.
10. A method for censoring text-based data, the method comprising: receiving a plurality of target pattern types; storing a plurality of computer-based models, wherein at least one of the models is configured to perform operations comprising: identifying a target data pattern corresponding to a target pattern type within text-based data; identifying target characters within the target data pattern; and censoring the target characters; receiving text-based data by a server; and identifying within the received text-based data, one or more target data patterns corresponding to the target pattern types using the models.
11. (canceled)
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising: modifying the target data patterns by replacing target characters within the target data patterns with substitute characters to produce censored text-based data.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving a profile containing permission levels from a receiving party; identifying target pattern types based on the permission levels; and censoring the text-based data by replacing target characters, in target data patterns corresponding to the target pattern types, with substitute character.
14. The method of claim 10 further comprising: generating training data for the at least one computer-based model; generating validation data for the at least one model; training the at least one model using the generated training data; validating the computer-based model using the generated validation data; and receiving an approval of the at least one model from an administrator.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the training data comprises: text-based data including context data, target characters being embedded in the context data; and counter character examples of the embedded target characters located in proximity to the target characters.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the target characters comprise synthetic data.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the text-based data comprises randomly generated context data.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising: parsing the text-based data using a language parser; and labeling data objects of the text-based data with labels identifying parts of speech.
19. The method of claim 10, wherein the model comprises a recurrent neural network.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, perform operations comprising: receiving text-based data; receiving a target pattern type; generating training data, the training data including text-based data containing target data patterns including target characters, the target data patterns corresponding to the received target pattern type; training a computer-based model using the training data, the model identifying: a first target data pattern corresponding to the target pattern type; target characters within the first target data pattern; a second target data pattern corresponding to the target pattern type; and identifying target characters within the second target data pattern; receiving a profile containing a permission level for the target pattern type; retrieving context-based alternative information corresponding to target characters within at least one of the first or the second target data pattern, the alternative information corresponding to the permission level; censoring the text-based data by replacing target characters, within the first and the second identified target data patterns, with the alternative information; and transmitting the censored text-based data.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the model comprises a plurality of neural networks, at least one of the neural networks being trained to: identify the first and the second target data pattern corresponding to the received target pattern type within the received text-based data; and identify target characters within the target data pattern.
</claims>
</document>
