<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q40/06,G06Q50/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BDC II, LLC DBA ENTELLIGENT
SAND INVESTMENT HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LABOVITZ, MARK
STONER, JR., THOMAS
KHOSLA, POOJA
SCHIMEL, DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65435355
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CLIMATE DATA PROCESSING AND IMPACT PREDICTION SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure generally relates to assessing climate change risk at a security level. A computing system receives a selection of a climate change scenario from a user operating a remote client device. The computing system generates one or more environmental metrics for one or more energy sources based on the scenario selected by the user. The computing system converts the one or more environmental metrics for the one or more energy sources into one or more profitability indicators. The computing system correlates at least one energy source of the one or more energy sources to each security of the one or more securities. The computing system generates a projected climate change risk for each security based on the one or more environmental metrics for the one or more energy sources. The computing system provides a data set representing the projected climate change risk to the remote client device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory having programming instructions stored thereon, which, when executed by the processor, causes the processor to perform an operation, comprising: receiving, via at least one network, a selection of a climate change scenario from a user operating a remote client device; generating one or more environmental metrics for one or more energy sources based on the climate change scenario selected by the user; converting the one or more environmental metrics for the one or more energy sources into one or more profitability indicators; retrieving, over the at least one network, one or more sets of financial information directed to one or more securities from one or more remote financial data sources; correlating at least one energy source of the one or more energy sources to each security of the one or more securities, by downward deploying the one or more profitability indicators of the one or more energy sources to the one or more sets of financial information of each security; generating a projected climate change risk for each security of the one or more securities based on the one or more environmental metrics for the one or more energy sources; and providing a data set representing the projected climate change risk to the remote client device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to generate the one or more environmental metrics for the one or more energy sources based on the scenario selected by the user, by: simulating a climate change impact of each energy source using one or more metrics associated with the selected climate change scenario.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more profitability indicators include at least one of an absolute annualized capital cost, an absolute variable cost, an absolute revenue, a gross margin, a unit gross margin, a net present value (NPV), an internal rate of return (IRR), and a return on investment (ROI).
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to correlate the at least one energy source of the one or more energy sources to each security of the one or more securities, by: mapping the at least one energy source with at least one financial subsector; and ranking a relevance of each energy source to the at least one financial subsector.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the processor is further configured to: identify the one or more securities associated with each financial subsector; correlate each energy source mapped to each financial subsector with the identified one or more securities associated with each financial subsector; and rank a relevance of each energy source with each of the identified one or more securities associated with each financial subsector.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to generate the projected climate change risk for each security based on the one or more environmental metrics for one or more energy sources, by: retrieving historical price returns for each security from the one or more financial data sources.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the processor is further configured to: identify the one or more environmental metrics associated with each respective energy source; and generate a future environmental impact for each security using a linear regression algorithm with the identified one or more environmental metrics and the retrieved historical prices returns of each security.
8. A computer-implemented method of assessing climate change risk at a security level, comprising: receiving, by a computing system comprising a processor and a memory, the memory comprising a climate data analytics module executable by the processor, via at least one network, a selection of a climate change scenario from a user operating a remote client device; generating, by the processor of computing system, one or more environmental metrics for one or more energy sources based on the climate change scenario selected by the user; converting, by the processor of the computing system, the one or more environmental metrics for the one or more energy sources into one or more profitability indicators; retrieving, by the processor of the computing system, over the at least one network, one or more sets of financial information directed to one or more securities from one or more remote financial data sources; correlating, by the processor of the computing system, at least one energy source of the one or more energy sources to each security of the one or more securities, by downward deploying the one or more profitability indicators of the one or more energy sources to the one or more sets of financial information of each security; generating, by the processor of the computing system, a projected climate change risk for each security of the one or more securities based on the one or more environmental metrics for the one or more energy sources; and providing, by the processor of the computing system, a data set representing the projected climate change risk to the remote client device.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the generating of the one or more environmental metrics for the one or more energy sources based on the scenario selected by the user further comprises: simulating a climate change impact of each energy source using one or more metrics associated with the selected climate change scenario.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the one or more profitability indicators include at least one of an absolute annualized capital cost, an absolute variable cost, an absolute revenue, a gross margin, a unit gross margin, a net present value (NPV), an internal rate of return (IRR), and a return on investment (ROI).
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the correlating of the at least one energy source of the one or more energy sources to each security of the one or more securities further comprises: mapping the at least one energy source with at least one financial subsector; and ranking a relevance of each energy source to the at least one financial subsector.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, the method further comprising: identifying the one or more securities associated with each financial subsector; correlating each energy source mapped to each financial subsector with the identified one or more securities associated with each financial subsector; and ranking a relevance of each energy source with each of the identified one or more securities associated with each financial subsector.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the generating of the projected climate change risk for each security based on the one or more environmental metrics for one or more energy sources further comprises: retrieving historical price returns for each security from the one or more financial data sources.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, the method further comprising: identifying the one or more environmental metrics associated with each respective energy source; and generating a future environmental impact for each security using a linear regression algorithm with the identified one or more environmental metrics and the retrieved historical prices returns of each security.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon, which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform an operation of assessing climate change risk at a security level, the operation comprising: receiving, via at least one network, a selection of a climate change scenario from a user operating a remote client device; generating one or more environmental metrics for one or more energy sources based on the climate change scenario selected by the user; converting the one or more environmental metrics for the one or more energy sources into one or more profitability indicators; retrieving, over the at least one network, one or more sets of financial information directed to one or more securities from one or more remote financial data sources; correlating at least one energy source of the one or more energy sources to each security of the one or more securities, by downward deploying the one or more profitability indicators of the one or more energy sources to the one or more sets of financial information of each security; generating a projected climate change risk for each security of the one or more securities based on the one or more environmental metrics for the one or more energy sources; and providing a data set representing the projected climate change risk to the remote client device.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the generating of the one or more environmental metrics for the one or more energy sources based on the scenario selected by the user further comprises: simulating a climate change impact of each energy source using one or more metrics associated with the selected climate change scenario.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more profitability indicators include at least one of an absolute annualized capital cost, an absolute variable cost, an absolute revenue, gross margin, a unit gross margin, a net present value (NPV), an internal rate of return (IRR), and a return on investment (ROI).
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the correlating of the at least one energy source of the one or more energy sources to each security of the one or more securities further comprises: mapping the at least one energy source with at least one financial subsector; and ranking a relevance of each energy source to the at least one financial subsector.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein the operation further comprises: identifying the one or more securities associated with each financial subsector; correlating each energy source mapped to each financial subsector with the identified one or more securities associated with each financial subsector; and ranking a relevance of each energy source with each of the identified one or more securities associated with each financial subsector.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the generating of the projected climate change risk for each security based on the one or more environmental metrics for one or more energy sources further comprises: retrieving historical price returns for each security from the one or more financial data sources; identifying the one or more environmental metrics associated with each respective energy source; and generating a future environmental impact for each security using a linear regression algorithm with the identified one or more environmental metrics and the retrieved historical prices returns of each security.
</claims>
</document>
