<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q20/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WALMART APOLLO
</assignee>

<inventors>
KARMAKAR, SOMEDIP
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017602
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ANOMALY IDENTIFICATION FOR FRAUD DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed anomaly identification tool for fraud detection provides a data-driven method to identify potential fraud cases and includes receiving sales and refund data from transaction nodes, determining a plurality of metric data sets, for example return amount, return frequency, and return rate; and determining statistical distributions for the metrics. Risk thresholds can be set for identifying anomalous transactions, based on the metric statistics, which can be used as triggers for reporting risk or detection of potentially fraudulent transactions. Data analytics is thus leveraged, and can be applied at different levels and contexts of enterprise activity, for example by regions, by product line, and down to more focused areas such as specific retail channels. Some examples are able to identify anomalous activity indicative of collusion in fraudulent transactions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for anomaly identification and fraud detection, the system comprising: a first transaction node; a second transaction node; a processor; and a computer-readable medium storing instructions that are operative when executed by the processor to: receive sales data from at least the first transaction node, the sales data indexed with one of a plurality of customer IDs; receive refund data from at least the second transaction node, the refund data indexed with one of the plurality of customer IDs; determine, based at least on the sales data and the refund data, a plurality of metric data sets indexed with one of the plurality of customer IDs, wherein the plurality of metric data sets includes at least a return amount data set, a return frequency data set, and a return rate data set; determine a plurality of statistical distributions for the plurality of metric data sets, wherein the return amount data set, the return frequency data set, and the return rate data set are each fit to a different statistical distribution; determine, for each of the plurality of statistical distributions, a risk threshold to produce a plurality of risk thresholds; determine, for each selected customer ID within the plurality of customer IDs and based at least on the plurality of risk thresholds, whether at least one metric value from the plurality of metric data sets, indexed with the selected customer ID, meets a corresponding risk threshold; and based at least on the metric value indexed with the selected customer ID meeting the corresponding risk threshold, report a risk transaction.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the first transaction node comprises at least one node selected from the list consisting of: a delivery vehicle, an online sales site, and an in-store terminal.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein the second transaction node comprises at least one node selected from the list consisting of: a delivery vehicle, an online sales site, and an in-store terminal.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein the return amount data set is fit to an exponential distribution.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein the return frequency data set is fit to a Poisson distribution.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein the return rate data set is fit to a beta distribution.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein determining the risk threshold comprises determining, based on a secondary risk factor, the risk threshold, wherein the secondary risk factor comprises at least one factor selected from the list consisting of: a location of a transaction, a sales representative associated with a transaction, and an item included in a transaction.
8. The system of claim 1 wherein the instructions are further operative to: train a machine learning (ML) model on transaction feedback data, wherein determining the risk threshold for each of the plurality of statistical distributions comprises determining, using the ML model, the risk threshold for each of the plurality of statistical distributions.
9. A method of anomaly identification for fraud detection, the method comprising: receiving sales data from at least a first transaction node, the sales data indexed with one of a plurality of customer IDs; receiving refund data from at least a second transaction node, the refund data indexed with one of the plurality of customer IDs; determining, based at least on the sales data and the refund data, a plurality of metric data sets indexed with one of the plurality of customer IDs, wherein the plurality of metric data sets includes at least a return amount data set, a return frequency data set, and a return rate data set; determining a plurality of statistical distributions for the plurality of metric data sets, wherein the return amount data set, the return frequency data set, and the return rate data set are each fit to a different statistical distribution; determining, for each of the plurality of statistical distributions, a risk threshold to produce a plurality of risk thresholds; determining, for each selected customer ID within the plurality of customer IDs and based at least on the plurality of risk thresholds, whether at least one metric value from the plurality of metric data sets, indexed with the selected customer ID, meets a corresponding risk threshold; and based at least on the metric value indexed with the selected customer ID meeting the corresponding risk threshold, reporting a risk transaction.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein the first transaction node comprises at least one node selected from the list consisting of: a delivery vehicle, an online sales site, and an in-store terminal.
11. The method of claim 9 wherein the second transaction node comprises at least one node selected from the list consisting of: a delivery vehicle, an online sales site, and an in-store terminal.
12. The method of claim 9 wherein the return amount data set is fit to an exponential distribution.
13. The method of claim 9 wherein the return frequency data set is fit to a Poisson distribution.
14. The method of claim 9 wherein the return rate data set is fit to a beta distribution.
15. The method of claim 9 wherein determining the risk threshold comprises determining, based on a secondary risk factor, the risk threshold, wherein the secondary risk factor comprises at least one factor selected from the list consisting of: a location of a transaction, a sales representative associated with a transaction, and an item included in a transaction.
16. The method of claim 9 further comprising: training a machine learning (ML) model on transaction feedback data, wherein determining the risk threshold for each of the plurality of statistical distributions comprises determining, using the ML model, the risk threshold for each of the plurality of statistical distributions.
17. One or more computer storage devices having computer-executable instructions stored thereon for anomaly identification and fraud detection, which, on execution by a computer, cause the computer to perform operations comprising: receiving sales data from at least a first transaction node, the sales data indexed with one of a plurality of customer IDs; receiving refund data from at least a second transaction node, the refund data indexed with one of the plurality of customer IDs; determining, based at least on the sales data and the refund data, a plurality of metric data sets indexed with one of the plurality of customer IDs, wherein the plurality of metric data sets includes at least a return amount data set, a return frequency data set, and a return rate data set; determining a plurality of statistical distributions for the plurality of metric data sets, wherein the return amount data set is fit to an exponential distribution, wherein the return frequency data set is fit to a Poisson distribution, and wherein the return rate data set is fit to a beta distribution; determining, for each of the plurality of statistical distributions, a risk threshold to produce a plurality of risk thresholds; determining, for each selected customer ID within the plurality of customer IDs and based at least on the plurality of risk thresholds, whether at least one metric value from the plurality of metric data sets, indexed with the selected customer ID, meets a corresponding risk threshold; and based at least on the metric value indexed with the selected customer ID meeting the corresponding risk threshold, reporting a risk transaction.
18. The one or more computer storage devices of claim 17 wherein the first transaction node comprises at least one node selected from the list consisting of: a delivery vehicle, an online sales site, and an in-store terminal; and wherein the second transaction node comprises at least one node selected from the list consisting of: a delivery vehicle, an online sales site, and an in-store terminal.
19. The one or more computer storage devices of claim 17 wherein determining the risk threshold comprises determining, based on a secondary risk factor, the risk threshold, wherein the secondary risk factor comprises at least one factor selected from the list consisting of: a location of a transaction, a sales representative associated with a transaction, and an item included in a transaction.
20. The one or more computer storage devices of claim 17 wherein the operations further comprise: training a machine learning (ML) model on transaction feedback data, wherein determining the risk threshold for each of the plurality of statistical distributions comprises determining, using the ML model, the risk threshold for each of the plurality of statistical distributions.
</claims>
</document>
