<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04M3/42,H04W76/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
HURDITCH, ADRIAN
NAVEH, DOR
SINGH, ARUNJEET
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70856089
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ROUTING OF COMMUNICATIONS TO A DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Using a method of operating a system that includes remote servers, multiple electronic devices, and a wireless portable, the portable wireless device receives notification of an incoming call. The system uses the remote servers and other parts of the system to determine that one of the electronic devices can wirelessly communicate with the portable wireless device, and establishes a wireless connection between the portable wireless device and that device. The system determines whether the user is also located with the portable wireless device and wirelessly connected device and if so, routes incoming call audio to that device. If the system determines that the user is located with a different device, incoming call audio is routed from the portable wireless device to the device near the portable wireless device, and then the call audio is bridged to the device near the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system, comprising: one or more processors; and memory including computer instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the computing system to: receive, from a first wireless device, at least first information identifying the first wireless device; receive from the first wireless device, at least second information related to an incoming communication to the first wireless device; cause a first device to output audio data representing details of the incoming communication; cause a second device to output audio data representing the details of the incoming communication; and receive, from the first device, information representing an instruction to create a communication session for the incoming communication.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computer instructions further cause the system to: cause the first wireless device to connect the incoming communication; and cause the communication session for the incoming communication to be wirelessly sent between the first wireless device and the first device.
3. The computing system of claim 2, wherein the computer instructions further cause the system to: cause the communication session for the incoming communication to be sent between the first wireless device and the first device using at least a BLUETOOTH connection.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computer instructions further cause the system to: receive, from the first wireless device, a first request to identify one of a plurality of devices.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computer instructions further cause the system to: cause the first device to activate a first visual indication of the incoming communication; and cause the second device to activate a second visual indication of the incoming communication.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computer instructions further cause the system to: determine, based on user interaction with the first device, an indication of user presence; and cause the communication session for the incoming communication to be created with the first device based at least on the indication of user presence.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computer instructions further cause the system to: determine, using information associated with the first wireless device, identification of a caller associated with the incoming communication; and include the identification of the caller with the details of the incoming communication.
8. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computer instructions further cause the system to: cause a first wireless transmission by the first device; cause a second wireless transmission by the second device; receive, from the first wireless device, information related to the second wireless transmission; cause a communication bridge between the first device and the second device; and cause the communication session for the incoming communication to be routed between the first wireless device and the first device, using at least the second device.
9. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, from a first wireless device, at least first information identifying the first wireless device; receiving from the first wireless device, at least second information related to an incoming communication to the first wireless device; causing a first device to output audio data representing details of the incoming communication; causing a second device to output audio data representing the details of the incoming communication; and receiving, from the first device, information representing an instruction to create a communication session for the incoming communication.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: causing the first wireless device to connect the incoming communication; and causing the communication session for the incoming communication to be wirelessly sent between the first wireless device and the first device.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: causing the communication session for the incoming communication to be sent between the first wireless device and the first device using at least a BLUETOOTH connection.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving, from the first wireless device, a first request to identify one of a plurality of devices.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: causing the first device to activate a first visual indication of the incoming communication; and causing the second device to activate a second visual indication of the incoming communication.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: determining, based on user interaction with the first device, an indication of user presence; and causing the communication session for the incoming communication to be created with the first device based at least on the indication of user presence.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: determining, using information associated with the first wireless device, identification of a caller associated with the incoming communication; and including the identification of the caller with the details of the incoming communication.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: causing a first wireless transmission by the first device; causing a second wireless transmission by the second device; receiving, from the first wireless device, information related to the second wireless transmission; causing a communication bridge between the first device and the second device; and causing the communication session for the incoming communication to be routed between the first wireless device and the first device, using at least the second device.
17. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving at least first data representing a first verbal instruction to establish a first communication session with a first entity; determining that the first entity corresponds to a first wireless device; causing a first device to establish a first wireless connection with the first wireless device; causing the first wireless device to establish the first communication session with the first entity; receiving second data representing a second verbal instruction to establish a second communication session with a second entity; determining that the second entity corresponds to a second wireless device; and causing the second wireless device to establish the second communication session with the second entity.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, further comprising: establishing the first wireless connection as a BLUETOOTH connection.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, further comprising: establishing the first wireless connection as a WiFi connection.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, further comprising: sending first commands to a second device, the first commands causing the second wireless device and the second device to establish a point-to-point wireless connection; and sending second commands causing a communication bridge between the first device and the second device.
</claims>
</document>
