<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F11/00,A63F9/02,A63G25/00,A63G31/02,A63G33/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Kennedy, John
</assignee>

<inventors>
Kennedy, John
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606765
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS FOR FACILITATING INTERACTIVE GAMING
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein is a system for facilitating interactive gaming. Accordingly, the system may include an arena comprising a gaming area. Further, the system may include vehicles configured to be mobile. Further, each vehicle may include at least one of a propulsion assembly, a launch assembly, a vehicle sensor, a vehicle actuator, and a controller. Further, each vehicle may include an input device communicatively coupled to the controller. Further, each vehicle may include a processing device communicatively coupled with the at least one vehicle sensor. Further, the processing device may be configured for analyzing the vehicle sensor data associated with each vehicle. Further, the processing device may be configured for generating a score associated with each vehicle based on the analyzing and for determining winner based on the score. Further, each vehicle may include a communication device configured for transmitting the winner and the score to display device.
</abstract>

<claims>
The following is claimed:
1. A system for facilitating interactive gaming, the system comprising: an arena comprises at least one gaming area bounded by at least one wall along a periphery of the at least one gaming area; one or more vehicles configured to be mobile, wherein each vehicle of the one or more vehicle comprising: a propulsion assembly disposed on the each vehicle, wherein the propulsion assembly is configured to propel the each vehicle in a plurality of directions in relation to the each vehicle; a launch assembly disposed on the each vehicle, wherein the launch assembly is configured for launching a plurality of pellets on the one or more vehicles; at least one vehicle sensor disposed on the each vehicle, wherein the at least one vehicle sensor is configured to generate at least one vehicle sensor data, wherein the at least one vehicle sensor data is associated a plurality hit events, wherein a hit event of the plurality of hit events is associated with a pellet hitting the each vehicle; at least one vehicle actuator disposed on the each vehicle, wherein the at least one vehicle actuator is operationally coupled to the launch assembly and the propulsion assembly, wherein the at least one vehicle actuator is configured to perform at least one vehicle actuator operation, wherein the at least one vehicle actuator operation comprises launching the plurality of pellets, wherein the at least one actuator operation comprises propelling the each vehicle in the plurality of directions; at least one controller associated with the each vehicle, wherein the at least one controller is communicatively coupled with the at least one vehicle actuator, wherein the at least one controller is configured to control the at least one vehicle actuator based on at least one input command; at least one input device communicatively coupled to the at least one controller, wherein the at least one input device is associated with at least one player, wherein the at least one input device is configured for generating the at least one input command based on at least one input action, wherein the at least one input action is associated with the at least one player; a processing device communicatively coupled with the at least one vehicle sensor, wherein the processing device is configured for: analyzing the at least one vehicle sensor data associated with the each vehicle; generating a score associated with the each vehicle based on the analyzing; determining at least one winner based on the score; and a communication device configured for transmitting the at least one winner and the score to at least one display device, wherein the at least one display device is configured to display the at least one winner and the score.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more vehicle comprises at least one stationary vehicle, wherein the at least one stationary vehicle is configured to be fixed in at least one position in the at least one gaming area, wherein the propulsion assembly disposed on the at least one stationary vehicle does not propel the at least one stationary vehicle in the plurality of directions.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one gaming area comprises at least one obstacle, wherein the at least one obstacle is configured to be arranged in at least one obstacle configuration, wherein the at least one obstacle configuration is associated with a plurality of pathways to navigate the one or more vehicles through the at least one gaming area.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein a vehicle of the one or more vehicles comprises a player compartment configured for accommodating the at least one player within the vehicle, wherein the at least one input device and the at least one display device is disposed on the player compartment.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one vehicle sensor comprises at least one proximity sensor, wherein the at least one vehicle sensor data comprises at least one proximity sensor data, wherein the proximity sensor data is associated with a position of the each vehicle in relation to the at least one wall and the one or more vehicles, wherein the processing device is communicatively coupled with the at least one controller, wherein the processing device is further configured for generating the at least one input command is based on the analyzing of the at least one proximity sensor data.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the each vehicle comprises an electric-powered vehicle, wherein the propulsion assembly, the launch assembly, and the at least one vehicle actuator of the electric-powered vehicle is electrically powered through at least one rechargeable battery.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the arena comprises a charging area, wherein the charging area comprises a plurality of charging stations, wherein the at least one rechargeable battery of the electric-powered vehicle is charged at a charging station of the plurality of charging stations.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the arena comprises at least one surveillance sensor, wherein the at least one surveillance sensor is configured to generate at least one surveillance sensor data associated with a plurality of positions of the one or more vehicles in the at least one gaming area, wherein the communication device is communicatively coupled with the at least one surveillance sensor, wherein the communication device is further configured transmitting the at least one surveillance sensor data to the at least one display device.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the propulsion assembly is configured for propelling the each vehicle in the plurality of directions for suspending the motion of the each vehicle.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the propulsion assembly is configured for propelling the each vehicle in the plurality of directions for rotating the each vehicle through a plurality of vehicle positions in relation to the at least one gaming area.
11. The system of claim 1 further comprises at least one administrator device communicatively coupled with the at least one controller, wherein the at least one administrator device is configured to generate the at least one input command based on at the least one input action, wherein the at least one input action is associated with at least one administrator, wherein the at least one controller is configured to control the at least one vehicle actuator based on the at least one input command.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one vehicle sensor comprises a visual sensor, wherein the visual sensor is configured to detect at least one object situated in at least one direction in relation to the each vehicle, wherein the at least one vehicle sensor data comprises at least one visual sensor data, wherein the at least one display device is communicatively coupled with the visual sensor, wherein the at least one display device is configured to display the at least one visual sensor data to the at least one player.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one vehicle sensor comprises a safety sensor, wherein the at least one vehicle sensor data comprises at least one safety sensor data, wherein the processing device is communicatively coupled with the at least one controller, wherein the processing device is configured for generating the at least one input command based on the analyzing of the at least one safety sensor data, wherein the at least one actuator operation comprises suspending motion of the each vehicle by propelling the each vehicle in the plurality of directions.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the each vehicle is associated with at least one vehicle state, wherein the at least one vehicle state is associated with a measure of functionality of the propulsion assembly and the launch assembly, wherein the measure of functionality is associated with a number of hit events of the plurality of hit events associated with the each vehicle, wherein the at least one vehicle sensor data comprises the hit events of the number of hit events, wherein the processing device is configured for generating the at least one input command based on the analyzing of the at least one sensor data, wherein the at least one controller is communicatively coupled with the processing device, wherein the controller is configured to control the at least one vehicle actuator based on the at least one input command, wherein the at least one actuator operation comprises controlled launching of the plurality of pellets, wherein the at least one actuator operation comprises controlled propulsion of the each vehicle.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the arena comprises a lobby, wherein the lobby comprises the at least one display device, wherein the at least one display device is configured to display the at least one winner and the score to at least one viewer associated with the lobby.
16. The system of claim 1 further comprises a storage device communicatively coupled with the processing device, wherein the storage device is configured for storing the score associated with the each vehicle in a database.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the propulsion assembly comprises at least one wheel and a plurality of track plates, wherein the plurality of track plates comprises a track, wherein the at least one wheel is operationally coupled with the track.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one input device of a first vehicle is communicatively coupled with the at least one input device of the each vehicle.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein the launch assembly comprises a ball hopper configured to store the plurality of pellets and a turret for launching the plurality of pellets.
20. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one input device is communicative coupled to the at least one controller over at least one of a wired communication channel and a wireless communication channel.
</claims>
</document>
