<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01K11/00,A01K27/00,G08B21/02,G08B21/18,G08B3/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SNIFFER GPS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MORGAN, AUSTIN MICHAEL
NAIDU, AARON PRAKASH
BUSH, AUSTIN JAMES
KERSEY, REID CHARLES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70052500
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GPS-ENABLED COLLAR WITH IMPROVED CHARGING
</title>

<abstract>
A system for tracking a location of a movable object can include a tracking device mounted to a collar. The tracking device can be configured to track its location using at least one of a global positioning system signal, a Bluetooth signal, and a Wi-Fi signal. The system can include a middle man charging mechanism. The middle man charging mechanism can be configured to receive electrical energy from a base station charging device. The middle man charging mechanism can be configured to store the received electrical energy. The middle man charging mechanism can be configured to couple to an external charging interface of the tracking device to recharge the battery included in the tracking device while the collar is worn by the movable object. The tracking device can also be configured to transmit information corresponding to the location of the tracking device to an external computing device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for tracking a location of a movable object, the system comprising: a collar; a tracking device mounted to the collar, the tracking device configured to track its location using at least one of a global positioning system signal, a Bluetooth signal, a cellular communications signal, and a Wi-Fi signal; a flexible solar panel mounted to the collar and electrically coupled with the tracking device, the solar panel configured to charge a battery electrically coupled to the tracking device; a middle man charging mechanism configured to: receive electrical energy from a base station charging device; store the received electrical energy; and couple to an external charging interface of the tracking device to charge the battery included in the tracking device while the collar is worn by the movable object, wherein the tracking device is configured to transmit information corresponding to the location of the tracking device to an external computing device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the tracking device further comprises: a global positioning system module; a Bluetooth module; a cellular communications module; and a Wi-Fi module.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the tracking device is further configured to: remove power from at least one of the global positioning system module, the Bluetooth module, the cellular communications module, and the Wi-Fi module responsive to an inactivity signal; and supply power to at least one of the global positioning system module, the Bluetooth module, the cellular communications module, and the Wi-Fi module responsive to an activity signal.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the tracking device further comprises an accelerometer module configured to provide acceleration data, the inactivity signal, and the activity signal, wherein accelerometer module is configured to provide the inactivity signal responsive to the acceleration data being below a predetermined threshold for a period of time, and provide the activity signal responsive to the acceleration data being above the predetermined threshold.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the tracking device further comprises a timer module configured to periodically provide the activity signal after a predetermined amount of time.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the battery electrically coupled to the tracking device resides inside the tracking device.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the tracking device is further configured to: determine a remaining charge of the battery electrically coupled to the tracking device; and transmit a notification to the external computing device responsive to the remaining charge being below a predefined charge threshold.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the tracking device is further configured to store a globally unique identifier.
9. The system of claim 2, wherein the tracking device is further configured to: determine that the tracking device is not within range of a Wi-Fi network; receive global positioning system location data from the global positioning system module; transmit, to the external computing device via a cellular data network, the global positioning system location data using the cellular data module.
10. The system of claim 2, wherein the tracking device is further configured to: detect a Wi-Fi network is within a predetermined distance of the tracking device via a Wi-Fi signal received by the Wi-Fi module; create a Wi-Fi communication channel between the Wi-Fi network and the Wi-Fi module responsive to detecting the Wi-Fi network is within a predetermined distance of the tracking device; and transmit, to the external computing device via the Wi-Fi communication channel, at least one of the Wi-Fi network name and the Wi-Fi network location using the Wi-Fi module.
11. The system of claim 2, wherein the tracking device is further configured to: detect an external Bluetooth module coupled to a mobile computing device within a predetermined distance of the tracking device via a Bluetooth signal received by the Bluetooth module; create a Bluetooth communication channel between the external Bluetooth module and the Bluetooth module responsive to detecting the external Bluetooth module is within a predetermined distance of the tracking device; receive configuration data from the mobile computing device via the Bluetooth communication channel; and transmit, to the mobile computing device via the Bluetooth communication channel, the location of the tracking device.
12. The system of claim 2, wherein the tracking device is further configured to: detect a cellular tower within a predetermined distance of the tracking device via a cellular communications signal received by the cellular communications module; receive, from the cellular tower, triangulation information of the tracking device via the cellular communications module; and track the location of the tracking device based on the received triangulation information.
13. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a kinetic energy charging mechanism mounted to the collar and electrically coupled with the tracking device, the kinetic energy charging mechanism configured to produce an electrical charge in response to movement of the kinetic energy charging mechanism to charge the battery electrically coupled to the tracking device.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises: a flexible light tube comprising: a multi-color light-emitting diode (LED) electrically coupled to the tracking device; and a flexible light guide mounted to the collar and coupled to the multi-color LED such that the light guide directs light emitted from the LED outward from the circumference of the collar.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the tracking device is further configured to: illuminate the multi-color LED responsive at least one of a Bluetooth signal, a Wi-Fi signal, a cellular communications signal, and a global positioning system signal.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the tracking device is further configured to: receive a boundary of a location defined by global positioning system coordinates from an external computing device via at least one of a Bluetooth signal, a Wi-Fi signal, and a cellular communications signal; store the boundary of the location in a data structure in computer memory.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the tracking device is further configured to: determine the location of the tracking device is not within a predetermined region defined by global positioning system coordinates; and illuminate the LED responsive to the determination that the tracking device is not within the predetermined region.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises: a speaker electrically coupled to the tracking device, wherein the tracking device is further configured to provide an audio signal to the speaker.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the tracking device is further configured to: provide an audio signal to the speaker responsive to the location of the tracking device not being within a predetermined region defined by global positioning system coordinates.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the tracking device is further configured to: provide an audio signal to the speaker responsive to the power of the Bluetooth signal falling below a predetermined threshold.
</claims>
</document>
