<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/00,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06F16/22,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UISEE TECHNOLOGY (BEIJING) COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
JIANG YAN
LUO, SAI
PENG, JINZHAN
ZHANG DAN
ZHOU XIAOCHENG
ZHOU XIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59830175
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SPEED PLANNING METHOD AND APPARATUS AND CALCULATING APPARATUS FOR AUTOMATIC DRIVING OF VEHICLE
</title>

<abstract>
A speed planning method and apparatus and a calculating apparatus for automatic driving of a vehicle. The method comprises: using a training sample set to perform machine learning to obtain a machine learning model; partitioning an input space, and obtaining a decision result corresponding to a determined partition based on the obtained machine learning model to form a partition decision table of each partition corresponding to the corresponding decision result; and obtaining each dimensional feature vector of a vehicle while driving in real time as an input feature, determining an input partition to which the input feature belongs, and querying the partition decision table based on the determined partition to obtain the corresponding decision result.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A method, comprising: performing machine learning using a set of training samples to obtain a machine learning model, wherein the training samples comprise a plurality of multi-dimensional feature vectors forming an input space and a plurality of training decision results forming an output space, wherein each of the multi-dimensional feature vectors comprises a variable describing a vehicle state at a particular moment, and wherein each of the training decision results indicates at least one of an expected speed at a next moment or a control parameter value related to speed control; constructing, by a processor, a partition decision table based on the machine learning model and a plurality of partitions of the input space, wherein the partition decision table maps each of the plurality of partitions to one of a plurality of partition decision results; querying the partition decision table based on an input feature of a driving vehicle to obtain a corresponding decision result; and issuing a control command to the driving vehicle based on the corresponding decision result to control a speed of the driving vehicle.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the input feature represents at least one of a current speed, a distance from a front vehicle, a relative speed with respect to the front vehicle, or a maximum speed of the driving vehicle.
23. The method of claim 21, wherein constructing, by the processor, the partition decision table based on the plurality of partitions of the input space and the machine learning model comprises: dividing the input space into the plurality of partitions; obtaining the plurality of partition decision results using the machine learning model; and storing each of the plurality of partition decision results in association with one of the plurality of partitions.
24. The method of claim 23, further comprising storing the machine learning model in association with the partition decision table.
25. The method of claim 23, further comprising: in response to determining that a first partition decision result of the plurality of partition decision results does not conform to an expectation, adjusting the first partition decision result in the partition decision table.
26. The method of claim 25, further comprising: in response to determining that a predetermined number of the plurality of partitions are to be adjusted, reconstructing the partition decision table.
27. The method of claim 23, further comprising: performing discrete coding on the training samples to generate a first discrete coding result; and dividing the input space into the plurality of partitions based on the first discrete coding result.
28. The method of claim 27, further comprising: performing discrete coding on the input feature to generate a second discrete coding result, wherein querying the partition decision table based on the input feature to obtain the corresponding decision result comprises querying the partition decision table using the second discrete coding result.
29. The method of claim 28, further comprising: in response to determining that a decision result corresponding to the second discrete coding result is stored in the partition decision table, retrieving the decision result corresponding to the second discrete coding result from the partition decision table.
30. The method of claim 28, further comprising: in response to determining that a decision result corresponding to the second discrete coding result is not stored in the partition decision table, obtaining a decision result using a stored decision model; and adding the obtained decision result to the partition decision table.
31. The method of claim 27, wherein partitioning the input space into the plurality of partitions based on the first discrete coding result comprises: assigning a first training sample and a second training sample to one of the plurality of partitions in response to determining that the first training sample and the second training sample are encoded into the same coded data.
32. The method of claim 21, wherein querying the partition decision table based on the input feature to obtain the corresponding decision result comprises: determining an input partition for the input feature; and querying the partition decision table using the input partition.
33. An apparatus for speed planning, comprising: a storage component, and a processor coupled to the storage component to: perform machine learning using a set of training samples to obtain a machine learning model, wherein the training samples comprise a plurality of multi-dimensional feature vectors forming an input space and a plurality of training decision results forming an output space, wherein each of the multi-dimensional feature vectors comprises a variable describing a vehicle state at a particular moment, and wherein each of the training decision results indicates at least one of an expected speed at a next moment or a control parameter value related to speed control; construct a partition decision table based on the machine learning model and a plurality of partitions of the input space, wherein the partition decision table maps each of the plurality of partitions to one of a plurality of partition decision results; query the partition decision table based on an input feature of a driving vehicle to obtain a corresponding decision result; and issue a control command to the driving vehicle based on the corresponding decision result to control a speed of the driving vehicle.
34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the input feature represents at least one of a current speed, a distance from a front vehicle, a relative speed with respect to the front vehicle, or a maximum speed of the driving vehicle.
35. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein to construct the partition decision table based on the plurality of partitions of the input space and the machine learning model, the processor is further to: divide the input space into the plurality of partitions; obtain the plurality of partition decision results using the machine learning model; and store each of the plurality of partition decision results in association with one of the plurality of partitions.
36. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein the processor is further to: perform discrete coding on the training samples to generate a first discrete coding result; and divide the input space into the plurality of partitions based on the first discrete coding result.
37. The apparatus of claim 36, wherein the processor is further to: perform discrete coding on the input feature to generate a second discrete coding result; determine an input partition for the input feature based on the second discrete coding result; and query the partition decision table using the input partition.
38. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the processor is further to: in response to determining that a decision result corresponding to the second discrete coding result is stored in the partition decision table, retrieve the decision result corresponding to the second discrete coding result from the partition decision table.
39. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the processor is further to: in response to determining that a decision result corresponding to the second discrete coding result is not stored in the partition decision table, obtain a decision result using a stored decision model; and add the obtained decision result to the partition decision table.
40. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium including instructions that, when accessed by a processor, cause the processor to: perform machine learning using a set of training samples to obtain a machine learning model, wherein the training samples comprise a plurality of multi-dimensional feature vectors forming an input space and a plurality of training decision results forming an output space, wherein each of the multi-dimensional feature vectors comprises a variable describing a vehicle state at a particular moment, and wherein each of the training decision results indicates at least one of an expected speed at a next moment or a control parameter value related to speed control; construct a partition decision table based on the machine learning model and a plurality of partitions of the input space, wherein the partition decision table maps each of the plurality of partitions to one of a plurality of partition decision results; query the partition decision table based on an input feature of a driving vehicle to obtain a corresponding decision result; and issue a control command to the driving vehicle based on the corresponding decision result to control a speed of the driving vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
