<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/02,G07C5/00,G07C5/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FUKUDA, MARI ABE
Hasegawa, Yuhko Kanoh
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73850648
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EXTENDED RULE GENERATION
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is a method, computer program product, and system for generating extended rules from common rules for vehicles. A processor may receive real-time data from one or more internet of things (IoT) devices that are communicatively coupled to a vehicle. The processor may analyze the real-time data by applying one or more event detection rules. The processor may determine that the one or more event detection rules have not been met. The processor may extract contextual data from the real-time data. The processor may correlate the contextual data with the one or more event detection rules. The processor may generate, in response to the correlating, one or more extended rules incorporating the contextual data. The processor may apply the one or more generated extended rules to the real-time data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving real-time data from one or more internet of things (IoT) devices that are communicatively coupled to a vehicle; analyzing the real-time data by applying one or more event detection rules; determining the one or more event detection rules have not been met; extracting contextual data from the real-time data; correlating the contextual data with the one or more event detection rules; generating, in response to the correlating, one or more extended rules incorporating the contextual data; and applying the one or more extended rules to the real-time data.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the one or more extended rules have been met; and performing an action in response to determining that the one or more extended rules have been met.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the action is selected from the group consisting of: deactivating one or more systems of the vehicle; activating one or more systems of the vehicle; displaying a notification on a vehicle device; and sending a notification to the one or more IoT devices.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein determining the one or more extended rules have been met comprises: comparing the real-time data to an extended rule data threshold.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the contextual data is selected from the group consisting of vehicle sensor data, imaging data, user data, driving behavioral data, temporal data, vehicle data received from one or more other vehicles, road condition data, and weather data.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the contextual data includes road condition data and weather data, wherein the road condition data and the weather data are received from an internet service.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the contextual data includes biometric data received from one or more user devices communicatively coupled to a vehicle device.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the contextual data includes imaging data generated by a communicatively coupled camera disposed on the vehicle.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more event detection rules have not been met further comprises: analyzing a rule execution log relative to the vehicle.
10. A system comprising: a processor; and a computer-readable storage medium communicatively coupled to the processor and storing program instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform a method comprising: receiving real-time data from one or more internet of things (IoT) devices that are communicatively coupled to a vehicle; analyzing the real-time data by applying one or more event detection rules; determining the one or more event detection rules have not been met; extracting contextual data from the real-time data; correlating the contextual data with the one or more event detection rules; generating, in response to the correlating, one or more extended rules incorporating the contextual data; and applying the one or more extended rules to the real-time data.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the method performed by the processor further comprises: determining the one or more extended rules have been met; and performing an action in response to determining that the one or more extended rules have been met.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the action is selected from the group consisting of: deactivating one or more systems of the vehicle; activating one or more systems of the vehicle; displaying a notification on a vehicle device; and sending a notification to the one or more IoT devices.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein determining the one or more extended rules has been met comprises: comparing the real-time data to an extended rule data threshold.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the contextual data is selected from the group consisting of vehicle sensor data, imaging data, user data, driving behavioral data, temporal data, vehicle data received from one or more other vehicles, road condition data, and weather data.
15. A computer program product comprising a computer-readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, wherein the computer-readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: receiving real-time data from one or more internet of things (IoT) devices that are communicatively coupled to a vehicle; extracting contextual data from the real-time data; correlating the contextual data with one or more event detection rules; generating, in response to the correlating, one or more extended rules incorporating the contextual data; and applying the one or more extended rules to the real-time data.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the method performed by the processor further comprises: analyzing the real-time data by applying one or more event detection rules; and determining the one or more event detection rules have not been met.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the method performed by the processor further comprises: determining the one or more extended rules have been met; and performing an action in response to determining that the one or more extended rules have been met.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the action is selected from the group consisting of: deactivating one or more systems of the vehicle; activating one or more systems of the vehicle; displaying a notification on a vehicle device; and sending a notification to the one or more IoT devices.
19. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein determining the one or more extended rules has been met comprises: comparing the real-time data to an extended rule data threshold.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the contextual data is selected from the group consisting of vehicle sensor data, imaging data, user data, driving behavioral data, temporal data, vehicle data received from one or more other vehicles, road condition data, and weather data.
</claims>
</document>
