<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/16,G06F16/21,G06F16/901,G06K9/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PERVIN, SHAILA
BELLER, CHARLES E.
RODRIGUEZ BRAVO, CESAR AUGUSTO
TRIM, CRAIG M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69139412
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Detection of missing entities in a graph schema
</title>

<abstract>
Detecting missing entities in a graph schema is provided. Unlabeled and unstructured data of a particular domain are divided into a plurality of Voronoi cells using a clustering algorithm that is initiated with cluster centroids proportional to a number of entity types corresponding to the particular domain existing in the graph schema. One additional cluster more than the number of entity types corresponding to the particular domain existing in the graph schema is initialized using a cluster initializing formula of the clustering algorithm. It is determined whether the one additional cluster is populated. In response to determining that the one additional cluster is populated, an entity type is determined to be missing from the number of entity types existing in the graph schema. The missing entity type is added to the graph schema.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for detecting missing entities in a graph schema, the computer-implemented method comprising: dividing unlabeled and unstructured data of a particular domain into a plurality of Voronoi cells using a clustering algorithm that is initiated with cluster centroids proportional to a number of entity types corresponding to the particular domain existing in the graph schema; initializing one additional cluster more than the number of entity types corresponding to the particular domain existing in the graph schema using a cluster initializing formula of the clustering algorithm; determining whether the one additional cluster is populated; responsive to determining that the one additional cluster is populated, determining that an entity type is missing from the number of entity types existing in the graph schema; and adding the missing entity type to the graph schema.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: responsive to determining that the one additional cluster is not populated, determining that all entity types of the particular domain exist in the graph schema.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: incrementing the number of entity types existing in the graph schema by one accounting for the added missing entity type; and re-executing the clustering algorithm initiating a number of cluster centroids proportional to the incremented number of entity types.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3 further comprising: populating a number of clusters corresponding to the incremented number of entity types; determining whether a cluster in the number of clusters is not populated; responsive to determining that the number of clusters is populated, determining that another entity type is missing from the graph schema; and responsive to determining that a cluster in the number of clusters is not populated, determining that all entity types of the particular domain exist in the graph schema.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: sending a notification regarding the missing entity type; and outputting the graph schema having all entity types corresponding to the particular domain modeled in the graph schema.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the graph schema having all of the entity types corresponding to the particular domain modeled in the graph schema is outputted to a graph database server hosting a graph database that complies with the graph schema to increase query performance and efficiency of the graph database server.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: ingesting the unlabeled and unstructured data corresponding to the particular domain from a plurality of data sources via a network; and analyzing the unlabeled and unstructured data corresponding to the particular domain using machine learning.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the clustering algorithm is a k-means clustering algorithm.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the clustering initializing formula defines that a number of clustering centroids is proportional to a number of root entities plus one.
10. A computer system for detecting missing entities in a graph schema, the computer system comprising: a bus system; a storage device connected to the bus system, wherein the storage device stores program instructions; and a processor connected to the bus system, wherein the processor executes the program instructions to: divide unlabeled and unstructured data of a particular domain into a plurality of Voronoi cells using a clustering algorithm that is initiated with cluster centroids proportional to a number of entity types corresponding to the particular domain existing in the graph schema; initialize one additional cluster more than the number of entity types corresponding to the particular domain existing in the graph schema using a cluster initializing formula of the clustering algorithm; determine whether the one additional cluster is populated; determine that an entity type is missing from the number of entity types existing in the graph schema in response to determining that the one additional cluster is populated; and add the missing entity type to the graph schema.
11. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the processor further executes the program instructions to: determine that all entity types of the particular domain exist in the graph schema in response to determining that the one additional cluster is not populated.
12. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the processor further executes the program instructions to: increment the number of entity types existing in the graph schema by one accounting for the added missing entity type; and re-execute the clustering algorithm initiating a number of cluster centroids proportional to the incremented number of entity types.
13. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the processor further executes the program instructions to: populate a number of clusters corresponding to the incremented number of entity types; determine whether a cluster in the number of clusters is not populated; determine that another entity type is missing from the graph schema in response to determining that the number of clusters is populated; and determine that all entity types of the particular domain exist in the graph schema in response to determining that a cluster in the number of clusters is not populated.
14. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the processor further executes the program instructions to: send a notification regarding the missing entity type; and output the graph schema having all entity types corresponding to the particular domain modeled in the graph schema.
15. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the graph schema having all of the entity types corresponding to the particular domain modeled in the graph schema is outputted to a graph database server hosting a graph database that complies with the graph schema to increase query performance and efficiency of the graph database server.
16. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the processor further executes the program instructions to: ingest the unlabeled and unstructured data corresponding to the particular domain from a plurality of data sources via a network; and analyze the unlabeled and unstructured data corresponding to the particular domain using machine learning.
17. A computer program product for detecting missing entities in a graph schema, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform a method comprising: dividing unlabeled and unstructured data of a particular domain into a plurality of Voronoi cells using a clustering algorithm that is initiated with cluster centroids proportional to a number of entity types corresponding to the particular domain existing in the graph schema; initializing one additional cluster more than the number of entity types corresponding to the particular domain existing in the graph schema using a cluster initializing formula of the clustering algorithm; determining whether the one additional cluster is populated; responsive to determining that the one additional cluster is populated, determining that an entity type is missing from the number of entity types existing in the graph schema; and sending a notification regarding the missing entity type.
18. The computer program product of claim 17 further comprising: responsive to determining that the one additional cluster is not populated, determining that all entity types of the particular domain exist in the graph schema.
19. The computer program product of claim 17 further comprising: incrementing the number of entity types existing in the graph schema by one accounting for the added missing entity type; and re-executing the clustering algorithm initiating a number of cluster centroids proportional to the incremented number of entity types.
20. The computer program product of claim 19 further comprising: populating a number of clusters corresponding to the incremented number of entity types; determining whether a cluster in the number of clusters is not populated; responsive to determining that the number of clusters is populated, determining that another entity type is missing from the graph schema; and responsive to determining that a cluster in the number of clusters is not populated, determining that all entity types of the particular domain exist in the graph schema.
21. The computer program product of claim 17 further comprising: adding the missing entity type to the graph schema; and outputting the graph schema having all entity types corresponding to the particular domain modeled in the graph schema.
22. The computer program product of claim 21, wherein the graph schema having all of the entity types corresponding to the particular domain modeled in the graph schema is outputted to a graph database server hosting a graph database that complies with the graph schema to increase query performance and efficiency of the graph database server.
23. The computer program product of claim 17 further comprising: ingesting the unlabeled and unstructured data corresponding to the particular domain from a plurality of data sources via a network; and analyzing the unlabeled and unstructured data corresponding to the particular domain using machine learning.
24. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the clustering algorithm is a k-means clustering algorithm.
25. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the clustering initializing formula defines that a number of clustering centroids is proportional to a number of root entities plus one.
</claims>
</document>
