<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B3/10,A61B3/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZHANG AIZHONG
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG AIZHONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73245364
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTISPECTRAL AND HYPERSPECTRAL MEIBOGRAPHY
</title>

<abstract>
A method performed by a multispectral or hyperspectral meibomian gland imaging device is disclosed, which comprises directing light having visible and infrared spectra from a broadband illuminator toward an everted eyelid; forming images of the everted eyelid using an imaging system; recording the images using a detection system, which separates the images into spectral channels, which include at least one visible spectral channel and at least one infrared spectral channel; displaying the recorded images to adjust the position of the subject to optimize image quality; digitally processing the recorded images to obtain spatial and spectral information; evaluating the health of at least one meibomian gland of the eyelid by analyzing the information. Also disclosed is a multispectral or hyperspectral meibomian gland imaging device, comprising a broadband illuminator directing light that covers visible and infrared spectra; an imaging system, and a detection system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by a multispectral or hyperspectral meibomian gland imaging device, the method comprising: directing light from a broadband illuminator toward at least a portion of an everted eyelid of a subject, wherein said light covers visible and infrared spectra; forming images of said everted eyelid using an imaging system; recording said images using a detection system, wherein said detection system separates said images into a plurality of spectral channels with optical filters or a dispersive optical element, wherein said a plurality of spectral channels comprise at least one visible spectral channel and at least one infrared spectral channel; displaying said recorded images to adjust a relative position of said subject to optimize image quality; digitally processing said recorded images to obtain spatial and spectral information; evaluating health of at least one meibomian gland of said everted eyelid by analyzing said spatial and spectral information.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: controlling said broadband illuminator, said imaging system, and said detection system with a control system.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein said illuminator comprises a polarizer with at least one polarization state.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein an analyzer is placed in either said imaging system or said detection system, wherein said analyzer comprises at least one polarization state.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein said illuminator comprises a polarizer with at least one polarization state, wherein at least one pair of polarization states of said polarizer and said analyzer are chosen to minimize superficial surface reflection of said everted eyelid.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said illuminator directs light toward said everted eyelid with direct illumination without contacting said everted eyelid, wherein reflected and back scattered light from said everted eyelid is collected into said imaging system.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein said illuminator is placed behind a cutaneous side of said everted eyelid with transillumination, wherein transmitted and forward scattered light through said everted eyelid is collected into said imaging system.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein said illuminator comprises a tunable narrow band filter or a dispersive optical element to adjust the illumination spectrum.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein said detection system is a spectrometer system.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein said spectrometer system comprises a member selected from a group consisting of a transmissive spectrometer, a Czerny-Turner spectrometer, a Littrow spectrometer, an Ebert-Fastie spectrometer, an Eagle spectrometer, a Wadsworth spectrometer, a Dyson spectrometer, and a Fourier transform spectrometer.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein said optical filters are narrow band spectral filters or dichroic beamsplitters.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein said dispersive optical element is a member selected from a group consisting of a transmission grating, a reflective diffraction grating, a holographic grating, a prism, and a diffractive lens.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein said digital processing comprises: image preprocessing; feature extraction; segmentation, wherein a region of interest of meibomian glands is designated and separated in said images; parameter estimation, wherein characterization parameters of said everted eyelid are estimated; evaluation, wherein pathological attributes and conditions are evaluated.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein said image preprocessing comprises reflectance calibration, transmittance calibration, image smoothing, contrast enhancement, and removal of illumination nonuniformity.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein said feature extraction comprises: generating additional digital spectral channels, by combination of at least two of said plurality of spectral channels of said detection system; generating false color images of said everted eyelid by selecting and combining spectral channels out of said plurality of spectral channels of said detection system and said additional digital spectral channels.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein said parameter estimation comprises a multilayer model of said everted eyelid, wherein each layer is modeled by said characterization parameters, wherein an inverse model based on a parametric method or a machine learning method is used for said parameter estimation.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein said machine learning method comprises a member selected from a group consisting of support vector machines, artificial neural networks, k-nearest neighbors algorithm.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein evaluating health comprises assessing an interconnection of palpebral vasculature and said at least one meibomian gland by image fusion with said at least one visible spectral channel and said at least one infrared spectral channel
19. The method of claim 1, wherein evaluating health comprises evaluating meibomian gland orifice obstruction and palpebral vasculature of the everted eyelid with images of an eyelid margin.
20. A multispectral or hyperspectral meibomian gland imaging device, comprising: a broadband illuminator to direct light toward at least a portion of an everted eyelid of a subject, wherein said light covers visible and infrared spectra; an imaging system to form images of said everted eyelid; a detection system, wherein said detection system separates said images into a plurality of spectral channels with optical filters or a dispersive optical element, wherein said plurality of spectral channels comprise at least one visible spectral channel and at least one infrared spectral channel.
</claims>
</document>
