<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A23F5/02,A23N15/00,B07C5/342,B07C5/36,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AVITONE CO., LTD.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Chiu, Chuang-Ming
Chiu, Yu-Shao
LIEN, WEI-CHENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73228585
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COFFEE BEAN SORTING SYSTEM HAVING ROTARY DISK
</title>

<abstract>
A coffee bean sorting system has a feeding mechanism, a rotary disk, at least one image capture device, an information processing device, and a removal mechanism. The rotary disk can receive coffee beans transported from the feeding mechanism, and can rotate along an axis thereof, such that the coffee beans are spaced apart from each other and form a succession. The image capture device can capture an initial image of each of the coffee beans. The information processing device can perform machine learning training or deep learning training function, identify each of the initial images, and after determining a coffee bean is non-conforming, make the removal mechanism to remove the non-conforming coffee bean.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A coffee bean sorting system having a rotary disk, including: a feeding mechanism, configured to transport a plurality of coffee beans thereon; the rotary disk, configured to receive the plurality of coffee beans transported from the feeding mechanism, and rotate along an axis thereof such that the plurality of coffee beans transported from the feeding mechanism are spaced apart from each other so as to be separate from each other and form a succession; at least one image capture device, configured to capture an initial image of each of the plurality of coffee beans; a first information processing device, configured to receive the initial image sent from the image capture device, and including: an image database, including a plurality of coffee bean models and a plurality of parameters; and a processing unit including at least one computing module, the computing module being configured to input the initial image in the plurality of coffee bean models and a plurality of parameters to output a comparison result, determine whether the each of the plurality of coffee beans is conforming based on the comparison result, and in response to determining at least one coffee bean is non-conforming, generate a removal signal corresponding to the non-conforming coffee bean; and at least one removal mechanism, configured to receive the removal signal sent from the information processing device, so as to remove the non-conforming coffee bean.
2. The system according to claim 1, further including a learning module located in the first information processing device or a second information processing device and configured to perform machine learning training or deep learning training to generate a model identifying the non-conforming coffee bean.
3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the rotary disk is transparent.
4. The system according to claim 3, further including a pre-sorting device, the pre-sorting device being adjacent to the feeding mechanism, and configured to adjust the time at which the each coffee bean falls onto the rotary disk.
5. The system according to claim 4, the pre-sorting device further including: a detection unit, configured to detect whether a coffee bean moves past the detection unit, and in response to detecting the coffee bean moving past the detection unit, generate a detection signal; and a sorting unit, configured to receive the detection signal, and in response to receiving the detection signal, operate for a period of time to remove any coffee bean moving past the pre-sorting device during the period of time.
6. The system according to claim 3, wherein the image capture device is located under a bottom side of the rotary disk as a lower image capture device, and the lower image capture device is configured to capture the initial image of the coffee bean through the rotary disk, the initial image being a bottom-side initial image.
7. The system according to claim 3, wherein the image capture device is located above a top surface of the rotary disk as an upper image capture device, and the upper image capture device is configured to capture the initial image of the coffee bean, the initial image being a top-side initial image.
8. The system according to claim 4, wherein the image capture device is located above a top surface of the rotary disk as an upper image capture device, and the upper image capture device is configured to capture the initial image of the coffee bean, the initial image being a top-side initial image.
9. The system according to claim 5, wherein the image capture device is located above a top surface of the rotary disk as an upper image capture device, and the upper image capture device is configured to capture the initial image of the coffee bean, the initial image being a top-side initial image.
10. The system according to claim 7, further including an aligning device, the aligning device being located on the rotary disk, and configured to bring the coffee beans transported from the feeding mechanism into alignment and space apart the plurality of coffee beans from each other to form the succession.
11. The system according to claim 8, further including an aligning device, the aligning device being located on the rotary disk, and configured to bring the coffee beans transported from the feeding mechanism into alignment and space apart the plurality of coffee beans from each other to form the succession.
12. The system according to claim 9, further including an aligning device, the aligning device being located on the rotary disk, and configured to bring the coffee beans transported from the feeding mechanism into alignment and space apart the plurality of coffee beans from each other to form the succession.
13. The system according to claim 10, wherein the aligning device includes at least one baffle plate disposed at an angle with an output opening of the feeding mechanism so that the coffee beans are blocked by the baffle plate and rotated by the rotary disk to be separate from each other to form the succession.
14. The system according to claim 11, wherein the aligning device includes at least one baffle plate disposed at an angle with an output opening of the feeding mechanism so that the coffee beans are blocked by the baffle plate and rotated by the rotary disk to be separate from each other to form the succession.
15. The system according to claim 12, wherein the aligning device includes at least one baffle plate disposed at an angle with an output opening of the feeding mechanism so that the coffee beans are blocked by the baffle plate and rotated by the rotary disk to be separate from each other to form the succession.
16. The system according to claim 10, wherein the aligning device includes at least one roller disposed at an angle with an output opening of the feeding mechanism so that the coffee beans are pushed by the roller and rotated by the rotary disk to be separate from each other to form the succession.
17. The system according to claim 11, wherein the aligning device includes at least one roller disposed at an angle with an output opening of the feeding mechanism so that the coffee beans are pushed by the roller and rotated by the rotary disk to be separate from each other to form the succession.
18. The system according to claim 12, wherein the aligning device includes at least one roller disposed at an angle with an output opening of the feeding mechanism so that the coffee beans are pushed by the roller and rotated by the rotary disk to be separate from each other to form the succession.
19. The system according to claim 10, wherein the removal mechanism is located on the rotary disk.
20. The system according to claim 11, wherein the removal mechanism is located on the rotary disk.
21. The system according to claim 12, wherein the removal mechanism is located on the rotary disk.
22. The system according to claim 19, further including a discharge mechanism configured to receive at least one coffee bean conforming to the standard.
23. The system according to claim 20, further including a discharge mechanism configured to receive at least one coffee bean conforming to a standard.
24. The system according to claim 21, further including a discharge mechanism configured to receive at least one coffee bean conforming to a standard.
25. The system according to claim 22, wherein the removal mechanism includes a nozzle and is configured to eject air to blow the non-conforming coffee bean off the rotary disk.
26. The system according to claim 23, wherein the removal mechanism includes a nozzle and is configured to eject air to blow the non-conforming coffee bean off the rotary disk.
27. The system according to claim 24, wherein the removal mechanism includes a nozzle and is configured to eject air to blow the non-conforming coffee bean off the rotary disk.
28. The system according to claim 22, wherein the removal mechanism includes a negative-pressure suction device and is configured to suck the non-conforming coffee bean away from the rotary disk.
29. The system according to claim 23, wherein the removal mechanism includes a negative-pressure suction device and is configured to suck the non-conforming coffee bean away from the rotary disk.
30. The system according to claim 24, wherein the removal mechanism includes a negative-pressure suction device and is configured to suck the non-conforming coffee bean away from the rotary disk.
31. The system according to claim 22, wherein the removal mechanism includes a push-away device and is configured to push the non-conforming coffee bean away from the rotary disk.
32. The system according to claim 23, wherein the removal mechanism includes a push-away device and is configured to push the non-conforming coffee bean away from the rotary disk.
33. The system according to claim 24, wherein the removal mechanism includes a push-away device and is configured to push the non-conforming coffee bean away from the rotary disk.
</claims>
</document>
