<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-01-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16B30/00,G16H10/60,G16H15/00,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FOUNDATION MEDICINE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAWRYLUK, MATTHEW, J.
LANCELOTTA, MARY PATRICIA
PALMER, GARY
PELLINI, MICHAEL
STEPHENS, PHILIP, JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51062467
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MANAGING GENOMIC TESTING RESULTS
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments provide interfaces to access genomic testing information and incorporate it into daily physician practice. In some embodiments, presentation of genomic alteration data is simplified and/or coupled with contextual applications. Volumes of genomic alterations and associated information (e.g., journal articles, clinical trial information, therapies, etc.) are analyzed and synthesized into actionable information items viewable on an alteration system. According to one embodiment, the system can be configured to focus practitioners on discrete portions of the alteration information on which they can act. According to other aspects, curated information is provided on the system to enable practitioners to make informed decisions regarding the implications of the presence of specific genomic alterations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for managing delivery of genomic testing information, the system comprising: at least one processor operatively connected to a memory, the at least one processor when executing is configured to: analyze one or more of a tumor type, gene, and alteration for the patient's cancer, wherein analyzing includes identifying associated information items matching at least one of the tumor type, gene, and alteration for the patient's cancer; and generate at least one genomic data structure including at least one tag, wherein the at least one tag is selectable to transition a user interface from the genomic data structure to an associated information display space including at least one associated information item describing information related to characteristics of the genomic data structure; and a user interface component, executed by the at least one processor, configured to: display the at least one genomic data structure within a user interface accessible over a communication network in a test result portion of the display, the at least one genomic data structure containing at least one tag that, when selected, transition the user interface to an associated information display space comprising a plurality of visual drawers wherein the visual drawers are configured to display in an unexpanded state and an expanded state, responsive to selection in the user interface; display in a first associated information a space an alteration interpretation drawer showing one or more alterations comprising at least a portion of the genomic testing results; display in a second associated space having a therapy drawer, the therapy drawer showing at least any one or more therapies associated with the one or more alterations; display in a third associated space or clinical trial space, including a clinical trial drawer showing at least any one or more clinical trials associated with the one or more alterations; and display in a fourth associated space including a references drawer, the references drawer showing at least any one or more references associated with the one or more alterations; wherein the user interface is configured to transition between expanded and unexpanded states of the respective information spaces without leaving a first display screen associated with the genomic testing results.
2. The system according to claim 1, further comprising a user wherein the user interface component is further configured to monitor the information spaces to determine if an expanded state threshold is exceeded, and responsive to exceeding the threshold transitioning at least one drawer not currently selected from an expanded state to an unexpanded state.
3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the user interface component is configured to assign associated information items to categories responsive to a type of information for the associated information item.
4. The system according to claim 3, wherein the user interface component is configured to generate two or more tags displayed within each genomic data structure, wherein the two or more tags are selected from a group of categories including therapy, clinical trial, genomic interpretation, and alteration.
5. The system according to claim 3, wherein the user interface component is configured to generate at least four tags within each genomic data structure for at least the therapy, clinical trial, genomic interpretation, and alteration categories.
6. The system according to claim 1, wherein the user interface component is configured to display a count of associated information items referenced by each tag.
7. The system according to claim 1, wherein the user interface component is configured to highlight the at least one associated information item within the associated information display space responsive to selection of the at least one tag.
8. The system according to claim 1, wherein the user interface component is configured to generate at least one data structure in the associated information display space for organizing associated informationitems.
9. The system according to claim 8, wherein the user interface component is configured to display the at least one organizing data structure in the associated information display space in an unexpanded view.
10. The system according to claim 9, wherein the unexpanded view conceals any associated information items.
11. The system according to claim 9, wherein the user interface component is configured to display the at least one organizing data structure in an expanded view responsive to at least one of the transition to the associated information space and selection of the at least one organizing data structure.
12. The system according to claim 10, wherein the expanded view includes a display of the at least one associated information organized by the at least one organizing data structure.
13. The system according to claim 8, wherein the user interface component is configured to generate organizing data structures for at least the therapy, clinical trial, genomic interpretation, alteration, and a references category. (New) The system according to claim 13, wherein one organizing data structure organizes associated information items for both the genomic interpretation and the alteration categories.
15. The system according to claim 13, wherein the user interface component is configured to limit a number of organizing data structures displayed in the expanded view.
16. The system according to claim 15, wherein the user interface component is configured to limit the number of organizing data structures displayed in the expanded view to one.
17. The system according to claim 13, wherein the user interface component is configured to generate an update organizing data structure for organizing any updated associated information items.
18. The system according to claim 17, wherein the user interface component is configured to identify updated associated information items responsive to a last view date.
19. The system according to claim 13, wherein the user interface component is configured to display the at least one associated information items within the associated information space.
20. The system according to claim 19, wherein the user interface component is configured to generate in each of the at least one associated information items a selectable display for navigating to at least one of a detailed view of an associated information item and an external source for the at least one information item.
21. The system according to claim 19, wherein the user interface component is configured to generate for each of the at least one associated information items organized in the genomic interpretation category at least one of: a) interpretive information; b) the name of the affected gene; and c) the type of alteration.
22. The system according to claim 19, wherein the user interface component is configured to generate for each of the at least one associated information items organized in the therapy category, one or more or all of: a) a therapy and one or more of all of: an indication of whether the therapy is approved for the patient's tumor type; an indication of whether the therapy is approved for other tumor types; b) an identifier for a therapy; c) the identity of the gene involved in the alteration; and d) the type of alteration.
23. The system according to claim 19, wherein the user interface component is configured to generate for each of the at least one associated information items organized in the clinical trial category one or more or all of the following: a) an identifier for a clinical trial, including a clinical trial that implicates one or more or all of the patient's tumor type, a gene affected by the patient' s alteration, the genetic alteration type; b) rationale for the trial; c) a description of the trial; d) a geographic location of trial; e) an identification of the target in clinical trial, and wherein one or more or all, of a, b, c and d, are presented concurrently to the user, without need for leaving the screen.
24. The system according to claim 19, wherein the user interface component is configured to generate for each of the at least one associated information items organized in the references category one or more or all of the following: a) reference bibliography information; and b) a navigable link to the reference.
25. The system according to claim 1, further comprising a storage component executed by the at least one processor configured to organize genomic testing results and associated information by patient according to a data model.
26. The system according to claim 25, wherein the data model comprises a data structure associated with patient records, and wherein the data structure includes data records for specification of tumor type, gene, and alteration.
27. The system according to claim 26, wherein all genomic testing results and the associated information is accessible by the storage component using gene and alteration records.
28. The system according to claim 26, wherein each patient record includes gene and alteration data units, and the storage component is configured to associate actionable information to the gene and alteration date units.
29. The system according to claim 28, wherein the actionable information includes therapy information items that specify whether an associated therapy is approved by the FDA in the patient's tumor type, and whether the associated therapy is approved by the FDA in another tumor type.
30. The system according to claim 25, wherein the data model includes specification of an actionability evaluation for associated information items.
31. The system according to claim 30, wherein therapy information items are assigned a highest level of actionability.
32. The system according to claim 30, wherein clinical trial information items are assigned a second level of actionability.
33. The system according to claim 30, wherein reference information items are assigned a lowest level of actionability.
34. The system according to claim 31, wherein genomic data structures can be assigned a display precedence responsive to a level of actionability determined from respective associated information items.
35. The system according to claim 1, further comprising an update component, executed by the at least one processor, configured to track any updates to one or more of genomic test results and any associated information items.
36. The system according to claim 35, wherein the update component is configured to communicate update notification to users responsive to identification of updated information.
37. The system according to claim 36, wherein the update component is configured to generate notifications according to user notification preferences.
</claims>
</document>
