<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LIVE NATION ENTERTAINMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
CERNOCH, DAN
CHUNG, VICTORIA
RODEN, MARK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69141029
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DYNAMIC QUEUE CONTROL USING MACHINE LEARNING TECHNIQUES
</title>

<abstract>
Certain embodiments of the present disclosure relate to systems and methods that control access to system resources, such as interfaces, access rights to events, query systems, and other suitable system resources. Further, certain embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a collision detection technique that is implemented to control which and/or a number of queue positions within a queue that are processed. In some implementations, a collision may be detected when two or more users request the same access right within a defined time period.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. (canceled)
2. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium containing instructions which, when executed on the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations including: displaying a first interface on a plurality of user devices, the first interface being associated with a resource; receiving, at the first interface, first input from each of the plurality of user devices, the first input corresponding to a request for access to a second interface, the second interface being configured to enable a user to request assignment of an access right granting access to the resource; determining, during a defined time period, a frequency of collisions between requests of the plurality of requests, a collision being determined upon at least two requests requesting a same access right within the defined time period; determining a throttle factor based on the detected frequency of collisions, the throttle factor being a modifiable rate of user devices being provided access to the second interface; selecting one or more user devices from the plurality of user devices, the selecting being based on the throttle factor; providing the selected one or more user devices with access to the second interface; and receiving, at the second interface, second input from each of the selected one or more user devices, the second input requesting assignment of one or more access rights to the resource.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the operations further comprise: storing a plurality of access rights to the resource, each access right of the plurality of access rights being associated with an digital ticket that enables access to the resource, wherein the resource is associated with an event, and each access right of the plurality of access rights being unique from other access rights of the plurality of access rights.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the operations further comprise: determining an additional throttle factor based on one or more characteristics of a user device or of the first input transmitted by the user device, wherein the additional throttle factor controls an aspect of interacting with the second interface.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the aspect of interacting with the second interface is a speed of loading the second interface.
6. The system of claim 2, wherein the operations further comprise: generating a queue to process the first input from each of the plurality of user devices, the queue including a plurality of queue positions, each queue position of the plurality of queue positions being configured to store the first input corresponding to a user device of the plurality of user devices; and storing a group of requests for assigning one or more access rights, each request of the group of requests being stored in a queue position of the queue, and the group of requests including at least a portion of requests received from the plurality of user devices.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the operations further comprise: processing the plurality of queue positions according to a workflow, the processing including identifying one or more queue positions of the plurality of queue positions at the modifiable rate and enabling the user device associated with each queue position of the one or more queue positions to complete an assignment process for assigning one or more access rights to the user device.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the throttle factor is used to control a workflow associated with processing one or more queue positions of the plurality of queue positions, the workflow causing the modifiable rate of user devices to be processed during a processing time period, the modifiable rate indicating a modifiable number of queue positions of the plurality of queue positions that are processed together during the processing time period, and the modifiable rate being determined based at least in part on the throttle factor.
9. A computer-implemented method, comprising: displaying a first interface on a plurality of user devices, the first interface being associated with a resource; receiving, at the first interface, first input from each of the plurality of user devices, the first input corresponding to a request for access to a second interface, the second interface being configured to enable a user to request assignment of an access right granting access to the resource; determining, during a defined time period, a frequency of collisions between requests of the plurality of requests, a collision being determined upon at least two requests requesting a same access right within the defined time period; determining a throttle factor based on the detected frequency of collisions, the throttle factor being a modifiable rate of user devices being provided access to the second interface; selecting one or more user devices from the plurality of user devices, the selecting being based on the throttle factor; providing the selected one or more user devices with access to the second interface; and receiving, at the second interface, second input from each of the selected one or more user devices, the second input requesting assignment of one or more access rights to the resource.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: storing a plurality of access rights to the resource, each access right of the plurality of access rights being associated with an digital ticket that enables access to the resource, wherein the resource is associated with an event, and each access right of the plurality of access rights being unique from other access rights of the plurality of access rights.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: determining an additional throttle factor based on one or more characteristics of a user device or of the first input transmitted by the user device, wherein the additional throttle factor controls an aspect of interacting with the second interface.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the aspect of interacting with the second interface is a speed of loading the second interface.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: generating a queue to process the first input from each of the plurality of user devices, the queue including a plurality of queue positions, each queue position of the plurality of queue positions being configured to store the first input corresponding to a user device of the plurality of user devices; and storing a group of requests for assigning one or more access rights, each request of the group of requests being stored in a queue position of the queue, and the group of requests including at least a portion of requests received from the plurality of user devices.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, further comprising: processing the plurality of queue positions according to a workflow, the processing including identifying one or more queue positions of the plurality of queue positions at the modifiable rate and enabling the user device associated with each queue position of the one or more queue positions to complete an assignment process for assigning one or more access rights to the user device.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein the throttle factor is used to control a workflow associated with processing one or more queue positions of the plurality of queue positions, the workflow causing the modifiable rate of user devices to be processed during a processing time period, the modifiable rate indicating a modifiable number of queue positions of the plurality of queue positions that are processed together during the processing time period, and the modifiable rate being determined based at least in part on the throttle factor.
16. A computer-program product tangibly embodied in a non-transitory machine-readable storage medium, including instructions configured to cause a processing apparatus to perform operations including: displaying a first interface on a plurality of user devices, the first interface being associated with a resource; receiving, at the first interface, first input from each of the plurality of user devices, the first input corresponding to a request for access to a second interface, the second interface being configured to enable a user to request assignment of an access right granting access to the resource; determining, during a defined time period, a frequency of collisions between requests of the plurality of requests, a collision being determined upon at least two requests requesting a same access right within the defined time period; determining a throttle factor based on the detected frequency of collisions, the throttle factor being a modifiable rate of user devices being provided access to the second interface; selecting one or more user devices from the plurality of user devices, the selecting being based on the throttle factor; providing the selected one or more user devices with access to the second interface; and receiving, at the second interface, second input from each of the selected one or more user devices, the second input requesting assignment of one or more access rights to the resource.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: storing a plurality of access rights to the resource, each access right of the plurality of access rights being associated with an digital ticket that enables access to the resource, wherein the resource is associated with an event, and each access right of the plurality of access rights being unique from other access rights of the plurality of access rights.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: determining an additional throttle factor based on one or more characteristics of a user device or of the first input transmitted by the user device, wherein the additional throttle factor controls an aspect of interacting with the second interface.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the aspect of interacting with the second interface is a speed of loading the second interface.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: generating a queue to process the first input from each of the plurality of user devices, the queue including a plurality of queue positions, each queue position of the plurality of queue positions being configured to store the first input corresponding to a user device of the plurality of user devices; and storing a group of requests for assigning one or more access rights, each request of the group of requests being stored in a queue position of the queue, and the group of requests including at least a portion of requests received from the plurality of user devices.
21. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the operations further comprise: processing the plurality of queue positions according to a workflow, the processing including identifying one or more queue positions of the plurality of queue positions at the modifiable rate and enabling the user device associated with each queue position of the one or more queue positions to complete an assignment process for assigning one or more access rights to the user device.
</claims>
</document>
