<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HRL LABORATORIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOWARD, MICHAEL, D.
CHOE, JAEHOON
KETZ, NICHOLAS A.
PILLY, PRAVEEN K.
Patel, Aashish
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74065732
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTINUAL DECODING OF BRAIN STATES TO MULTI-DEGREE-OF-FREEDOM CONTROL SIGNALS IN HANDS FREE DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
A brain-machine interface system configured to decode neural signals to control a target device includes a sensor to sample the neural signals, and a computer-readable storage medium having software instructions, which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to transform the neural signals into a common representational space stored in the system, provide the common representational space as a state representation to inform an Actor recurrent neural network policy of the system, generate and evaluate, utilizing a deep recurrent neural network of the system having a generative sequence decoder, predictive sequences of control signals, supply a control signal to the target device to achieve an output of the target device, determine an intrinsic biometric-based reward signal, from the common representational space, based on an expectation of the output of the target device, and supply the intrinsic biometric-based reward signal to a Critic model of the system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A brain-machine interface system configured to decode neural signals to control a target device, the brain-machine interface system comprising: at least one sensor configured to sample the neural signals; and a computer-readable storage medium having software instructions stored therein, which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: transform the neural signals into a common representational space stored in the brain-machine interface system; provide the common representational space as a state representation to inform an Actor recurrent neural network policy of the brain-machine interface system; generate and evaluate, utilizing a deep recurrent neural network of the brain-machine interface system having a generative sequence decoder, predictive sequences of control signals for the target device; supply a specific control signal derived from the predictive sequences of control signals to the target device to achieve an output of the target device; determine an intrinsic biometric-based reward signal, from the common representational space, based on an expectation of the output of the target device; and supply the intrinsic biometric-based reward signal to a Critic model of the brain-machine interface system.
2. The brain-machine interface system of claim 1, wherein at least one sensor is configured to sample the neural signals invasively or non-invasively.
3. The brain-machine interface system of claim 2, wherein at least one sensor comprises an invasive electrocorticographic (ECoG) device or an intracranial electroencephalography (iEEG) device.
4. The brain-machine interface system of claim 1, wherein transforming the neural signals into the common representational space comprises: identifying regions of the neural signals with informative activations for controlling the target device, and performing subject-specific transforms to align the regions across different users.
5. The brain-machine interface system of claim 1, wherein the intrinsic biometric-based reward is a positive emotional response when the output of the target device matches a user's intended output.
6. The brain-machine interface system of claim 1, wherein the intrinsic biometric-based reward is a negative emotional response when the output of the target device does not match a user's intended output.
7. The brain-machine interface system of claim 1, wherein the software instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to generate and evaluate the predictive sequences of the control signals utilizing a tree search.
8. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having software instructions stored therein, which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: transform neural data from an individual user into a common representational space of a brain-machine interface system; provide the common representational space as a state representation to inform an Actor recurrent neural network policy of the brain-machine interface system; generate and evaluate, utilizing a deep recurrent neural network of the brain-machine interface system having a generative sequence decoder, predictive sequences of control signals for a target device; supply a specific control signal derived from the predictive sequences of control signals to the target device to produce an output of the target device; determine an intrinsic biometric-based reward, from the common representational space, based on the individual user's expectation of the output of the target device; and supply the intrinsic biometric-based reward to a Critic model of the brain-machine interface system.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the instructions, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to transform the neural data into the common representational space by: identifying regions of the neural data with informative activations for controlling the target device, and performing subject-specific transforms to align the regions across different users.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the instructions, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to determine the intrinsic biometric-based reward by decoding an emotional response from the individual user to the output of the target device.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the intrinsic biometric-based reward is a positive emotional response when the output of the target device matches the individual user's intended output.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the intrinsic biometric-based reward is a negative emotional response when the output of the target device does not match the individual user's intended output.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the software instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to generate and evaluate the predictive sequences of the control signals utilizing a tree search.
14. A method of controlling a target device utilizing neural data, the method comprising: sampling the neural data from a user; transforming the neural data into a common representational space of a brain-machine interface system; supplying the common representational space as a state representation to inform an Actor recurrent neural network policy of the brain-machine interface system; generating and evaluating, utilizing a deep recurrent neural network of the brain-machine interface system having a generative sequence decoder, predictive sequences of control signals for the target device; supplying a specific control signal derived from the predictive sequences of control signals to the target device to produce an output of the target device; determining an intrinsic reward, from the common representational space, based on the user's expectation of the output of the target device; and supplying the intrinsic reward to a Critic model of the brain-machine interface system.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the evaluating the predictive sequences of the control signals comprises a tree search.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the transforming the neural data into the common representational space comprises: identifying regions of the neural data with informative activations for controlling the target device, and performing subject-specific transforms to align the regions across different users.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the determining the intrinsic reward comprises decoding an emotional response from the user to the output of the target device.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the emotional response is a positive emotional response when the output of the target device is expected.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the emotional response is a negative emotional response when the output of the target device is unexpected.
20. The method of claim 14, wherein the sampling the neural data from the user is performed invasively or non-invasively.
</claims>
</document>
