<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08B21/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HOLT, PAULA
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOLT, PAULA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70051450
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Baby cloud
</title>

<abstract>
A child monitor device system which collects visual and audio data at a first location [and also transmits visual and auditory signals at this first location], ideally a baby's crib, then provides access to [and displays] this data at a second location (e.g. a touchscreen monitor-&-speaker-system on the dashboard of a parent's vehicle) via specially-tailored systems and device(s) which additionally alert the parent to hazards, and wherein the monitor device system may be detached and moved to a third location (e.g. a car's back seat) so the parent can continuously monitor [and entertain] the child throughout the day. The device itself is portable via removable couplings.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a portable baby monitor module, comprising: a baby monitor device, comprising; a cloud structure, comprising: a substantially cloud-shaped composition of matter having a cloud structure first side comprising a surface including a plurality of conjoined substantially spherical protrusions; and, having a cloud structure second side substantially opposite the cloud structure first side; a processor; a speaker disposed in the cloud structure first side, and operably coupled with the processor; a microphone disposed in the cloud structure first side, and operably coupled with the processor; a camera disposed in the cloud structure first side, and operably coupled with the processor; a mounting coupling disposed in the cloud structure second side, and adapted to releasably couple with a connector; and, a memory that is not a transitory propagating signal, the memory connected to the processor and encoding computer readable instructions, including processor executable program instructions, the computer readable instructions accessible to the processor, wherein the processor executable program instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: monitor a child as a function of image and audio data captured at a first location; provide access at a second location to image and audio data of the child captured at a third location; and, automatically send alerts generated in response to exceptional child conditions detected as a function of image and audio data captured at the third location; and, a connector configured to releasably secure the baby monitor device to a support structure retaining the connector when the connector is engaged with the mounting coupling disposed in the cloud structure second side.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the baby monitor device is secured to a support structure retaining the connector engaged by the mounting coupling.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the connector further comprises a substantially circular shape.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mounting coupling disposed in the cloud structure second side further comprises a substantially circular shape.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the mounting coupling disposed in the cloud structure second side further comprises a groove longitudinally disposed in the surface of the circularly-shaped mounting coupling's circumference.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mounting coupling disposed in the cloud structure second side further comprises a power supply connection.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the power supply connection further comprises a USB power connection.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the connector further comprises a power supply connection.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the power supply connection further comprises a USB power connection.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the operations performed by the processor further comprise configuring a cloud-based virtual assistant to automatically trigger alerts based on exceptional child conditions detected as a function of image or audio data captured from the third location.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the exceptional child conditions further comprise silent choking.
12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the operations performed by the processor further comprise automatically triggering alerts based on exceptional child conditions detected as a function of image or audio data captured from the third location.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the exceptional child conditions further comprise silent choking.
14. An apparatus, comprising: a portable baby monitor module, comprising: a baby monitor device, comprising; a cloud structure, comprising: a substantially cloud-shaped composition of matter having a cloud structure first side comprising a surface including a plurality of conjoined substantially spherical protrusions; and, having a cloud structure second side substantially opposite the cloud structure first side; a processor; a speaker disposed in the cloud structure first side, and operably coupled with the processor; a microphone disposed in the cloud structure first side, and operably coupled with the processor; a camera disposed in the cloud structure first side, and operably coupled with the processor; a substantially circular mounting coupling disposed in the cloud structure second side, configured with a USB power connection, having a groove longitudinally disposed in the surface of the mounting coupling's circumference, and adapted to releasably couple with a connector; and, a memory that is not a transitory propagating signal, the memory connected to the processor and encoding computer readable instructions, including processor executable program instructions, the computer readable instructions accessible to the processor, wherein the processor executable program instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: monitor a child as a function of image and audio data captured at a first location; provide access at a second location to image and audio data of the child captured at a third location; configure a cloud-based virtual assistant to trigger alerts based on exceptional child conditions detected as a function of image or audio data captured from the third location; and, automatically send alerts generated in response to exceptional child conditions detected as a function of image and audio data captured at the third location; and, a substantially circular connector, including a USB power connection, the connector engaged with the mounting coupling disposed in the cloud structure second side and releasably securing the baby monitor device to a support structure retaining the connector.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the operations performed by the processor further comprise rotating the camera substantially 180 degrees.
16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the apparatus further comprises a strap adapted with hook-and-loop fastening means to releasably secure the baby monitor device to a vehicle interior structure.
17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the apparatus further comprises a stand adapted to retain a connector configured to releasably secure the baby monitor device to the stand when the connector is engaged with the mounting coupling disposed in the cloud structure second side.
18. An apparatus, comprising: a portable baby monitor module, comprising: a baby monitor device, comprising; a cloud structure, comprising: a substantially cloud-shaped composition of matter having a cloud structure first side comprising a surface including a plurality of conjoined substantially spherical protrusions; and, having a cloud structure second side substantially opposite the cloud structure first side; a processor; a speaker disposed in the cloud structure first side, and operably coupled with the processor; a microphone disposed in the cloud structure first side, and operably coupled with the processor; a camera disposed in the cloud structure first side, and operably coupled with the processor; a substantially circular mounting coupling disposed in the cloud structure second side, configured with a USB power connection, having a groove longitudinally disposed in the surface of the mounting coupling's circumference, and adapted to releasably couple with a connector; and, a memory that is not a transitory propagating signal, the memory connected to the processor and encoding computer readable instructions, including processor executable program instructions, the computer readable instructions accessible to the processor, wherein the processor executable program instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: communicate with a mobile device application to receive operational commands from the mobile device application and send monitored child video and audio feeds to the mobile device application; monitor a child as a function of image and audio data captured at a first location; provide access at a second location to image and audio data of the child captured at a third location; send monitored child video and audio data captured from the third location to a monitor device at the second location; and, automatically trigger alerts based on exceptional child conditions detected as a function of image or audio data captured from the third location; and, a substantially circular connector, including a USB power connection, the connector engaged with the mounting coupling disposed in the cloud structure second side and releasably securing the baby monitor device to a support structure retaining the connector.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the operations performed by the processor further comprise playing on the speaker music selected by the mobile device application.
20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the operations performed by the processor further comprise playing on the speaker audio transmitted by the mobile device application.
</claims>
</document>
