<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06F3/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
FAULKNER, JASON THOMAS
CAIS, Marek
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70482882
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROVIDING CONSISTENT INTERACTION MODELS IN COMMUNICATION SESSIONS
</title>

<abstract>
The techniques disclosed herein improve existing computing systems by providing consistent interaction models during communication sessions. A system configured according to the disclosure presented herein can improve user engagement during communication sessions and conserve computing resources by enabling users to define arrangements of display areas in a user interface (UI) for presenting content during a communication session and to utilize the same pre-defined arrangement during multiple communication sessions. The arrangement can be presented to all or some of the participants in a communication session. By providing a consistent arrangement of display areas that render content to participants in communication sessions, the participants can be more engaged and productive, thereby improving human-computer interaction and conserving computing resources.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for execution to be performed by a data processing system, the method comprising: causing a display of a user interface (UI) on a display device, the UI comprising a plurality of display areas, individual display areas of the plurality of display areas configured to display renderings of content; receiving a user input requesting to make a selected one of the plurality of display areas stationary within a primary display area of the UI; responsive to receiving the user input, configuring the selected one of the plurality of display areas such that it remains stationary within the primary display area of the UI; storing a view template comprising data defining an arrangement of the display areas in the primary display area; and processing the view template in association with an occurrence of a recurring communication session to render the arrangement of the display areas, including the selected one of the plurality of display areas configured to be stationary within the primary display area of the UI, during the occurrence of the recurring communication session.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting the view template to one or more other data processing systems, whereby the one or more other data processing systems process the view template to render the arrangement of the display areas.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein at least one of the one or more other data processing systems is configured to render a subset of the plurality of display areas, the subset of the plurality of display areas selected based upon permissions associated with a user of the at least one or more other data processing systems.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein at least one of the one or more other data processing systems is configured to prevent modification of the arrangement of the display areas based upon permissions associated with a user of the at least one or more other data processing systems.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving view usage data describing an arrangement of display areas presented by one or more other data processing systems during the occurrence of the recurring communication session; and storing a second view template, the second view template comprising data defining an arrangement of display areas selected based upon the view usage data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the data defining the arrangement of the display areas in the primary display area comprises data defining locations of the plurality of display areas, data identifying content associated with the plurality of display areas, and data indicating whether the plurality of display areas are stationary within the primary display area.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the view template further comprises data identifying one or more users authorized to use the view template to render the arrangement of the display areas.
8. A computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable instructions encoded thereupon which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: store a plurality of view templates, each view template comprising data defining an arrangement of display areas in a primary display area of a user interface (UI), wherein the display areas are configured to display renderings of content, and wherein the data further specifies that at least one of the display areas is stationary within the primary display area of the UI; receive a selection of one of the plurality of view templates in association with a communication session; and render the UI on at least one computing device associated with the communication session using the selected one of the plurality of view templates, the UI comprising the arrangement of display areas in the primary display area, wherein the at least one of the display areas is stationary within the primary display area of the UI.
9. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the selection of the one of the plurality of view templates is received by way of a user interface for defining an invitation to the communication session.
10. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the selection of the one of the plurality of view templates is made based upon permissions associated with participants in the communication session.
11. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the selection of the one of the plurality of view templates is made by a machine learning component.
12. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the selection of the one of the plurality of view templates is received by way of a selection of a thumbnail image corresponding to the selected one of the plurality of view templates from among a plurality of thumbnail images corresponding to the plurality of view templates.
13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the selection of the one of the plurality of view templates is made based upon data associated with an invitation to the communication session.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the data defining the arrangement of the display areas in the primary display area comprises data defining locations of the plurality of display areas, data identifying content associated with the plurality of display areas, and data indicating whether the plurality of display areas are stationary within the primary display area.
15. A system, comprising: means for causing a display of a user interface (UI) on a display device, the UI comprising a plurality of display areas, individual display areas of the plurality of display areas configured to display renderings of content associated with a first communication session; means for receiving a user input requesting to make a selected one of the plurality of display areas stationary within a primary display area of the UI; means for configuring the selected one of the plurality of display areas such that it remains stationary within the primary display area of the UI responsive to receiving the user input; means for storing a view template comprising data defining an arrangement of the display areas in the primary display area; and means for processing the view template in association with a second communication session to render the arrangement of the display areas including the selected one of the plurality of display areas configured to be stationary within the primary display area of the UI during the second communication session, wherein the second communication session comprises an occurrence of a recurring communication session.
16. The system of claim 15, further comprising means for transmitting the view template to one or more other data processing systems, whereby the one or more other data processing systems process the view template to render the arrangement of the display areas.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein at least one of the one or more other data processing systems is configured to render a subset of the plurality of display areas, the subset of the plurality of display areas selected based upon permissions associated with a user of the at least one or more other data processing systems.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein at least one of the one or more other data processing systems is configured to prevent modification of the arrangement of the display areas based upon permissions associated with a user of the at least one or more other data processing systems.
19. The system of claim 15, further comprising: receiving view usage data describing an arrangement of display areas presented by one or more other data processing systems during the first communication session; and storing a second view template, the second view template comprising data defining an arrangement of display areas selected based upon the view usage data.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the data defining the arrangement of the display areas in the primary display area comprises data defining locations of the plurality of display areas, data identifying content associated with the plurality of display areas, and data indicating whether the plurality of display areas are stationary within the primary display area.
</claims>
</document>
