<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F7/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
JOHNSTON, MARIETTA
KRISHM, LAKSHMINARAYANAN
LEE, AARON
MCAVOY, KELLIN
PARSONS, MICHAEL-JAMES
WILLIAMSON, LEIGH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70457754
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Object Mining and Recognition System
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments are directed to a system, computer program product, and method for dynamic object mining A received file is segmented, re-formatted, and organized into buffers, while maintaining the order of the received file. Multiple buffers are processed in parallel for object mining A listener is encoded into the buffers to support asynchronous processing, and more specifically ordering of mined objects. An output file of the mined objected or associated frames is created. The file is populated with a sequential ordering of the objects that follows the order of the received file.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a processing unit operatively coupled to memory; a receiver, operatively coupled to the processing unit, the receiver to receive at least one first file having first formatted data; an encoder, operatively coupled to the receiver, the encoder to separate the received file into a plurality of segments and fit the segments into two or more buffers, wherein each segment is converted to a second format meeting a well-formed format and has an assigned sequential mapping into an associated buffer; a manager, operatively coupled to the encoder, the manager to iteratively process each of the segments, including: concurrently send each buffer in parallel to an analysis service, and return one or more entries in the at least two buffers meeting an analysis criteria; and selectively identify one or more frames of interest in one of more of the buffers, wherein each identified frame includes a recognized object meeting the analysis criteria; and a file output created by the manager, the file output comprised of an arrangement of each identified frame, wherein the arrangement includes a sequential order as determined by the well-formed format.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein encoder attaches a listener to each of the one or more buffers, wherein the listener functions as a marker for asynchronous processing of the one or more buffers.
3. The system of claim 2, further comprising the manager to combine the identified frame from each of the one or more segments, leverage the listener attached to each buffer and metadata attached to each segment to create an order of the identified frames, and sequentially arrange the identified frames based on the created order.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the iterative processing of the segments includes processing each of the two or more buffers in parallel.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein encoder selects a conversion format complying with one or more specifications of the selected conversion format to encode each first formatted segment into the second formatted segment.
6. A computer program product for file analysis, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage device having program code embodied therewith, the program code executable by a processor to: receive at least one first file having first formatted data; encode the received file into a plurality of segments and fit the segments into two or more buffers separate the segments into two or more buffers, wherein each segment is converted to a second format meeting a well-formed format and has an assigned sequential mapping into an associated buffer; iteratively process each of the segments, including: concurrently send each buffer in parallel to an analysis service, and return one or more entries in the at least two buffer meeting an analysis criteria; and selectively identify one or more frames of interest in one of more of the buffers, wherein each identified frame includes a recognized object meeting the analysis criteria; and a created file output, the file output comprised of an arrangement of each identified frame, wherein the arrangement includes a sequential order as determined by the well-formed format.
7. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the program to encode the segments into the buffer attaches a listener to each of the one or more buffers, wherein the listener functions as a marker for asynchronous processing of the one or more buffers.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, further comprising program code to combine the identified frame from each of the one or more segments, leverage the listener attached to each buffer and metadata attached to each segment to create an order of the identified frames, and sequentially arrange the identified frames based on the created order.
9. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the program code to iteratively process the segments includes processing each of the two or more buffers in parallel.
10. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the program code to encode the segments into the buffer selects a conversion format complying with one or more specifications of the selected conversion format to encode each first formatted segment into the second formatted segment.
11. A method comprising: receiving at least one first file having first formatted data; encoding the received file into a plurality of segments and fitting the segments into two or more buffers, wherein each segment is converted to a second format meeting a well-formed format and has an assigned sequential mapping into an associated buffer; iteratively processing each of the segments, including: concurrentaly sending each buffer in parallel to an analysis service, and returning one or more entries in the at least two buffer meeting an analysis criteria; selectively identifying one or more frames of interest in one of more of the buffers, wherein each identified frame includes a recognized object meeting the analysis criteria; and a file output comprised of an arrangement of each identified frame, wherein the arrangement includes a sequential order as determined by the well-formed format.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein ecoding the plurality of segments into one or more buffers further comprises attaching a listener to each of the one or more buffers, wherein the listener functions as a marker for asynchronous processing of the one or more buffers.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising combining the identified frame from each of the one or more segments, leveraging the listener attached to each buffer and metadata attached to each segment to create an order of the identified frames, and sequentially arranged the identified frames based on the created order.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the iteratively processing of the segments includes processing each of the two or more buffers in parallel.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein encoding each first formatted segment into the second formatted segment comprises selecting a conversion format and complying with one or more specifications of the selected conversion format.
</claims>
</document>
