<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/182,G06F16/906,G06F21/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHILDRESS RHONDA L.
BENDER, MICHAEL
RODRIGUEZ BRAVO, CESAR AUGUSTO
TRIM, CRAIG M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73745112
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA SECURITY COMPLIANCE FOR MOBILE DEVICE APPLICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present invention provides methods, computer program products, and a system for maintain application compliance. Embodiments of the present invention identify locations of potentially sensitive data. Embodiments of the present invention identify a set of individuals associated with the potentially sensitive data and determine whether an application can be installed based on content of potentially sensitive data and on elections of respective individuals associated with the potentially sensitive data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: identifying locations of potentially sensitive data; identifying a set of individuals associated with the potentially sensitive data; and determining whether an application can be installed based on content of the potentially sensitive data and on elections of respective individuals associated with the potentially sensitive data.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to determining that the application cannot be installed, preventing installation of the application.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to receiving a request to access the potentially sensitive data, determining whether a user associated with a device requesting access has permission to access the potentially sensitive data; and in response to determining that the user associated with the device requesting access does not have permission, deleting the potentially sensitive data.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining whether an application can be installed based on content of the potentially sensitive data and on elections of respective individuals associated with the potentially sensitive data comprises: identifying data types being requested by an application; determining whether the identified data types match data types listed in a governance model that includes data types that contain potentially sensitive data; in response to determining that the identified data types match data types listed in the governance model, classifying content of the identified data types as sensitive or not sensitive; and in response to classifying content of the identified data types as sensitive, retrieving user elections and processing the classified content according to the retrieved user elections.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: in response to classifying contents of data types as sensitive, deleting content that is classified as sensitive.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: transmitting a request for permission to store content in a blockchain ledger.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving data; determining whether the received data is sensitive; and in response to determining that the received data is sensitive, processing the received data based on elections of a user.
8. A computer program product comprising: one or more computer readable storage media and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to identify locations of potentially sensitive data; program instructions to identify a set of individuals associated with the potentially sensitive data; and program instructions to determine whether an application can be installed based on content of the potentially sensitive data and on elections of respective individuals associated with the potentially sensitive data.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to, in response to determining that the application cannot be installed, prevent installation of the application.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to, in response to receiving a request to access the potentially sensitive data, determine whether a user associated with a device requesting access has permission to access the potentially sensitive data; and program instructions to, in response to determining that the user associated with the device requesting access does not have permission, delete the potentially sensitive data.
11. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the program instructions to determine whether an application can be installed based on content of the potentially sensitive data and on elections of respective individuals associated with the potentially sensitive data comprise: program instructions to identify data types being requested by an application; program instructions to determine whether the identified data types match data types listed in a governance model that includes of data types that contain potentially sensitive data; program instructions to, in response to determining that the identified data types match data types listed in the governance model, classify content of the identified data types as sensitive or not sensitive; and program instructions to, in response to classifying content of the identified data types as sensitive, retrieve user elections and process the classified content according to the retrieved user elections.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to, in response to classifying content of data types as sensitive, delete content that is classified as sensitive.
13. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to transmit a request for permission to store content in a blockchain ledger.
14. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to receive data; program instructions to determine whether the received data is sensitive; and program instructions to, in response to determining that the received data is sensitive, process the received data based on elections of a user.
15. A computer system comprising: one or more computer processors; one or more computer readable storage media; and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more processors, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to identify locations of potentially sensitive data; program instructions to identify a set of individuals associated with the potentially sensitive data; and program instructions to determine whether an application can be installed based on content of the potentially sensitive data and on elections of respective individuals associated with the potentially sensitive data.
16. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to, in response to determining that the application cannot be installed, prevent installation of the application.
17. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to, in response to receiving a request to access the potentially sensitive data, determine whether a user associated with a device requesting access has permission to access the potentially sensitive data; and program instructions to, in response to determining that the user associated with the device requesting access does not have permission, delete the potentially sensitive data.
18. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the program instructions to determine whether an application can be installed based on content of the potentially sensitive data and on elections of respective individuals associated with the potentially sensitive data comprise: program instructions to identify data types being requested by an application; program instructions to determine whether the identified data types match data types listed in a governance model that includes of data types that contain potentially sensitive data; program instructions to, in response to determining that the identified data types match data types listed in the governance model, classify content of the identified data types as sensitive or not sensitive; and program instructions to, in response to classifying content of the identified data types as sensitive, retrieve user elections and process the classified content according to the retrieved user elections.
19. The computer system of claim 18, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to, in response to classifying content of data types as sensitive, delete content that is classified as sensitive.
20. The computer system of claim 18, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to transmit a request for permission to store content in a blockchain ledger.
</claims>
</document>
