<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2458,G06F16/951,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QOMPLX
</assignee>

<inventors>
CRABTREE, JASON
SELLERS, ANDREW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72424295
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PARAMETRIC ANALYSIS OF INTEGRATED OPERATIONAL TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for analyzing integrated operational technology and information technology systems with sufficient granularity to predict their behavior with a high degree of accuracy. The system and method involve creating high-fidelity models of the operational technology and information technology systems using one or more cyber-physical graphs, performing parametric analyses of the models to identify key components, scaling the parametric analyses of the models to analyze the key components at a greater level of granularity, and iteratively improving the models testing them against in-situ data from the real-world systems represented by the high-fidelity models.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for parametric analysis of integrated operational technology systems and information technology systems, comprising: a cyber-physical graph module comprising a first plurality of programming instructions stored in a memory of, and operating on a processor of, a computing device, wherein the first plurality of programming instructions, when operating on the processor, cause the computing device to: receive information about a combined system, the combined system comprising information technology elements and operational technology elements, and the information comprising entities associated with the combined system and relationships between entities associated with the combined system; create a model of the combined system using the information, the model comprising a cyber-physical graph which comprises nodes representing the entities associated with the combined system and edges representing the relationships between entities associated with the combined system; a model analyzer comprising a second plurality of programming instructions stored in the memory of, and operating on the processor of, the computing device, wherein the second plurality of programming instructions, when operating on the processor, cause the computing device to: perform one or more iterative parameter analyses of one or more parameters of the model of the combined system; determine a response of the model of the combined system to each of the iterative parameter analyses performed; identify one or more key parameters based on the responses of the model of the combined system; send the one or more key parameters to a scaling optimizer; and a scaling optimizer comprising a third plurality of programming instructions stored in the memory of, and operating on the processor of, the computing device, wherein the third plurality of programming instructions, when operating on the processor, cause the computing device to: receive the one or more key parameters from the model analyzer; determine an amount of computing resources available; calculate scaling parameters based on the key parameters and the amount of computing resources available by: determining a dimensionality in which to run the model of the combined system; determining a set of perturbations and iterative cycles to use when running a simulation on the model of the combined system; and determining a threshold degree in change of state of the model of the combined system at or above which a new simulation should be triggered.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the model of the combined system further comprises a distributed computational graph which comprises nodes representing data transformations and edges representing messages between the nodes, wherein the distributed computational graph represents workflows within the model of the combined system.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the model analyzer runs one or more simulations on the model of the combined system based on the scaling parameters and produces simulation data.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the model analyzer is further configured to: receive operational data from the combined system; compare the operational data to the simulation data; and change the model of the combined system to minimize differences between the operational data and the simulation data.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the simulation data are used to predict behaviors of the combined system.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the predicted behaviors are used to determine a behavior of the combined system under parameters that suggest control by an unauthorized entity.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the predicted behaviors are used to adjust operation of the combined system.
8. The system of claim 1 wherein additional state information of the system is captured as time-series data using individual time-series swimlanes and referenced by nodes and edges in the graph.
9. A method for parametric analysis of integrated operational technology systems and information technology systems, comprising the steps of: receiving information about a combined system, the combined system comprising information technology elements and operational technology elements, and the information comprising entities associated with the combined system and relationships between entities associated with the combined system; creating a model of the combined system using the information, the model comprising a cyber-physical graph which comprises nodes representing the entities associated with the combined system and edges representing the relationships between entities associated with the combined system; performing one or more iterative parameter analyses of one or more parameters of the model of the combined system; determining a response of the model of the combined system to each of the iterative parameter analyses performed; identifying one or more key parameters based on the responses of the model of the combined system; determining an amount of computing resources available; calculating scaling parameters based on the key parameters and the amount of computing resources available by: determining a dimensionality in which to run the model of the combined system; determining a set of perturbations and iterative cycles to use when running a simulation on the model of the combined system; and determining a threshold degree in change of state of the model of the combined system at or above which a new simulation should be triggered.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the model of the combined system further comprises a distributed computational graph which comprises nodes representing data transformations and edges representing messages between the nodes, wherein the distributed computational graph represents workflows within the model of the combined system.
11. The method of claim 9, comprising the further step of running one or more simulations on the model of the combined system based on the scaling parameters and produces simulation data.
12. The method of claim 11, comprising the further steps of: receiving operational data from the combined system; comparing the operational data to the simulation data; and changing the model of the combined system to minimize differences between the operational data and the simulation data.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the simulation data are used to predict behaviors of the combined system.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the predicted behaviors are used to determine a behavior of the combined system under parameters that suggest control by an unauthorized entity.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the predicted behaviors are used to adjust operation of the combined system.
16. The system of claim 1 wherein additional state information of the system is captured as time-series data using individual time-series swimlanes and referenced by nodes and edges in the graph.
</claims>
</document>
