<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0484,G06N20/00,G06N5/02,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BENDER, MICHAEL
RAKSHIT, SARBAJIT K.
SEAGER, TODD P.
MORAN, John F.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73047413
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GRAPHICAL CHATBOT INTERFACE FACILITATING USER-CHATBOT INTERACTION
</title>

<abstract>
Interaction with a chatbot of a computer system is facilitated by receiving, by the chatbot, a request from a user of the chatbot, where the request establishes a user-chatbot interaction. Based at least in part on the request, a plurality of predicted chatbot paths are generated, forming a hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction. A graphical chatbot interface including, at least in part, the hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction is provided for display on an electronic device, and a selection by the user of one predicted chatbot path of the graphical chatbot interface is received, via the electronic device, as part of the user-chatbot interaction, where the providing of the graphical chatbot interface facilitates user interaction with the chatbot along the selected predicted chatbot path.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of facilitating user interaction with a chatbot of a computer system, the method comprising: receiving a request from a user to the chatbot, the request establishing a user-chatbot interaction; based at least in part on the request, generating a plurality of predicted chatbot paths forming a hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction; providing for display on an electronic device a graphical chatbot interface with, at least in part, the hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction; and receiving, via the electronic device, a selection by the user of one predicted chatbot path of the graphical chatbot interface as part of the user-chatbot interaction, where the providing for display the graphical chatbot interface facilitates the user interaction with the chatbot along the selected predicted chatbot path.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the request is a request selected from the group consisting of an audio request to the chatbot and a textual request to the chatbot.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the electronic device comprises a touchscreen display, and the selection by the user of the one predicted chatbot path of the graphical chatbot interface is via the touchscreen display.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising, based on the receiving of the selection by the user of one predicted chatbot path, generating a plurality of additional predicted chatbot paths forming a new hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction, and providing for display on the electronic device a revised graphical chatbot interface containing, at least in part, the new hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein based on providing the revised graphical chatbot interface, receiving an additional user input to the chatbot via an additional audio or textual request, or a predicted chatbot path selection from the revised graphical chatbot interface via the electronic device.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing, at least in part, a depiction of the user-chatbot interaction on the electronic device concurrent with the graphical chatbot interface with, at least in part, the hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the plurality of predicted chatbot paths of the hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction comprises using a cognitive agent to evaluate a knowledge base to determine, based at least in part on the request, the plurality of predicted chatbot paths for the user-chatbot interaction.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the knowledge base comprises, at least in part, historical data on prior user interactions with the chatbot.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the cognitive agent utilizes machine learning to predict the plurality of predicted chatbot paths forming the hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the cognitive agent evaluates user communications with the chatbot, and potential chatbot responses, to ascertain predicted chatbot paths with a predicted confidence level above a set confidence threshold to determine the plurality of predicted chatbot paths forming the hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising, receiving data from one or more devices associated with the user, and using the data in determining, at least in part, the plurality of predicted chatbot paths forming the hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the one or more devices associated with the user comprise one or more Internet of Things (IoT) devices, and the data comprises IoT data received from the one or more IoT devices.
13. A computer system comprising: a memory; and one or more processors in communication with the memory, wherein the computer system is configured to perform a method comprising: receiving a request from a user to the chatbot, the request establishing a user-chatbot interaction; based at least in part on the request, generating a plurality of predicted chatbot paths forming a hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction; providing for display on an electronic device a graphical chatbot interface with, at least in part, the hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction; and receiving, via the electronic device, a selection by the user of one predicted chatbot path of the graphical chatbot interface as part of the user-chatbot interaction, where the providing for display the graphical chatbot interface facilitates the user interaction with the chatbot along the selected predicted chatbot path.
14. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the request is a request selected from the group consisting of an audio request to the chatbot and a textual request to the chatbot, the electronic device comprises a touchscreen display, and the selection by the user of the one predicted chatbot path of the graphical chatbot interface is via the touchscreen display.
15. The computer system of claim 14, further comprising, based on the receiving of the selection by the user of one predicted chatbot path, generating a plurality of additional predicted chatbot paths forming a new hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction, and providing for display on the display device a revised graphical interface containing, at least in part, the new hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction.
16. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the generating of the plurality of predicted chatbot paths of the hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction comprises using a cognitive agent to evaluate a knowledge base to determine, based at least in part on the request, the plurality of predicted chatbot paths for the user-chatbot interaction.
17. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the cognitive agent utilizes machine learning to predict the plurality of predicted chatbot paths forming the hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction.
18. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the cognitive agent evaluates user communications with the chatbot, and potential chatbot responses, to ascertain predicted chatbot paths with a predicted confidence level above a set confidence threshold to determine the plurality of predicted chatbot paths forming the hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction
19. A computer program product comprising: a computer-readable storage medium readable by one or more processing circuits and storing instructions for execution by the one or more processing circuits for performing a method comprising: receiving a request from a user to the chatbot, the request establishing a user-chatbot interaction; based at least in part on the request, generating a plurality of predicted chatbot paths forming a hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction; providing for display on an electronic device a graphical chatbot interface with, at least in part, the hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction; and receiving, via the electronic device, a selection by the user of one predicted chatbot path of the graphical chatbot interface as part of the user-chatbot interaction, where the providing for display the graphical chatbot interface facilitates the user interaction with the chatbot along the selected predicted chatbot path.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the generating of the plurality of predicted chatbot paths of the hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction comprises using a cognitive agent to evaluate a knowledge base to determine, based at least in part on the request, the plurality of predicted chatbot paths for the user-chatbot interaction, and wherein the cognitive agent evaluates user communications with the chatbot, and potential chatbot responses, to ascertain predicted chatbot paths with a predicted confidence level above a set confidence threshold to determine the plurality of predicted chatbot paths forming the hierarchy of predicted chatbot content for the user-chatbot interaction.
</claims>
</document>
