<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08G1/00,G08G1/01,G08G1/09,G08G1/16,H04W4/38,H04W4/44,H04W4/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAKSHIT, SARBAJIT K.
FOX, JEREMY R.
TRIM, CRAIG M.
Preiss, Tanner Mark
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017746
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cluster-Based Management of Vehicle Power Consumption
</title>

<abstract>
Cluster-based management of vehicle power consumption is provided. Electrical power consumption and processing power consumption of a vehicle is optimized by dynamically determining a cluster of vehicles for the vehicle to join based on input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, communication functions, vehicle driving functions, and interior vehicle functions. In response to the vehicle joining the cluster of vehicles, an appropriate proportion of information the vehicle is to process is determined based on current input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, and communication functions the vehicle is performing and current power consumption levels the vehicle is using, and current input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, and communication functions other vehicles in the cluster of vehicles are performing and current power consumption levels the other vehicles in the cluster are using.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: optimizing electrical power consumption and processing power consumption of a vehicle by dynamically determining a cluster of vehicles for the vehicle to join based on input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, communication functions, vehicle driving functions, and interior vehicle functions; and responsive to the vehicle joining the cluster of vehicles, determining an appropriate proportion of information the vehicle is to process based on current input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, and communication functions the vehicle is performing and current power consumption levels the vehicle is using, and current input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, and communication functions other vehicles in the cluster of vehicles are performing and current power consumption levels the other vehicles in the cluster are using.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving an indication that the vehicle is joining the cluster of vehicles along a same travel route within a defined vehicle cluster length and width, the defined vehicle cluster length and width is based on processing power limitations; determining current electrical power consumption and processing power consumption of the vehicle based on input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, communication functions, vehicle driving functions, and interior vehicle functions the vehicle is currently using; and determining current electrical power consumption and processing power consumption of other vehicles in the cluster of vehicles based on input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, communication functions, vehicle driving functions, and interior vehicle functions the other vehicles are currently using.
3. The method of claim 2 further comprising: sharing captured sensor data of the same travel route by the vehicle with each respective vehicle in the cluster of vehicles; receiving shared sensor data of the same travel route from each respective vehicle in the cluster of vehicles; and performing a comparison of the captured sensor data with the shared sensor data of the same travel route.
4. The method of claim 3 further comprising: identifying sensor data overlap based on the comparison of the captured sensor data and the shared sensor data of the same travel route.
5. The method of claim 4 further comprising: disabling input sensor data capturing functions of one or more vehicles in the cluster of vehicles corresponding to the sensor data overlap to decrease electrical power consumption of the one or more vehicles.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: designating a set of vehicles in the cluster of vehicles to perform a proportional share of sensor data capture and sensor data processing for the cluster based on determined current electrical and processing power the vehicle is using, determined current electrical and processing power the other vehicles in the cluster are using, and specified sensor data capture and processing time slot of each respective vehicle in the cluster.
7. The method of claim 1 further comprising: decreasing electrical and processing power consumption of a set of vehicles in the cluster of vehicles by instructing vehicles in the cluster to reduce vehicle gap and increase proximity of one vehicle with another vehicle in the cluster to decrease a total area of sensor data capture by the set of vehicles.
8. The method of claim 1 further comprising: adjusting position and speed of each respective vehicle in the cluster of vehicles based on consumed electrical and processing power, specified sensor data capture and processing time slot, and travel destination corresponding to each respective vehicle in the cluster.
9. The method of claim 1 further comprising: designating a set of vehicles in the cluster of vehicles to perform a proportional share of sensor data capture and sensor data processing for the cluster based on adjusted position and speed of each respective vehicle in the cluster.
10. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving a request to exit the cluster of vehicles from a particular vehicle in the cluster; validating that sensor data capture of remaining vehicles in the cluster of vehicles can cover a sensor data capture and processing workload shared by the particular vehicle requesting to exit the cluster; and switching the sensor data capture and processing workload shared by the particular vehicle exiting the cluster of vehicles to one or more remaining vehicles in the cluster.
11. A computer system comprising: a bus system; a storage device connected to the bus system, wherein the storage device stores program instructions; and a processor connected to the bus system, wherein the processor executes the program instructions to: optimize electrical power consumption and processing power consumption of a vehicle by dynamically determining a cluster of vehicles for the vehicle to join based on input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, communication functions, vehicle driving functions, and interior vehicle functions; and in response to the vehicle joining the cluster of vehicles, determine an appropriate proportion of information the vehicle is to process based on current input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, and communication functions the vehicle is performing and current power consumption levels the vehicle is using, and current input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, and communication functions other vehicles in the cluster of vehicles are performing and current power consumption levels the other vehicles in the cluster are using.
12. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the processor further executes the program instructions to: receive an indication that the vehicle is joining the cluster of vehicles along a same travel route within a defined vehicle cluster length and width, the defined vehicle cluster length and width is based on processing power limitations; determine current electrical power consumption and processing power consumption of the vehicle based on input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, communication functions, vehicle driving functions, and interior vehicle functions the vehicle is currently using; and determine current electrical power consumption and processing power consumption of other vehicles in the cluster of vehicles based on input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, communication functions, vehicle driving functions, and interior vehicle functions the other vehicles are currently using.
13. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the processor further executes the program instructions to: share captured sensor data of the same travel route by the vehicle with each respective vehicle in the cluster of vehicles; receive shared sensor data of the same travel route from each respective vehicle in the cluster of vehicles; and perform a comparison of the captured sensor data with the shared sensor data of the same travel route.
14. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the processor further executes the program instructions to: identify sensor data overlap based on the comparison of the captured sensor data and the shared sensor data of the same travel route.
15. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform a method comprising: optimizing electrical power consumption and processing power consumption of a vehicle by dynamically determining a cluster of vehicles for the vehicle to join based on input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, communication functions, vehicle driving functions, and interior vehicle functions; and responsive to the vehicle joining the cluster of vehicles, determining an appropriate proportion of information the vehicle is to process based on current input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, and communication functions the vehicle is performing and current power consumption levels the vehicle is using, and current input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, and communication functions other vehicles in the cluster of vehicles are performing and current power consumption levels the other vehicles in the cluster are using.
16. The computer program product of claim 15 further comprising: receiving an indication that the vehicle is joining the cluster of vehicles along a same travel route within a defined vehicle cluster length and width, the defined vehicle cluster length and width is based on processing power limitations; determining current electrical power consumption and processing power consumption of the vehicle based on input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, communication functions, vehicle driving functions, and interior vehicle functions the vehicle is currently using; and determining current electrical power consumption and processing power consumption of other vehicles in the cluster of vehicles based on input sensor data capturing functions, sensor data processing functions, communication functions, vehicle driving functions, and interior vehicle functions the other vehicles are currently using.
17. The computer program product of claim 16 further comprising: sharing captured sensor data of the same travel route by the vehicle with each respective vehicle in the cluster of vehicles; receiving shared sensor data of the same travel route from each respective vehicle in the cluster of vehicles; and performing a comparison of the captured sensor data with the shared sensor data of the same travel route.
18. The computer program product of claim 17 further comprising: identifying sensor data overlap based on the comparison of the captured sensor data and the shared sensor data of the same travel route.
19. The computer program product of claim 18 further comprising: disabling input sensor data capturing functions of one or more vehicles in the cluster of vehicles corresponding to the sensor data overlap to decrease electrical power consumption of the one or more vehicles.
20. The computer program product of claim 15 further comprising: designating a set of vehicles in the cluster of vehicles to perform a proportional share of sensor data capture and sensor data processing for the cluster based on determined current electrical and processing power the vehicle is using, determined current electrical and processing power the other vehicles in the cluster are using, and specified sensor data capture and processing time slot of each respective vehicle in the cluster.
</claims>
</document>
