<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/02,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/06,G06Q50/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALLTHEROOMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DITOMASO, JOSEPH
TAYLOR, LAWSON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70326327
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BOOKED-BLOCKED CLASSIFIER
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are a system and method for determining whether an apparent booking is a genuine booking or is a blocked period of unavailability that is not the result of a genuine booking. Bookings occur in all sorts of industries, such as travel, medical, entertainment, weddings, catering, and the like. In some examples, the method may include receiving content from a website that includes a listing for an object, identifying a period of unavailability of the object based on the content received from the website, predicting, via a machine learning model, whether the period of unavailability of the object is a blocked period that is not a result of a reservation of the object, the predicting being performed based on additional content visible on the website being input into the machine learning model, and storing an identifier of the period of unavailability and information about the prediction within a storage device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising: a network interface configured to receive content from a website that includes a listing for an object; a processor configured to identify a period of unavailability of the object based on the content received from the website, and predict, via a machine learning model, whether the period of unavailability of the object is a blocked period that is not a result of a reservation of the object, where the prediction is performed based on additional content visible on the website being input into the machine learning model; and a storage configured to store an identifier of the period of unavailability and information about the prediction within a storage device.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to train the machine learning model based on previous unavailability data of one or more objects, and value data for a predetermined geographic area associated with the one or more objects.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the object comprises a structure including at least one of a building, a home, a boat, an aircraft, and an automobile.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to predict, via the machine learning model, whether the period of unavailability is a blocked period based on length of time of the period of unavailability and a length of time until the period of unavailability begins.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to predict, via the machine learning model, whether the period of unavailability is a blocked period based on user content read by the processor from the website.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to classify the period of unavailability as either a blocked period or a booked period.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to aggregate the received content with previous content acquired from the website, and identify the period of unavailability based on the aggregation of content.
8. A method comprising: receiving content from a website that includes a listing for an object; identifying a period of unavailability of the object based on the content received from the website; predicting, via a machine learning model, whether the period of unavailability of the object is a blocked period that is not a result of a reservation of the object, the predicting being performed based on additional content visible on the website being input into the machine learning model; and storing an identifier of the period of unavailability and information about the prediction within a storage device.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising training the machine learning model based on previous unavailability data of one or more objects, and value data for a predetermined geographic area associated with the one or more objects.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the object comprises a structure including at least one of a building, a home, a boat, an aircraft, and an automobile.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the predicting comprises predicting, via the machine learning model, whether the period of unavailability is a blocked period based on a length of time included in the period of unavailability and a length of time until the period of unavailability begins.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the predicting comprises classifying the period of unavailability as either a blocked period or a booked period.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the receiving comprises aggregating the received content with previous content acquired from the website, and the identifying comprises identifying the period of unavailability based on the aggregation of content.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions which when executed by a processor cause a computer to perform a method comprising: receiving content from a website that includes a listing for an object; identifying a period of unavailability of the object based on the content received from the website; predicting, via a machine learning model, whether the period of unavailability of the object is a blocked period that is not a result of a reservation of the object, the predicting being performed based on additional content visible on the website being input into the machine learning model; and storing an identifier of the period of unavailability and information about the prediction within a storage device.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises training the machine learning model based on previous unavailability data of one or more objects, and value data for a predetermined geographic area associated with the one or more objects.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the object comprises a structure including at least one of a building, a home, a boat, an aircraft, and an automobile.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the predicting comprises predicting, via the machine learning model, whether the period of unavailability is a blocked period based on a length of time included in the period of unavailability and a length of time until the period of unavailability begins.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the predicting comprises classifying the period of unavailability as either a blocked period or a booked period.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the receiving comprises aggregating the received content with previous content acquired from the website, and the identifying comprises identifying the period of unavailability based on the aggregation of content.
</claims>
</document>
