<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/04,A61B5/0402,A61B5/0456,A61B5/046,A61B5/0464,A61N1/365,A61N1/372,A61N1/375,A61N1/39
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDTRONIC
</assignee>

<inventors>
GREENHUT, SAUL E.
HEMMING, MICHAEL T.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64110187
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
STATE-BASED ATRIAL EVENT DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
An implantable medical device includes a memory storing criteria for transitioning between states of a cardiac cycle model, the states including a P-wave state. The device also includes sensing circuitry that senses a cardiac signal that varies as a function of a cardiac cycle of a patient, and also includes processing circuitry coupled to the sensing circuitry. The processing circuitry is configured to detect an R-wave in the sensed cardiac signal, to determine an elapsed time since the detection of the R-wave, to determine one or more morphological values of a post-R-wave segment of the cardiac signal to compare the elapsed time and the one or more morphological values to the stored criteria for transitioning between the plurality of states of the cardiac cycle model, and to detect a P-wave in the sensed cardiac signal in response to a transition to the P-wave state of the cardiac cycle model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A medical device comprising: a memory configured to store criteria for transitioning between a plurality of states of a cardiac cycle model, the plurality of states including a second wave state; sensing circuitry configured to sense a cardiac signal that varies as a function of a cardiac cycle of a patient; and processing circuitry configured to: detect a first wave in the sensed cardiac signal; determine an elapsed time since the detection of the first wave; determine one or more morphological values of a post-first wave segment of the cardiac signal occurring after the detection of the first wave; compare the elapsed time and the one or more morphological values to the stored criteria for transitioning between the plurality of states of the cardiac cycle model; determine whether a second wave is detected in the sensed cardiac signal based on whether a transition to the second wave state of the cardiac cycle model occurred; and provide an indication based on whether the second wave is detected, wherein a therapy is delivered to the patient based on the indication.
22. The medical device of claim 21, wherein the first wave comprises an R-wave, the second wave comprises a P-wave, and the second wave state comprises a P-wave state.
23. The medical device of claim 22, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to detect the P-wave based on occurrence of a transition to the P-wave state of the cardiac cycle model, wherein the medical device further comprises communication circuitry configured to send a signal to another medical device configured to deliver a cardiac pacing pulse to the patient, wherein the signal is configured to trigger the other medical device to deliver the cardiac pacing pulse at a predetermined time after the detection of the P-wave, and wherein, to provide the indication based on whether the second wave is detected, the processing circuitry is configured to control the communication circuitry to send the signal to the other medical device in response to detecting the P-wave.
24. The medical device of claim 22, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to detect the P-wave based on occurrence of a transition to the P-wave state of the cardiac cycle model, wherein the medical device further comprises therapy generation circuitry configured to deliver a cardiac pacing pulse, and wherein, to provide the indication based on whether the second wave is detected, the processing circuitry is configured to control the therapy generation circuitry to deliver the cardiac pacing pulse in response to detecting the P-wave.
25. The medical device of claim 21, wherein the criteria comprise probability functions, each of the probability functions determining a probability of a respective state transition as a function of the elapsed time and at least one of the one or more morphological values, and wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine that the respective state transition has occurred in response to the probability meeting a threshold.
26. The medical device of claim 21, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to apply one or more time-frequency transformations to the post-first wave segment of the cardiac signal, and determine the one or more morphological values based on the application of the one or more time-frequency transformations to the post-first wave segment of the cardiac signal.
27. The medical device of claim 21, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to: determine a plurality of morphological values of the post-first wave segment; form multiple value profiles of the plurality of morphological values of the post-first wave segment, wherein each respective value profile corresponds to a respective state of the plurality of states of the cardiac cycle model; and compare each value profile of the post-first wave segment to a respective corresponding value profile of the stored criteria.
28. The medical device of claim 21, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine one or more wavelet coefficients associated with the cardiac signal sensed by the sensing circuitry as the one or more morphological values.
29. The medical device of claim 21, wherein the sensing circuitry is further configured to sense a respiratory signal that varies as a function of a respiratory cycle of a patient, and wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to update the criteria stored in the memory based on one or more characteristics of the sensed respiratory signal.
30. The medical device of claim 29, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to modulate a temporal component of the criteria based on one or more characteristics of the sensed respiratory signal.
31. The medical device of claim 21, further comprising a housing configured for implantation within patient, wherein the memory and the processing circuitry are located within the housing.
32. A method comprising: storing criteria for transitioning between a plurality of states of a cardiac cycle model, the plurality of states including a second wave state; sensing a cardiac signal that varies as a function of a cardiac cycle of a patient; detecting a first wave in the sensed cardiac signal; determining an elapsed time since the detection of the first wave; determining one or more morphological values of a post-first wave segment of the cardiac signal occurring after the detection of the first wave; comparing the elapsed time and the one or more morphological values to the stored criteria for transitioning between the plurality of states of the cardiac cycle model; determining whether a second wave is detected in the sensed cardiac signal based on whether a transition to the second wave state of the cardiac cycle model occurred; and providing an indication based on whether the second wave is detected, wherein a therapy is delivered to the patient based on the indication..
33. The method of claim 32, wherein the first wave comprises an R-wave, the second wave comprises a P-wave, and the second wave state comprises a P-wave state.
34. The method of claim 33, further comprising detecting the P-wave based on occurrence of a transition to the P-wave state of the cardiac cycle model, wherein providing the indication comprises, in response to detecting the P-wave, sending a signal to another medical device configured to deliver a cardiac pacing pulse to the patient, wherein the signal is configured to trigger the other medical device to deliver the cardiac pacing pulse at a predetermined time after the detection of the P-wave.
35. The method of claim 33, further comprising detecting the P-wave based on occurrence of a transition to the P-wave state of the cardiac cycle model, wherein providing the indication comprises, controlling delivery of a cardiac pacing pulse in response to detecting the P-wave.
36. The method of claim 32, wherein the criteria comprise probability functions, each of the probability functions determining a probability of a respective state transition as a function of the elapsed time and at least one of the one or more morphological values, the method further comprising determining that the respective state transition has occurred in response to the probability meeting a threshold.
37. The method of claim 32, further comprising: applying one or more time-frequency transformations to the post-first wave segment of the cardiac signal; and determining the one or more morphological values based on the application of the one or more time-frequency transformations to the post-first wave segment of the cardiac signal.
38. The method of claim 32, further comprising: determining a plurality of morphological values of the post-first wave segment; forming multiple value profiles of the plurality of morphological values of the post-first wave segment, wherein each respective value profile corresponds to a respective state of the plurality of states of the cardiac cycle model; and comparing each value profile of the post-first wave segment to a respective corresponding value profile of the stored criteria.
39. The method of claim 32, further comprising determining one or more wavelet coefficients associated with the cardiac signal sensed by the sensing circuitry as the one or more morphological values.
40. The method of claim 32, further comprising: sensing a respiratory signal that varies as a function of a respiratory cycle of a patient; and updating the stored criteria based on one or more characteristics of the sensed respiratory signal.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein updating the stored criteria comprises modulating a temporal component of the criteria based on one or more characteristics of the sensed respiratory signal.
42. A medical device comprising: a memory configured to store criteria for transitioning between a plurality of states of a cardiac cycle model, the plurality of states including a second wave state; sensing circuitry configured to sense a cardiac signal that varies as a function of a cardiac cycle of a patient; and processing circuitry configured to: detect a first wave in the sensed cardiac signal; determine an elapsed time since the detection of the first wave; determine one or more morphological values of a post-first wave segment of the cardiac signal occurring after the detection of the first wave; compare the elapsed time and the one or more morphological values to the stored criteria for transitioning between the plurality of states of the cardiac cycle model; and determine whether a second wave is detected in the sensed cardiac signal based on whether a transition to the second wave state of the cardiac cycle model occurred.
43. The medical device of claim 42, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to control operation of at least one of the medical device or another medical device based on the determination of whether the second wave is detected.
</claims>
</document>
