<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9536,G06N20/00,G10L15/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BENDER, MICHAEL
BHOGAL, KULVIR S.
FOX, JEREMY R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71404506
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ANALYZING DATA TO PROVIDE ALERTS TO CONVERSATION PARTICIPANTS
</title>

<abstract>
A computer implemented method of controlling the incidence of spoilers in a conversation that includes calculating a baseline of events of interest for participants to a conversation, the calculating of the baseline including machine learning applied to interest indicators for the participants, the interest indicators being derived from data collected from social media accounts of the participants and calendars of the participants in response the participant granting permission for the data collection. The method further includes monitoring of real time conversation between the parties for keywords indicative of a topic of the real time conversation, wherein a spoiler message is predicted when the keywords substantially match the baseline for the events of interest. The method may further include sending an anti-spoiler signal to the participants of the conversation when the keywords substantially match the baseline for the events of interest.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method of analyzing communications for a group of user to detect spoilers in the group communications, comprising: calculating a baseline of events of interest for participants to a conversation, the calculating of the baseline including machine learning applied to interest indicators for the participants, the interest indicators being derived from data collected from social media accounts of the participants and calendars of the participants in response the participant granting permission for the data collection; monitoring of real time conversation between the parties for keywords indicative of a topic of the real time conversation, wherein a spoiler message is predicted when the keywords substantially match the baseline for the events of interest; and sending an anti-spoiler signal to the participants of the conversation when the keywords substantially match the baseline for the events of interest.
2. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the calculating of the baseline further includes natural language processing of a training period of the conversation between the parties.
3. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising receiving permission from a participant to register the participant with a conversation spoiler control system, wherein said registering includes linking social media accounts and personal calendars of said participants to the conversation spoiler control system.
4. The computer implemented method of claim 3, wherein said calculating the baseline of events of interest for the participants to the conversation by machine learning applied to interest indicators for the participants is performed by a cognitive computing engine of the conversation spoiler control system.
5. The computer implemented method of claim 4, wherein the calculating of baseline of events of interest for the participants comprises selecting said events of interest by similarity to historical events on said calendar.
6. The computer implemented method of claim 5, wherein the calculating of the baseline of events of interest for the participants comprises selecting events of interest by similarity to events identified on participants social media pages.
7. The computer implemented of claim 6, wherein the social media accounts are internet based tools for sharing information about the participants.
8. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the monitoring of the real time conversation between the parties for the keywords indicative of the topic of the real time conversation comprises natural language processing (NLP).
9. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the sending of the anti-spoiler signal to the participants of the conversation comprises sending the anti-spoiler signal to a participant that is transmitting a portion of the conversation including the keywords indicative of a spoiler.
10. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein said anti-spoiler signal comprises an audible tone transmitted by a communications device of the participant that is transmitting the portion of the conversation including said keywords that substantially match the baseline for the events of interest.
11. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein said anti-spoiler signal comprises an an activation of a haptic feedback device on the participant that is transmitting the portion of the conversation including said keywords that substantially match the baseline for the events of interest.
12. The computer implemented method of claim 11, wherein the user haptic feedback device asserts a signal by physical interaction with the user by an electric motor, an electro-magnetic actuator, a linear resonant actuator, a piezoelectric actuator, a shape memory alloy, an electro-active polymer, a solenoid, an eccentric rotating mass motor ("ERM"), a linear resonant actuator ("LRA"), a high bandwidth actuator, an electroactive polymer ("EAP") actuator, an electrostatic friction display, an ultrasonic vibration generator, an electrostatic friction ("ESF") device, and ultrasonic surface friction ("USF") or a combination thereof.
13. The computer implemented method of claim 11, wherein the signal is discontinued when all participants have attended the event for which the anti-spoiler signal is sent.
14. The computer implemented method of claim 13, wherein the calendar of the participants indicates all participants have attended the event.
15. The computer implemented method of claim 13, wherein a global positioning system (GPS) tracks the participants to determine that said all participants have attended the event.
16. A system for controlling the incidence of spoilers in conversation comprising: a registry including participants of a conversation, the registry including interest indicators selected from the group consisting of a listing of social media accounts for each of the participants, a calendar for each of the participants and a combination thereof; a generator of events of interest list including terms that are captured from at least one of training conversation of the participants registered with the registry or captured by analyzing interest indicators registered with the registry; a conversation monitor for spoiler topics that uses natural language processing (NLP) to discern the spoiler topics from a real time conversation between the participants; and a signal generator to send a signal to at least one of the participants that spoiler topics from the conversation substantially match values in the events of interest list.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the generator of events of interest list comprises: an input for receiving audio content of the training conversation in real time; a natural language processing engine to analyze terms from the training conversation to provide the avoidance topics; a social media input for receiving data from the social media accounts; a calendar input for receiving data from the calendar; and a cognitive computing engine for generating the events of interest list with topic terms from the calendar, topic terms from the social media accounts, and topic terms provided by the natural language processing engine analysis of the training conversation.
18. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therein for controlling the incidence of spoilers in a conversation, the method comprising: calculating a baseline of events of interest for participants to a conversation, the calculating of the baseline including machine learning applied to interest indicators for the participants, the interest indicators being derived from data collected from social media accounts of the participants and calendars of the participants in response the participant granting permission for the data collection; monitoring of real time conversation between the parties for keywords indicative of a topic of the real time conversation, wherein a spoiler message is predicted when the keywords substantially match the baseline for the events of interest; and sending an anti-spoiler signal to the participants of the conversation when the keywords substantially match the baseline for the events of interest.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, further comprising receiving permission from a participant to register the participant with a conversation spoiler control system, wherein said registering includes linking social media accounts and personal calendars of said participants to the conversation spoiler control system.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein said calculating the baseline of events of interest for the participants to the conversation by machine learning applied to interest indicators for the participants is performed by a cognitive computing engine of the conversation spoiler control system.
</claims>
</document>
