<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0205,G06F3/01,G09B5/02,G16H10/60,G16H20/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
XR HEALTH IL
</assignee>

<inventors>
ORR, ERAN
WEISSBERGER, OMER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65362867
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BIOFEEDBACK FOR THERAPY IN VIRTUAL AND AUGMENTED REALITY
</title>

<abstract>
Adjustment of training protocols in virtual reality (VR) or augmented reality (AR) environments based on biofeedback are provided. In various embodiments, motion data is collected for a user while the user performs a training protocol in a virtual environment. A biometric measurement is collected for the user while the user performs the training protocol. The motion data and the biometric measurement are provided to a learning system at a remote server. The learning system determines an adjustment to the training protocol based on the motion data and the biometric measurement. The adjustment is provided by the learning system and is applied to the training protocol. In various embodiments, the adjustment, the motion data, and/or the biometric measurement may be logged in an electronic health record.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: providing a virtual environment to a user; collecting motion data for the user while the user performs a training protocol; collecting a biometric measurement for the user while the user performs the training protocol; providing the motion data and the biometric measurement to a learning system at a remote server; determining an adjustment at the remote server based on the motion data and the biometric measurement; applying the adjustment to the training protocol, the adjustment being provided by the learning system.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the biometric measurement is selected from the group comprising: heart rate, blood pressure, breathing rate, electrical activity of the muscles, electrical activity of the brain, pupil dilation, and perspiration.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving the training protocol from a healthcare record server.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the healthcare record server comprises a database for storing electronic health records.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the training protocol comprises accessing an electronic health record of the user in the database to retrieve one or more parameters related to the training protocol.
6. (canceled)
7. (canceled)
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining whether the biometric measurement is above a threshold; when the biometric measurement is above the threshold, determining an additional adjustment to the training protocol; and applying the additional adjustment until the biometric measurement is below the threshold.
9. (canceled)
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising: determining whether the biometric measurement is below a bottom threshold, when the biometric measurement is below the bottom threshold, determining an additional adjustment to the training protocol; and applying the additional adjustment until the biometric measurement is above the bottom threshold.
11. (canceled)
12. A system comprising: a virtual or augmented reality display adapted to display a virtual environment to a user; a biometric sensor coupled to the user; a computing node comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor of the computing node to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: providing the virtual environment to the user; collecting motion data from the virtual reality display for the user while the user performs a training protocol; collecting a biometric measurement from the biometric sensor for the user while the user performs the training protocol; providing the motion data and the biometric measurement to a learning system at a remote server; determining an adjustment at the remote server based on the motion data and the biometric measurement; applying the adjustment to the training protocol, the adjustments being provided by the learning system.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the biometric measurement is selected from the group comprising: heart rate, blood pressure, breathing rate, electrical activity of the muscles, electrical activity of the brain, pupil dilation, and perspiration.
14. The system of claim 12, further comprising receiving the training protocol from a healthcare record server comprising a database for storing electronic health records.
15. (canceled)
16. The system of claim 12, wherein receiving the training protocol comprises accessing an electronic health record of the user in the database to retrieve one or more parameters related to the training protocol.
17. (canceled)
18. (canceled)
19. The system of claim 12, further comprising: determining whether the biometric measurement is above a threshold; when the biometric measurement is above the threshold, determining an additional adjustment to the training protocol; and applying the additional adjustment until the biometric measurement is below the threshold.
20. (canceled)
21. The system of claim 19, further comprising: determining whether the biometric measurement is below a bottom threshold; when the biometric measurement is below the bottom threshold, determining an additional adjustment to the training protocol; and applying the additional adjustment until the biometric measurement is above the bottom threshold.
22. (canceled)
23. A computer program product for adjusting training protocols based on biofeedback, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: providing a virtual environment to a user; collecting motion data for the user while the user performs a training protocol; collecting a biometric measurement for the user while the user performs the training protocol; providing the motion data and the biometric measurement to a learning system at a remote server; determining an adjustment at the remote server based on the motion data and the biometric measurement; applying the adjustment to the training protocol, the adjustment being provided by the learning system.
24. The computer program product of claim 23, wherein the biometric measurement is selected from the group comprising: heart rate, blood pressure, breathing rate, electrical activity of the muscles, electrical activity of the brain, pupil dilation, and perspiration.
25. The computer program product of claim 23, further comprising receiving the training protocol from a healthcare record server.
26. The computer program product of claim 25, wherein the healthcare record server comprises a database for storing electronic health records.
27. The computer program product of claim 23, wherein receiving the training protocol comprises accessing an electronic health record of the user in the database to retrieve one or more parameters related to the training protocol.
28. (canceled)
29. (canceled)
30. The computer program product of claim 23, further comprising: determining whether the biometric measurement is above a threshold; when the biometric measurement is above the threshold, determining an additional adjustment to the training protocol; and applying the additional adjustment until the biometric measurement is below the threshold.
31. (canceled)
32. The computer program product of claim 23, further comprising: determining whether the biometric measurement is below a bottom threshold; when the biometric measurement is below the bottom threshold, determining an applying the additional adjustment until the biometric measurement is above the bottom threshold.
33. 33-68. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
