<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/143,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INNsight.com, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Patel, Rajesh B.
Patel, Roshan B.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72832495
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER IMPLEMENTED ACCESSIBILITY SYSTEMS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
One or more computer programs can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of including instructions that, when executed by data processing apparatus, cause the apparatus to perform the actions. One general aspect includes a method for modifying a display, the method including: receiving, by a host server, a request for an accessibility component from a web page server. The method also includes receiving, by the host server, a web page component, from the web page server. The method also includes transmitting, by the host server, the accessibility component to the web page server. The method also includes where the accessibility component is configured to modify a web page content based on user input received at the host computer. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding computer systems, apparatus, and computer programs recorded on one or more computer storage devices, each configured to perform the actions of the methods.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for modifying a display, the method comprising: receiving, by a host server, a request for an accessibility component from a web page server; receiving, by the host server, a web page component, from the web page server; transmitting, by the host server, the accessibility component to the web page server; and wherein the accessibility component is configured to modify a web page content based on user input received at the host server.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the accessibility component comprises a plurality of modules that each provide different functionality; and further comprising transmitting, by a usage tracker, details regarding a first frequency use data of each of the plurality of modules.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising transmitting, by the host server, a content management component that is configured to display the details regarding the first frequency use data of each of the plurality of modules.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising optimizing of a functionality of the plurality of modules based on the details regarding the first frequency use data of each of the plurality of modules.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the optimizing further comprises analyzing the first frequency use data to identify a first module that was least activated out of the plurality of modules, moving the first module from a primary screen display to a secondary screen display that is selectable by a user; wherein the optimizing further comprises analyzing a second frequency use data that is gathered subsequent in time relative to the first frequency use data; and wherein analyzing the second frequency use data comprises identifying a second module that was least activated out of the plurality of modules that were displayed on the primary screen display, moving the second module from the primary screen display to a secondary screen display that is selectable by the user.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: transmitting, by a usage tracker, details regarding a frequency of use of each of the plurality of modules; and updating, by the host server, the accessibility component and transmitting an updated accessibility component to the web page server based on details regarding the frequency of use of each of the plurality of modules.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising receiving from a usage tracker a first frequency use data for each of the plurality of modules; further comprising optimizing a functionality of the accessibility component by analyzing a first frequency data to identify a first module that was least activated out of the plurality of modules, moving the first module from a primary screen display to a secondary screen display that is selectable by the user; wherein the optimizing further comprises analyzing a second frequency data that is gathered subsequent in time relative to the first frequency data; and wherein analyzing the second frequency data comprises identifying a second module that was least activated out of the plurality of modules that were displayed on the primary screen display.
8. An electronic device comprising: a host server configured to receive a request for an accessibility component from a web page server; the host server configured to receive a web page component, from the web page server; the host server configured to transmit the accessibility component to the web page server; and wherein the accessibility component is configured to modify a web page content based on user input received at the host server.
9. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the accessibility component comprises a plurality of modules that each provide different functionality.
10. The electronic device of claim 9, wherein the host server is configured to transmit a content manager component that is configured to display a details regarding a first frequency use data of each of the plurality of modules.
11. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the host server is configured to optimize the functionality of the plurality of modules based on the details regarding the first frequency use data of each of the plurality of modules.
12. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the host server is configured to analyze the first frequency use data to identify a first module that was least activated out of the plurality of modules, the host server is configured to move the first module from a primary screen display to a secondary screen display that is selectable by a user; further comprising a secondary use data that is gathered subsequent in time relative to the first frequency use data; and wherein the host server is configured to analyze a second frequency use data to identify a second module that was least activated out of the plurality of modules that were displayed on the primary screen display, the host server configured to move the second module from the primary screen display to a secondary screen display that is selectable by the user.
13. The electronic device of claim 12, further comprising: a usage tracker configured to transmit details regarding a frequency of use of each of the plurality of modules; and the host server configured to update the accessibility component and transmit an updated accessibility component to the web page server based on details regarding the frequency of use of each of the plurality of modules.
14. The electronic device of claim 13, further comprising a usage tracker that is configured to receive a first frequency use data for each of the plurality of modules; wherein the host server is configured to optimize the functionality of the accessibility component by analyzing a first frequency data to identify a first module that was least activated out of the plurality of modules, the host server configured to move the first module from a primary screen display to a secondary screen display that is selectable by the user; and wherein the host server is configured to analyze a second frequency data that is gathered subsequent in time relative to the first frequency data to identify a second module that was least activated out of the plurality of modules that were displayed on the primary screen display.
15. An electronic device, comprising: a means for generating an accessibility component for a web page server; and wherein the accessibility component comprises a plurality of modules that each provide different functionality.
16. The electronic device of claim 15, wherein the accessibility component further comprises a content manager component that is configured to display a details regarding a first frequency use data of each of the plurality of modules.
17. The electronic device of claim 16, wherein the content manager component is configured to optimize the functionality of the plurality of modules based on the details regarding the first frequency use data of each of the plurality of modules.
18. The electronic device of claim 17, wherein the content manager component is configured to analyze the first frequency use data to identify a first module that was least activated out of the plurality of modules, the content manager component is configured to move the first module from a primary screen display to a secondary screen display that is selectable by a user; further comprising a secondary use data that is gathered subsequent in time relative to the first frequency use data; and wherein the content manager component is configured to analyze a second frequency use data to identify a second module that was least activated out of the plurality of modules that were displayed on the primary screen display, the content manager component configured to move the second module from the primary screen display to a secondary screen display that is selectable by the user.
19. The electronic device of claim 15, wherein the accessibility component further comprises: a usage tracker configured to transmit details regarding a frequency of use of each of the plurality of modules; a means to update the accessibility component based on details regarding the frequency of use of each of the plurality of modules.
20. The electronic device of claim 15, wherein the accessibility component further comprises: a usage tracker that is configured to receive a first frequency use data for each of the plurality of modules; the accessibility component further comprises a content manager component configured to optimize the functionality of the accessibility component by analyzing the first frequency data to identify a first module that was least activated out of the plurality of modules, the content manager component configured to move the first module from a primary screen display to a secondary screen display that is selectable by the user; and wherein the content manager component is configured to analyze a second frequency data that is gathered subsequent in time relative to the first frequency data to identify a second module that was least activated out of the plurality of modules that were displayed on the primary screen display.
</claims>
</document>
