<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B62D15/02,G05D1/00,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TUSIMPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU, LIU
ZHAO, YUFEI
LIN, WUTU
SUN, XING
MA, KAI-CHIEH
XUAN, ZIJIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65518612
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA-DRIVEN PREDICTION-BASED SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR TRAJECTORY PLANNING OF AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES
</title>

<abstract>
A data-driven prediction-based system and method for trajectory planning of autonomous vehicles are disclosed. A particular embodiment includes: generating a first suggested trajectory for an autonomous vehicle; generating predicted resulting trajectories of proximate agents using a prediction module; scoring the first suggested trajectory based on the predicted resulting trajectories of the proximate agents; generating a second suggested trajectory for the autonomous vehicle and generating corresponding predicted resulting trajectories of proximate agents, if the score of the first suggested trajectory is below a minimum acceptable threshold; and outputting a suggested trajectory for the autonomous vehicle wherein the score corresponding to the suggested trajectory is at or above the minimum acceptable threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a data processor; and a trajectory planning module, executable by the data processor, configured to: generate a first suggested trajectory for an autonomous vehicle, the first suggested trajectory configured to comply with pre-defined goals for the autonomous vehicle; generate a first distribution of predicted resulting trajectories for each of proximate agents using a prediction module, the first distributions of predicted resulting trajectories being reactions to the first suggested trajectory of the autonomous vehicle, wherein the proximate agents are vehicles in the vicinity of the autonomous vehicle; score the first suggested trajectory based on the reactions of the proximate agents to the first suggested trajectory of the autonomous vehicle, the score corresponding to a level to which the first suggested trajectory complies with the pre-defined goals of the autonomous vehicle; generate a second suggested trajectory for the autonomous vehicle if the score for the first suggested trajectory is below a minimum acceptable threshold; and cause a vehicle control subsystem of the autonomous vehicle to manipulate the autonomous vehicle to follow a suggested trajectory, if the score for the suggested trajectory is at or above the minimum acceptable threshold.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the first distribution of predicted resulting trajectories is generated to predict behaviors and trajectories of proximate vehicles.
3. The system of claim 2 wherein the prediction module is trained with machine learning using a human driving behavior data.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein the first distributions of predicted resulting trajectories are based on an input object data corresponding to the proximate agents and the first suggested trajectory, wherein the predicted resulting trajectories of each of the first distributions has an associated confidence level.
5. The system of claim 4 wherein the trajectory planning module is configured to generate a second distribution of predicted resulting trajectories for each of the proximate agents using the prediction module, if the score for the first suggested trajectory is below the minimum acceptable threshold, wherein the second distributions of predicted resulting trajectories are based on the input object data corresponding to the proximate agents and the second suggested trajectory, wherein the predicted resulting trajectories of each of the second distributions has an associated confidence level.
6. The system of claim 5 wherein the trajectory planning module is configured to repeatedly generate distributions of predicted resulting trajectories and associated confidence levels, until the score corresponding to the suggested trajectory is at or above the minimum acceptable threshold or until a time period or iteration count is exceeded.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein the trajectory planning module is configured to output a suggested trajectory for the autonomous vehicle when the score corresponding to the suggested trajectory is at or above the minimum acceptable threshold.
8. The system of claim 1 wherein the trajectory planning module is configured to output a suggested trajectory for the autonomous vehicle according to the predicted resulting trajectories of the proximate agents.
9. The system of claim 1 wherein the trajectory planning module and the prediction module form a feedback loop.
10. A method comprising: generating, by use of a data processor, a first suggested trajectory for an autonomous vehicle, the first suggested trajectory configured to comply with pre-defined goals for the autonomous vehicle; generating, by use of the data processor, a first distribution of predicted resulting trajectories for each of proximate agents using a prediction module, the first distributions of predicted resulting trajectories being reactions to the first suggested trajectory of the autonomous vehicle, wherein the proximate agents are vehicles in the vicinity of the autonomous vehicle; scoring, by use of the data processor, the first suggested trajectory based on the reactions of the proximate agents to the first suggested trajectory of the autonomous vehicle, a score corresponding to a level to which the first suggested trajectory complies with the pre-defined goals of the autonomous vehicle; generating, by use of the data processor, a second suggested trajectory for the autonomous vehicle if the score for the first suggested trajectory is below a minimum acceptable threshold; and causing a vehicle control subsystem of the autonomous vehicle to manipulate the autonomous vehicle to follow a suggested trajectory, if the score for the suggested trajectory is at or above the minimum acceptable threshold.
11. The method of claim 10 comprising creating trajectories for training the prediction module based on an input of a human driving behavior data.
12. The method of claim 10 comprising causing the prediction module to retain information corresponding to predicted trajectories of proximate agents as polynomial expression or data representations.
13. The method of claim 10 comprising training the prediction module with machine learning using a real-world data corresponding to human driving behaviors.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein a loss function is used to examine and correct results of the training.
15. A non-transitory machine-useable storage medium embodying instructions which, when executed by a data processor, cause the data processor to: generate a first suggested trajectory for an autonomous vehicle, the first suggested trajectory configured to comply with pre-defined goals for the autonomous vehicle; generate a first distribution of predicted resulting trajectories for each of proximate agents using a prediction module, the first distributions of predicted resulting trajectories being reactions to the first suggested trajectory of the autonomous vehicle, wherein the proximate agents are vehicles in the vicinity of the autonomous vehicle; score the first suggested trajectory based on the reactions of the proximate agents to the first suggested trajectory of the autonomous vehicle, the score corresponding to a level to which the first suggested trajectory complies with the pre-defined goals of the autonomous vehicle; generate a second suggested trajectory for the autonomous vehicle if the score for the first suggested trajectory is below a minimum acceptable threshold; and cause a vehicle control subsystem of the autonomous vehicle to manipulate the autonomous vehicle to follow a suggested trajectory, if the score for the suggested trajectory is at or above the minimum acceptable threshold.
16. The non-transitory machine-useable storage medium of claim 15 wherein the instructions are further configured to use one or more vehicle sensor subsystems to generate input object data related to objects detected in proximity to the autonomous vehicle, the input object data comprising speed and trajectory data corresponding to the proximate agents, wherein the proximate agents are detectable by the vehicle sensor subsystems.
17. The non-transitory machine-useable storage medium of claim 16 wherein each of the vehicle sensor subsystems comprises at least one of an inertial measurement unit (IMU), a Global Positioning System (GPS) transceiver, a radar, a laser range finder, and one or more cameras.
18. The non-transitory machine-useable storage medium of claim 16 wherein each of the vehicle sensor subsystems comprises at least one of an O2 monitor, a fuel gauge, and an engine oil temperature.
19. The non-transitory machine-useable storage medium of claim 16 wherein each of the vehicle sensor subsystems comprises a plurality of sensors, wherein the plurality of sensors are actuated separately or collectively.
20. The non-transitory machine-useable storage medium of claim 15 wherein the minimum acceptable threshold is a pre-defined score with factors, wherein the factors comprise a turning rate, an acceleration, a stopping rate, and a speed, of the autonomous vehicle, wherein the factors further comprise a spacing between the autonomous vehicle and other vehicles.
</claims>
</document>
