<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S5/02,G01S5/04,G06K7/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AUTOMATON
</assignee>

<inventors>
HEWETT, SPENCER
BLAIR, ADAM
ADLIN, TAMARA
MURPHY, MICHAEL
SEIFF, KEN
WIEMAN, MARK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63676815
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR LOCATING RFID TAGS
</title>

<abstract>
A radio frequency identification (RFID) system includes an array of antennas to distinguish line-of-sight (LOS) paths from non-line-of-sight (NLOS) paths. The distance between adjacent antennas in the array of antennas is less than half the wavelength of the radio frequency (RF) signal of the system. Each antenna in the antenna array is also digitally controlled to change relative phase difference among the antennas, thereby allowing digital steering of the array of antennas across angles of arrival (AOAs) between 0 and π. The digital steering generates a plot of signal amplitudes as a function of AOAs. LOS paths are distinguished from NLOS paths based on the shapes (e.g., depth, gradient, etc.) of local extremes (e.g., maxima or minima) in the plot.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of monitoring at least one radio-frequency identification (RFID) tag, the method comprising: receiving, with at least one antenna, a plurality of RFID signals from the at least one RFID tag over a period of time; estimating a plurality of possible trajectories of the at least one RFID tag over the period of time based on the plurality of RFID signals; and identifying a first trajectory in the plurality of possible trajectories as corresponding to a line-of-sight (LOS) path between the at least one antenna and the at least one RFID tag.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the plurality of RFID signals from the at least one RFID tag occurs at a rate of at least about 0.1 Hz.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a second trajectory in the plurality of possible trajectories as corresponding to a non-line-of-sight (NLOS) path between the at least one antenna and the at least one RFID tag.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein identifying the second trajectory comprises identifying a discontinuity in the second trajectory.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the RFID tag is on an item for sale in a store, and further comprising: determining that a customer is carrying the item for sale toward an exit of the store based on the first trajectory; and triggering a sale of the item at a point in time based on the first trajectory.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: triggering restocking of the item for sale in response to the sale of the item.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: acquiring, with a camera, image data of an area containing the trajectory of the RFID tag; identifying a person moving through the area containing the trajectory of the RFID tag; and correlating motion of the person moving through the area with the trajectory of the RFID tag.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, based on the plurality of RFID signals and the first trajectory, a stationary RFID tag; designating the stationary RFID tag as a virtual reference tag; and calibrating the at least one RFID tag using the virtual reference tag.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: displaying, on a graphical user interface of a mobile device, the first trajectory of the at least one RFID tag in real time.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: alerting, via a mobile device, a user to arrival of the at least one RFID tag at a desired location based on the first trajectory of the at least one RFID tag.
11. A method of training an artificial neural network, the method comprising: determining a trajectory of a radio-frequency identification (RFID) tag attached to an object based on RFID signals from the RFID tag; determining a trajectory of a pixel blob in video imagery of the object; matching the trajectory of the pixel blob to the trajectory of the RFID tag; and training the artificial neural network to recognize the pixel blob as the object.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein training the artificial neural network comprises: training the neural network to recognize at least one of a light fixture, door, or shopping cart; and removing the at least one of a light fixture, door, or shopping cart from a training set used to train the artificial neural network.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein training the artificial neural network further comprises: marking a frame in the training set containing the at least one of a light fixture, door, or shopping cart as an occluded frame.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the object is one of a nametag, wristband, or ID card and the pixel blob represents a person associated with the nametag, wristband, or ID card.
15. A method comprising: sensing motion of a radio-frequency identification (RFID) tag based on RFID signals from the RFID tag; acquiring images of a person carrying the RFID tag; recognizing the person in the images with an artificial neural network; and correlating the motion of the RFID tag with motion of the person in the images.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: triggering sale of an item attached to the RFID tag based on correlation of the motion of the RFID tag with motion of the person in the images.
17. A system comprising: a radio-frequency identification (RFID) tag reader to measure a trajectory of an RFID tag; a camera, collocated with the RFID tag reader, to detect a person moving along the trajectory of the RFID tag; and a processor, operably coupled to the RFID tag reader and the camera, to trigger an automatic purchase of an item attached to the RFID tag by the person based on the motion of the person along the trajectory of the RFID tag.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the processor is further configured to trigger restocking of the item attached to the RFID tag.
19. A method comprising: acquiring, at a first time, a first image of a person in a store; acquiring, at a second time after the first time, a second image of the person in the store; determining, based on the first image, that the person is at a first location in the store at the first time; determining, based on the second image, that the person is at a second location in the store at the second time, the second location being more than 1 meter from the first location; determining, with a radio-frequency identification (RFID) tag reader, that an RFID tag is at the first position at the first time and at the second position at the second time; and determining that the person is carrying the RFID tag based on the person and the RFID tag being at the first position at the first time and the second position at the second time.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: determining, with the RFID tag reader, that the RFID tag has not moved for a period of time; and determining that the person is no longer carrying the RFID tag based on the RFID tag not moving for the period time.
</claims>
</document>
