<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B11/00,H04R3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
GWALANI, SUMIT
MADAN, ARJITA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62916749
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Audio Based Service Set Identifier
</title>

<abstract>
A first computing device is configured to broadcast a first audio token comprising a first identifier over a first audio frequency channel, activate a first microphone component, and receive a first audio response token generated by a second computing device via the first audio frequency channel. A second computing device is configured to receive an input indicating a request to receive data, activate the second microphone component, receive the first audio token over the first audio frequency channel, receive one or more other audio tokens over one or more other audio frequency channels, determine that the received first audio token comprises a valid audio token, restrict the range of received audio inputs to comprise only the first audio frequency channel, generate the first audio response token, and communicate the first audio response token to the first computing device via the first audio frequency channel.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system to establish an audio communication channel between a broadcasting computing device and a user computing device, comprising: a first computing device comprising: a first microphone component; a first storage device; and a first processor communicatively coupled to the first storage device, wherein the first processor executes application code instructions that are stored in the first storage device to cause the first computing device to: broadcast a first audio token comprising a first user computing device identifier over a first audio frequency channel; activate the first microphone component to listen for audio inputs over the first audio frequency channel; receive a first audio response token generated by a second computing device via the first audio frequency channel; the second computing device comprising: a second microphone component; a second storage device; and a second processor communicatively coupled to the second storage device, wherein the second processor executes application code instructions that are stored in the second storage device to cause the second computing device to: receive an input indicating a request to receive data; activate the second microphone component to receive audio inputs via two or more audio frequency channels comprising at least the first audio frequency channel; receive the first audio token from the first computing device via the activated second microphone component over the first audio frequency channel; receive one or more other audio tokens via the activated second microphone component over one or more other audio frequency channels not comprising the first audio frequency channel; determine that the received first audio token comprises a valid audio token; in response to determining that the received first audio token is a valid audio token, restrict the range of received audio inputs to comprise only the first audio frequency channel; generate the first audio response token; and communicate the first audio response token to first computing device via the first audio frequency channel.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein broadcasting the first audio token over the first audio frequency channel comprises broadcasting the first audio token at a first frequency band and the one or more other audio tokens are received at a frequency band different from the first frequency band.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the second microphone component is activated to receive audio inputs over an overall frequency band and the first audio token is broadcast at a subchannel of the overall frequency band.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the first audio response token is generated as a function of the first audio token.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein, in response to receiving the first audio response token from the second computing device, the first processor is further configured to execute application code instructions that are stored in the first storage device to cause the system to broadcast data to the second computing device via the first audio frequency channel.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the first processor is further configured to execute application code instructions that are stored in the first storage device to cause the first computing device to: encode the first audio token using a first encoding scheme, wherein broadcasting the first audio token comprises broadcasting the encoded first audio token encoded using the first encoding scheme; and wherein the second processor is further configured to execute application code instructions that are stored in the second storage device to cause the second computing device to: decode the received first audio token using the first encoding scheme; and encode the generated first audio response token, wherein transmitting the first audio response token comprises transmitting the encoded first audio response token encoded according to the first encoding scheme.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein decoding the received first audio token comprises cycling through two or more audio decoding schemes comprising at least the first encoding scheme until the first encoding scheme is successfully used to decode the first received audio token.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein determining that the received first audio token comprises a valid audio token comprises: extracting an identifier from the received first audio token; presenting the identifier via a user interface; and receiving an input via the user interface indicating approval of the identifier.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein determining that the received first audio token comprises a valid audio token comprises: extracting an identifier from the received first audio token; comparing the identifier to each of one more valid identifiers in a list of valid identifiers; and determining that the identifier matches a particular valid identifier in the list of valid identifiers.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein determining that the received first audio token comprises a valid audio token comprises: transmitting the received first audio token and the one or more other received audio tokens to one or more computing devices; and receiving, from the one or more computing devices, a selection of the first audio token.
11. A computer-implemented method to establish an audio communication channel between a broadcasting computing device and a user computing device, comprising: receiving, by a second computing device, an input indicating a request to receive data, wherein a first computing device broadcasts a first audio token comprising a first user computing device identifier over a first audio frequency channel; activating, by the second computing device, a second microphone component to receive audio inputs via two or more audio frequency channels comprising at least the first audio frequency channel; receiving, by the second computing device, the first audio token from the first computing device via the activated second microphone component over the first audio frequency channel; receiving, by the second computing device, one or more other audio tokens via the activated second microphone component over one or more other audio frequency channels not comprising the first audio frequency channel; determining, by the second computing device, that the received first audio token comprises a valid audio token; in response to determining that the received first audio token is a valid audio token, restricting, by the second computing device, the range of received audio inputs to comprise only the first audio frequency channel; generating, by the second computing device, the first audio response token; and communicating, by the second computing device, the first audio response token to first computing device via the first audio frequency channel, wherein the first computing device receives the first audio response token via the first audio frequency channel.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein broadcasting the first audio token over the first audio frequency channel comprises broadcasting the first audio token at a first frequency band and the one or more other audio tokens are received at a frequency band different from the first frequency band.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the second microphone component is activated to receive audio inputs over an overall frequency band and the first audio token is broadcast at a subchannel of the overall frequency band.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the first audio response token is generated as a function of the first audio token.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising, in response to receiving the first audio response token from the second computing device, broadcasting, by the first computing device, data to the second computing device via the first audio frequency channel.
16. 16-18. (canceled)
19. A computer program product, comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable medium having computer-executable program instructions embodied thereon that when executed by a second computing device, cause the second computing device to establish an audio communication channel between a broadcasting computing device and a user computing device, the computer-executable program instructions comprising: computer-executable program instructions to receive an input indicating a request to receive data, wherein a first computing device broadcasts a first audio token comprising a first user computing device identifier over a first audio frequency channel; computer-executable program instructions to activate a second microphone component to receive audio inputs via two or more audio frequency channels comprising at least the first audio frequency channel; computer-executable program instructions to receive the first audio token from the first computing device via the activated second microphone component over the first audio frequency channel; computer-executable program instructions to receive one or more other audio tokens via the activated second microphone component over one or more other audio frequency channels not comprising the first audio frequency channel; computer-executable program instructions to determine that the received first audio token comprises a valid audio token; computer-executable program instructions to restrict, in response to determining that the received first audio token is a valid audio token, the range of received audio inputs to comprise only the first audio frequency channel; computer-executable program instructions to generate the first audio response token; and computer-executable program instructions to communicate the first audio response token to first computing device via the first audio frequency channel, wherein the first computing device receives the first audio response token via the first audio frequency channel.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein broadcasting the first audio token over the first audio frequency channel comprises broadcasting the first audio token at a first frequency band and the one or more other audio tokens are received at a frequency band different from the first frequency band.
21. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the second microphone component is activated to receive audio inputs over an overall frequency band and the first audio token is broadcast at a subchannel of the overall frequency band.
22. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the first audio response token is generated as a function of the first audio token.
23. (canceled)
24. The computer program product of claim 23, wherein decoding the received first audio token comprises cycling through two or more audio decoding schemes comprising at least the first encoding scheme until the first encoding scheme is successfully used to decode the first received audio token.
25. 25-26. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
