<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/20,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Q BIO
</assignee>

<inventors>
FERNANDEZ VILLENA, JORGE
KADITZ, JEFFREY HOWARD
POLYMERIDIS, ATHANASIOS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72042595
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MODEL PARAMETER DETERMINATION USING A PREDICTIVE MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
A system may measure, using a measurement device, a response associated with a sample to an excitation. Then, the system may compute, using the measured response and the excitation as inputs to a predetermined predictive model, model parameters on a voxel-by-voxel basis in a forward model with multiple voxels that represent the sample. The forward model may simulate response physics occurring within the sample to a given excitation. For example, the forward model may be based on differential or phenomenological equations that approximates the response physics. Moreover, the system may determine an accuracy of the model parameters by comparing at least the measured response and a calculated predicted value of the response using the forward model, the model parameters and the excitation. When the accuracy exceeds a predefined value, the system may provide the model parameters as an output to: a user, another electronic device, a display, and/or a memory.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining model parameters associated with a sample, comprising operations of: applying, to the sample, an excitation using a source, wherein the excitation has at least a wavelength and an intensity or a flux, and wherein the excitation comprises one of: electromagnetic radiation, a radio-frequency wave, a particle beam, a sound wave, a magnetic field, or an electric field; measuring, using a measurement device, a response associated with the sample to the excitation; computing, using the measured response and information specifying the excitation as inputs to a predetermined predictive model, the model parameters on a voxel-by-voxel basis in a forward model with multiple voxels that represent the sample, wherein the forward model simulates response physics occurring within the sample to a given excitation with a given wavelength and a given intensity or a given flux, that are selected from a range of measurement conditions that includes the excitation, the wavelength and the intensity or the flux, and at least a different wavelength and a at least a different intensity or a different flux, and wherein the forward model is a function of the excitation, the model parameters of the multiple voxels, and differential or phenomenological equations that approximates the response physics; determining, using a computer, an accuracy of the model parameters by comparing at least the measured response and a calculated predicted value of the response using the forward model, the model parameters and the excitation; and providing, when the accuracy exceeds a predefined value, the model parameters as an output to a user, to another electronic device, to a display or to memory.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined predictive model comprises one of: a machine-learning model, or a neural network.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined predictive model comprises a personalized predictive model that corresponds to an individual.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein, when the accuracy exceeds the predefined value, the model parameters are computed in a single pass without further iteration.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the model parameters having an accuracy exceeding the predefined value are computed using fewer iterations with the predetermined predictive model than in iterative measurement and analysis technique without the predetermined predictive model.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein, when the accuracy is less than the predefined value, the method comprises: calculating, using information specifying the excitation and the accuracy as inputs to a second predetermined predictive model, a revised excitation that has at least a revised wavelength, a revised intensity or a revised flux; and repeating the applying, measuring, computing and determining operations with the revised excitation instead of the excitation.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the second predetermined predictive model comprises one of: a machine-learning model, or a neural network.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein, when the accuracy is less than the predefined value, the method comprises: adding the excitation and the measured response to a training dataset; and determining, using the training dataset, a revised instance of the predictive model.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the method comprises classifying or segmenting one or more anatomical structures in the sample using the model parameters and a second predictive model.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the second predetermined predictive model comprises one of: a machine-learning model, or a neural network.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the method comprises training the predictive model using a simulated dataset computed using the forward model, a range of model parameters and a range of excitations.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the excitation is one of: an electromagnetic beam in an x-ray band of wavelengths, a neutron beam, an electron beam, an electromagnetic beam in an optical band of wavelengths, an electromagnetic beam in an infrared band of wavelengths, a sound wave in an ultrasound band of wavelengths, a proton beam, the electric field associated with an impedance measurement device, the radio-frequency wave associated with a magnetic-resonance apparatus, or the magnetic field associated with a susceptibility measurement device.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the measured response comprises a time-domain response of the sample and is other than an image.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for use in conjunction with a computer, the computer-readable storage medium configured to store program instructions that, when executed by the computer, cause the computer to perform operations comprising: applying, to a sample, an excitation using a source, wherein the excitation has at least a wavelength and an intensity or a flux, and wherein the excitation comprises one of: electromagnetic radiation, a radio-frequency wave, a particle beam, a sound wave, a magnetic field, or an electric field; measuring, using a measurement device, a response associated with the sample to the excitation; computing, using the measured response and information specifying the excitation as inputs to a predetermined predictive model, model parameters on a voxel-by-voxel basis in a forward model with multiple voxels that represent the sample, wherein the forward model simulates response physics occurring within the sample to a given excitation with a given wavelength and a given intensity or a given flux, that are selected from a range of measurement conditions that includes the excitation, the wavelength and the intensity or the flux, and at least a different wavelength and a at least a different intensity or a different flux, and wherein the forward model is a function of the excitation, the model parameters of the multiple voxels, and differential or phenomenological equations that approximates the response physics; determining, using the computer, an accuracy of the model parameters by comparing at least the measured response and a calculated predicted value of the response using the forward model, the model parameters and the excitation; and providing, when the accuracy exceeds a predefined value, the model parameters as an output to a user, to another electronic device, to a display or to memory.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the predetermined predictive model comprises one of: a machine-learning model, or a neural network.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein, when the accuracy exceeds the predefined value, the model parameters are computed in a single pass without further iteration.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein, when the accuracy is less than the predefined value, the operations comprise: calculating, using information specifying the excitation and the accuracy as inputs to a second predetermined predictive model, a revised excitation that has at least a revised wavelength, a revised intensity or a revised flux; and repeating the applying, measuring, computing and determining operations with the revised excitation instead of the excitation.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the second predetermined predictive model comprises one of: a machine-learning model, or a neural network.
19. A system configured to determine model parameters, comprising: a source configured to provide an excitation, wherein the excitation comprises at least one of: an electromagnetic beam in an x-ray band of wavelengths, a neutron beam, an electron beam, an electromagnetic beam in an optical band of wavelengths, an electromagnetic beam in an infrared band of wavelengths, a sound wave in an ultrasound band of wavelengths, a proton beam, an electric field associated with an impedance measurement device, a radio-frequency wave associated with a magnetic-resonance apparatus, or a magnetic field associated with a susceptibility measurement device; a measurement device configured to perform measurements, wherein the measurement device comprises at least one of: an x-ray detector, a neutron detector, an electron detector, an optical detector, an infrared detector, an ultrasound detector, a proton detector, the magnetic-resonance apparatus, the impedance measurement device or the susceptibility measurement device; a processor, coupled to the source, the measurement device and memory, configured to execute program instructions; and the memory, coupled to the processor, configured to store the program instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the system to perform operations comprising: applying, to a sample, the excitation using the source, wherein the excitation has at least a wavelength and an intensity or a flux, and wherein the excitation comprises one of: electromagnetic radiation, a radio-frequency wave, a particle beam, a sound wave, a magnetic field, or an electric field; measuring, using a measurement device, a response associated with the sample to the excitation; computing, using the measured response and information specifying the excitation as inputs to a predetermined predictive model, model parameters on a voxel-by-voxel basis in a forward model with multiple voxels that represent the sample, wherein the forward model simulates response physics occurring within the sample to a given excitation with a given wavelength and a given intensity or a given flux, that are selected from a range of measurement conditions that includes the excitation, the wavelength and the intensity or the flux, and at least a different wavelength and a at least a different intensity or a different flux, and wherein the forward model is a function of the excitation, the model parameters of the multiple voxels, and differential or phenomenological equations that approximates the response physics; determining, using the processor, an accuracy of the model parameters by comparing at least the measured response and a calculated predicted value of the response using the forward model, the model parameters and the excitation; and providing, when the accuracy exceeds a predefined value, the model parameters as an output to a user, to another electronic device, to a display or to the memory.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the predetermined predictive model comprises one of: a machine-learning model, or a neural network.
</claims>
</document>
