<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/21,G06F21/56,G06N3/08,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUANTUM STAR TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
OETKEN, GARRETT THOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69773662
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Bit-level data generation and artificial intelligence techniques and architectures for data protection
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques and architectures for representing data with one or more n-dimensional representations and/or using one or more models to identify threats associated with the one or more n-dimensional representations are described herein. For example, the techniques and architectures may determine one or more coordinates for one or more points based on one or more sets of bits in the data and generate an n-dimensional representation for the data based on the one or more points. The techniques and architectures may evaluate the n-dimensional representation with one or more machine-trained models to detect a threat associated with the data, such as malware or another threat.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of detecting malware, the method comprising: receiving, by a computing device, data from a data store; identifying, by the computing device, at least a first group of bits in the data and a second group of bits in the data; representing, by the computing device, a first set of bits in the first group of bits as a first coordinate for a first point and a second set of bits in the first group of bits as a second coordinate for the first point; representing, by the computing device, a first set of bits in the second group of bits as a first coordinate for a second point and a second set of bits in the second group of bits as a second coordinate for the second point; generating, by the computing device, an n-dimensional representation for the data based at least in part on the first point and the second point; processing the n-dimensional representation using a model that has been trained using machine learning; and determining a malware rating for the data based at least in part on the processing, the malware rating indicating a likelihood that the data is associated with malware.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: representing, by the computing device, a third set of bits in the first group of bits as a third coordinate for the first point, wherein the n-dimensional representation comprises a three-dimensional representation.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first set of bits in the first group of bits comprises a first byte, the second set of bits in the first group of bits comprises a second byte that is directly adjacent to the first byte, and the third set of bits in the first group of bits comprises a third byte that is directly adjacent to the second byte.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the data comprises file system data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the data comprises non-image-based data.
6. A system comprising: control circuitry; and memory communicatively coupled to the control circuitry and storing executable instructions that, when executed by the control circuitry, cause the control circuitry to perform operations comprising: obtaining data; determining a first coordinate for a first point based at least in part on a first set of bits in the data and determining a second coordinate for the first point based at least in part on a second set of bits in the data that is adjacent to the first set of bits; determining a first coordinate for a second point based at least in part on a third set of bits in the data and determining a second coordinate for the second point based at least in part on a fourth set of bits in the data that is adjacent to the third set of bits; generating an n-dimensional representation for the data based at least in part on the first point and the second point; and causing the n-dimensional representation to be processed with a machine-trained model that is configured to detect malware.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the first set of bits comprises a first byte and the second set of bits comprises a second byte that is directly adjacent to the first byte.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein obtaining the data comprises retrieving data from a data store, the data comprising file system data.
9. The system of claim 6, wherein the operations further comprise: extracting a first portion of the data and refraining from extracting a second portion of the data, the first portion of the data including the first set of bits and the second set of bits.
10. The system of claim 6, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a type of the data; and determining to represent the data with a first portion of the data based at least in part on the type of the data, the first portion of the data including the first set of bits and the second set of bits.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the first portion of the data includes at least one of a header, a body, or a footer.
12. The system of claim 6, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a type of the data; and determining to represent the data with a first portion of the data and a second portion of the data based at least in part on the type of the data, the first portion of the data including the first set of bits and the second set of bits.
13. The system of claim 6, wherein the operations further comprise: training a model to create the machine-trained model, the training being based at least in part on one or more n-dimensional representations that are tagged as being associated with malware and one or more n-dimensional representations that are tagged as being malware free.
14. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed, instruct one or more processors to perform operations comprising: obtaining data; determining a first coordinate for a first point based at least in part on a first set of bits in the data and determining a second coordinate for the first point based at least in part on a second set of bits in the data that is adjacent to the first set of bits; determining a first coordinate for a second point based at least in part on a third set of bits in the data and determining a second coordinate for the second point based at least in part on a fourth set of bits in the data that is adjacent to the third set of bits; generating an n-dimensional representation for the data based at least in part on the first and second coordinates for the first point and the first and second coordinates for the second point; and causing the n-dimensional representation to be processed with a machine-trained model that is configured to detect a threat.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 14, wherein the data comprises at least one of file system data, network traffic data, runtime data, or data associated with an isolated environment.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: processing the n-dimensional representation with the machine-trained model; detecting the threat based at least in part on the processing; and performing a threat operation to address the threat, the threat operation comprising at least one of removing the threat, preventing the threat from associating with the data, or providing a notification to a computing device regarding the threat.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 14, wherein the first set of bits is directly adjacent to the second set of bits.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a type of the data; and determining to represent the data with a first portion of the data based at least in part on the type of the data, the first portion of the data including the first set of bits, the second set of bits, the third set of bits, and the fourth set of bits.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: training a model to create the machine-trained model, the training being based at least in part on one or more n-dimensional representations that are tagged as being associated with one or more threats and one or more n-dimensional representations that are tagged as being threat free.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 19, wherein the machine-trained model includes an artificial neural network and the training includes using machine learning.
</claims>
</document>
