<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/20,G16H10/60,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FLATIRON HEALTH
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEUNG, ANGEL
DONEGAN, JANET
SUTTON, LAUREN
PADMOS, ALEXANDER
CHEN, ZEXI
Nightingale, Caroline
Larson, Peter
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71083725
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PATIENT-TRIAL MATCHING
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented system for determining trials using a metastatic condition of a patient may include at least one processor programmed to receive a selection of a patient; access, in response to the selection of the patient, a patient dataset associated with the patient; receive a predicted metastatic condition associated with the patient; cause display of at least a first portion of the patient dataset and the predicted metastatic condition; determine, based on at least a second portion of the patient dataset or the predicted metastatic condition, a subset of trials for the patient, wherein the subset of trials for the patient is determined from a plurality of trials; and cause display of at least the subset of the trials for the patient.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device for determining trials using a metastatic condition of a patient, the system comprising: at least one processor programmed to: receive a selection of the patient; access, in response to the selection of the patient, a patient dataset associated with the patient; receive a predicted metastatic condition associated with the patient; cause display of at least a first portion of the patient dataset and the predicted metastatic condition; determine, based on at least a second portion of the patient dataset or the predicted metastatic condition, a subset of trials for the patient, wherein the subset of trials for the patient is determined from a plurality of trials; and cause display of at least the subset of the trials for the patient.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the predicted metastatic condition is predicted by a trained model configured to receive a document comprising unstructured information.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the trained model includes a machine-learning model.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the predicted metastatic condition comprises a degree of likelihood determined by the machine-learning model.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the document includes an electronic document.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the unstructured information includes medical data associated with the patient.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the electronic document was generated by scanning a physical document with a scanning device.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the patient dataset is stored among a plurality of patient datasets at a database.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to receive an input comprising a verified metastatic condition of the patient.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to transmit the predicted metastatic condition and the verified metastatic condition to a remote device.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the remote device includes a mobile device.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein determining the subset of trials is based on the verified metastatic condition.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to: based on the verified metastatic condition indicating the patient is metastatic, forgo updating the predicted metastatic condition.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein: each of the plurality of trials is associated with a metastatic condition criterion; and determining the subset of trials comprises comparing the predicted metastatic condition to a metastatic condition criterion of a trial included in the plurality of trials.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein: the at least one processor is further programmed to determine that the predicted metastatic condition satisfies the metastatic condition criterion of the trial of the plurality of trials based on the comparing; and determining the subset of trials comprises including the trial associated with the satisfied metastatic condition in the subset of trials.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein: the at least one processor is further programmed to determine the predicted metastatic condition does not satisfy the metastatic condition criterion of the trial of the plurality of trials based on the comparing; and determining the subset of trials comprises excluding the trial associated with the unsatisfied metastatic condition in the subset of trials.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein causing the display of the subset of trials comprises displaying criteria of the subset of trials and indicators of a patient qualification status for the criteria.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to: receive an input comprising a verified metastatic condition of the patient; and cause an update to the display of at least one of the indicators based on the verified metastatic condition of the patient.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to: receive an input comprising a verified metastatic condition of the patient; and cause a removal of at least one trial from the subset of trials based on the verified metastatic condition of the patient.
20. A method for determining trials using a metastatic condition of a patient, comprising: receiving a selection of the patient; accessing, in response to the selection of the patient, a patient dataset associated with the patient; receiving a predicted metastatic condition associated with the patient; causing display of the at least a first portion of the patient dataset and the predicted metastatic condition; determining, based on at least a second portion of the patient dataset or the predicted metastatic condition, a subset of trials for the patient, wherein the subset of trials for the patient is determined from a plurality of trials; and causing display of at least the subset of trials for the patient.
21. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive a selection of the patient; access, in response to the selection of the patient, a patient dataset associated with the patient; receive a predicted metastatic condition associated with the patient; cause display of at least a first portion of the patient dataset and the predicted metastatic condition; determine, based on at least a second portion of the patient dataset or the predicted metastatic condition, a subset of trials for the patient, wherein the subset of trials for the patient is determined from a plurality of trials; and cause display of at least the subset of trials for the patient.
</claims>
</document>
