<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60K31/00,B62D1/28,B62D15/02,G01C21/20,G01C21/34,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06K9/00,G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WING AVIATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRUNDMANN, MICHAEL
LEVINE, GABRIELLA
SCHUBERT, MARTIN
WATSON, PHILIP
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65231782
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DETERMINING PATH CONFIDENCE FOR UNMANNED VEHICLES
</title>

<abstract>
Examples implementations relate to determining path confidence for a vehicle. An example method includes receiving a request for a vehicle to navigate a target location. The method further includes determining a navigation path for the vehicle to traverse a first segment of the target location based on a plurality of prior navigation paths previously determined for traversal of segments similar to the first segment of the target location. The method also includes determining a confidence level associated with the navigation path. Based on the determined confidence level, the method additionally includes selecting a navigation mode for the vehicle from a plurality of navigation modes corresponding to a plurality of levels of remote assistance. The method further includes causing the vehicle to traverse the first segment of the target location using a level of remote assistance corresponding to the selected navigation mode for the vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored therein program instructions executable by a computing system to cause the computing system to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving a request for a vehicle to navigate a target location; determining a navigation path for the vehicle to traverse a first segment of the target location using an artificial neural network (ANN) trained based on a plurality of prior navigation paths previously determined for traversal of segments similar to the first segment of the target location, wherein the ANN comprises at least one of an input node configured to receive as input sensor data representing the first segment of the target location from a sensor on the vehicle, and an input node configured to receive as input one or more locomotive capabilities of the vehicle; determining a confidence level associated with the navigation path; based on the determined confidence level, selecting a navigation mode for the vehicle from a plurality of navigation modes corresponding to a plurality of levels of remote assistance; and causing the vehicle to traverse the first segment of the target location using a level of remote assistance corresponding to the selected navigation mode for the vehicle.
2. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein determining the navigation path further comprises determining a distribution of navigation paths and associated probabilities using a probabilistic path-finding model, wherein the confidence level is further based on the distribution of navigation paths and associated probabilities.
3. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein determining the navigation path comprises using a generative adversarial network (GAN), wherein the GAN comprises a path-planning model trained to generate navigation paths and a discriminator model trained to distinguish between operator-provided navigation paths and navigation paths generated by the path-planning model.
4. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the prior navigation paths comprise at least one of paths navigated by a remote operator of the vehicle, paths navigated by one or more vehicles other than the vehicle, and paths input by an operator at a user interface for simulating vehicle delivery.
5. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to determining that the confidence level is greater than a predefined confidence level threshold, selecting, as the navigation mode, autonomous control by a control system on the vehicle to traverse the first segment of the target location; and in response to determining that the confidence level is less than the predefined confidence level threshold, selecting, as the navigation mode, remote control of the vehicle by a remote operator to traverse the first segment of the target location.
6. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein selecting the navigation mode for the vehicle includes: determining that the confidence level is greater than a first predefined confidence level threshold and less than a second predefined confidence level; and based on determining that the confidence level is greater than the first predefined confidence level threshold and less than the second predefined confidence level, selecting, as the navigation mode, autonomous control by a control system on the vehicle that follows a plurality of waypoints.
7. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a second navigation path for the vehicle to traverse a second segment of the target location; determining a second confidence level associated with the determined second navigation path for the vehicle to traverse the second segment of the target location; based on the determined second confidence level, selecting a different navigation mode for the vehicle from the plurality of navigation modes; and causing the vehicle to traverse the second segment of the target location using a different level of remote assistance corresponding to the selected different navigation mode for the vehicle.
8. The computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein each of the first segment and the second segment comprise a discrete surface for the vehicle to traverse at the target location.
9. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the segments similar to the first segment of the target location have at least one of a similar topology and a same surface material as the first segment of the target location.
10. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the segments similar to the first segment of the target location comprise the first segment of the target location.
11. A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored therein program instructions executable by a computing system to cause the computing system to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving a request for a vehicle to navigate to a target location; determining a navigation path for the vehicle to traverse a first segment of the target location using an artificial neural network (ANN) trained based on a plurality of prior navigation paths previously determined for traversal of segments similar to the first segment of the target location; determining a confidence level associated with the determined navigation path; based on the determined confidence level, selecting a navigation mode for the vehicle from a plurality of navigation modes corresponding to a plurality of levels of remote assistance; and causing the vehicle to traverse the first segment of the target location using a level of remote assistance corresponding to the selected navigation mode for the vehicle; wherein the plurality of navigation modes includes: autonomous control by a control system on the vehicle to traverse a series of waypoints generated or confirmed by a remote operator; and autonomous control by a control system on the vehicle to traverse a series of waypoints generated by the control system on the vehicle without confirmation by a remote operator.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein determining the navigation path comprises using a generative adversarial network (GAN), wherein the GAN comprises a path-planning model trained to generate navigation paths and a discriminator model trained to distinguish between operator-provided navigation paths and navigation paths generated by the path-planning model.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the prior navigation paths comprise at least one of paths navigated by a remote operator of the vehicle, paths navigated by one or more vehicles other than the vehicle, and paths input by an operator at a user interface for simulating vehicle delivery.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a second navigation path for the vehicle to traverse a second segment of the target location; determining a second confidence level associated with the determined second navigation path; based on the determined second confidence level, selecting a different navigation mode for the vehicle from the plurality of navigation modes; and causing the vehicle to traverse the second segment of the target location using a different level of remote assistance corresponding to the selected different navigation mode for the vehicle.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein each of the first segment and the second segment comprise a discrete surface for the vehicle to traverse at the target location.
16. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, by a computing system, a request for a vehicle to navigate to a target location; determining, by the computing system, a navigation path for the vehicle to traverse a first segment of the target location using an artificial neural network (ANN) trained based on a plurality of prior navigation paths previously determined for traversal of segments similar to the first segment of the target location; determining, by the computing system, a confidence level associated with the determined navigation path; based on the determined confidence level, selecting, by the computing system, a navigation mode for the vehicle from a plurality of navigation modes corresponding to a plurality of levels of remote assistance; and causing, by the computing system, the vehicle to traverse the first segment of the target location using a level of remote assistance corresponding to the selected navigation mode for the vehicle; wherein the plurality of navigation modes includes: autonomous control by a control system on the vehicle to traverse a series of waypoints generated or confirmed by a remote operator; and autonomous control by a control system on the vehicle to traverse a series of waypoints generated by the control system on the vehicle without confirmation by a remote operator.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein determining the navigation path comprises using a generative adversarial network (GAN), wherein the GAN comprises a path-planning model trained to generate navigation paths and a discriminator model trained to distinguish between operator-provided navigation paths and navigation paths generated by the path-planning model.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the prior navigation paths comprise at least one of paths navigated by a remote operator of the vehicle, paths navigated by one or more vehicles other than the vehicle, and paths input by an operator at a user interface for simulating vehicle delivery.
19. The method of claim 16, further comprising: determining a second navigation path for the vehicle to traverse a second segment of the target location; determining a second confidence level associated with the determined second navigation path; based on the determined second confidence level, selecting a different navigation mode for the vehicle from the plurality of navigation modes; and causing the vehicle to traverse the second segment of the target location using a different level of remote assistance corresponding to the selected different navigation mode for the vehicle.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein each of the first segment and the second segment comprise a discrete surface for the vehicle to traverse at the target location.
</claims>
</document>
