<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2007-04-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02,H04L29/08,H04W4/024,H04W72/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GROUPON
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOWNS, OLIVER B.
VENGROFF, DARREN E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
39926104
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETERMINING LOCATIONS OF INTEREST BASED ON USER VISITS
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described for determining locations of interest based on user visits. In some situations, the techniques include obtaining information about actual locations of users at various times, and automatically analyzing the information to determine particular locations in a geographic area that are of interest, such as for frequent destinations visited by users. After determining a particular location of interest, it may be represented by generating a corresponding location model to describe the geographic subarea or other location point(s) covered by the determined location of interest, and one or more points of interest (e.g., businesses, parks, schools, landmarks, etc.) may be identified that are located at or otherwise correspond to the determined location of interest. In addition, a determined location of interest may be further used in various ways, including to identify later user visits to that location (e.g., to a point of interest identified for the location).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-45. (canceled)
46. A system, comprising one or more computers and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more computers to: receive, from one or more location detecting devices, location information associated with a location of one or more devices in a spatial radius over a period of time; calculate location invariance measures with respect to the spatial radius over the period of time; determine updated location information associated with the one or more devices based on the location invariance measures; and generate one or more advertisements for the one or more devices based on the updated location information.
47. The system of claim 46, wherein the one or more storage devices store instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to further cause the one or more computers to: obtain activity information related to the updated location information and associated with the one or more devices, wherein the activity information indicates one or more activities predicted to be conducted by users of the one or more devices.
48. The system of claim 47, wherein the one or more advertisements is generated based on the updated location information and the activity information.
49. The system of claim 47, wherein the one or more storage devices store instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to further cause the one or more computers to: determine, based on the updated location information and the activity information, contextual information comprising one or more relationships between the users of the one or more devices.
50. The system of claim 49, wherein the one or more advertisements is generated based on the updated location information and the contextual information.
51. The system of claim 49, wherein the one or more advertisements is generated based on the updated location information, the activity information and the contextual information.
52. The system of claim 49, wherein the one or more storage devices store instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to further cause the one or more computers to: identify activities anticipated to interest a subset of the users of the one or more devices based on the updated location information and the activity information.
53. The system of claim 49, wherein the one or more storage devices store instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to further cause the one or more computers to: determine that a plurality of the one or more devices are acting together or otherwise engaged in a common activity at a point of interest.
54. The system of claim 47, wherein the one or more storage devices store instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to further cause the one or more computers to: determine, based on the updated location information and the activity information, state information regarding movement of at least one device of the one or more devices, wherein the state information indicates a type of transportation method by which the at least one device is moving, and wherein the one or more advertisements is generated based on the updated location information and the state information.
55. The system of claim 47, wherein the one or more storage devices store instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to further cause the one or more computers to: determine, based on the updated location information and the activity information, type information that indicates a duration, purpose, or activity associated with one of the one or more devices, wherein the one or more advertisements is generated based on the updated location information and the type information.
56. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, from one or more location detecting devices, location information associated with a location of one or more devices in a spatial radius over a period of time; calculating location invariance measures with respect to the spatial radius over the period of time; determining updated location information associated with the one or more devices based on the location invariance measures; and generating one or more advertisements for the one or more devices based on the updated location information.
57. The computer-implemented method of claim 56, further comprising: obtaining activity information related to the updated location information and associated with the one or more devices, wherein the activity information indicates one or more activities predicted to be conducted by users of the one or more devices.
58. The computer-implemented method of claim 57, wherein the generating the one or more advertisements comprises generating the one or more advertisements based on the updated location information and the activity information.
59. The computer-implemented method of claim 57, further comprising: determining, based on the updated location information and the activity information, contextual information comprising one or more relationships between the users of the one or more devices.
60. The computer-implemented method of claim 59, wherein the generating the one or more advertisements comprises generating the one or more advertisements based on the updated location information and the contextual information.
61. The computer-implemented method of claim 59, wherein the generating the one or more advertisements comprises generating the one or more advertisements based on the updated location information, the activity information and the contextual information.
62. The computer-implemented method of claim 57, further comprising: identifying activities anticipated to interest a subset of the users of the one or more devices based on the updated location information and the activity information.
63. A computer program product, stored on a computer readable medium, comprising instructions that when executed by one or more computers cause the one or more computers to: receive, from one or more location detecting devices, location information associated with a location of one or more devices in a spatial radius over a period of time; calculate location invariance measures with respect to the spatial radius over the period of time; determine updated location information associated with the one or more devices based on the location invariance measures; and generate one or more advertisements for the one or more devices based on the updated location information.
64. The computer program product of claim 63, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more computers, further cause the one or more computers to: obtain activity information related to the updated location information and associated with the one or more devices, wherein the activity information indicates one or more activities predicted to be conducted by users of the one or more devices.
65. The computer program product of claim 64, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more computers, further cause the one or more computers to: determine, based on the updated location information and the activity information, contextual information comprising one or more relationships between the users of the one or more devices.
</claims>
</document>
