<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/20,G06N7/00,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING DIDI INFINITY TECHNOLOGY AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HE, GUANQIAO
LI, QIAO
SUN, ZHAO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68982752
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ALLOCATING SERVICE REQUESTS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for allocating service requests. The systems may obtain service request information associated with a service request to be allocated and provider information associated with each of a plurality of candidate service providers. The systems may also determine a matching degree of each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the service request information and the provider information. The systems may determine the matching degree based on a probability of accidents which may be predicted based on a prediction model. The systems may further determine a target service provider based on the matching degree of each of the plurality of candidate service providers and allocate the service request to the target service provider.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-28. (canceled)
29. A system for allocating service requests, comprising: a storage medium to store a set of instructions; and a processor, communicatively coupled to the storage medium, to execute the set of instructions to: obtain, via a network, service request information associated with a service request to be allocated from a requester terminal and provider information associated with each of a plurality of candidate service providers; determine a matching degree of each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the service request information and the provider information; determine a target service provider based on the matching degree of each of the plurality of candidate service providers; and transmit data associated with the service request to a target provider terminal corresponding to the target service provider via the network.
30. The system of claim 29, wherein the service request information includes at least one of a start time, a start location, a city where the service request is initiated, weather information of the city, a density of accidental service orders within a predetermined range of the start location, an estimated mileage, a gender of a service requester, an age of the service requester, historical evaluation information of the service requester, a registration time of the service requester, complaint records of the service requester, or a combination thereof; or the provider information of each of the plurality of candidate service providers includes at least one of a gender of the candidate service provider, an age of the candidate service provider, historical evaluation information of the candidate service provider, a registration time of the candidate service provider, a service score of the candidate service provider, historical service order records of the candidate service provider, or a combination thereof.
31. The system of claim 29, wherein to determine the matching degree of each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the service request information and the provider information, the processor is to: determine an allocation parameter of each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the service request information and the provider information; predict a probability of accidents corresponding to each of the plurality of candidate service providers with respect to the service request; determine a matching weight for each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the probability of accidents; and determine the matching degree of each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the allocation parameter and the matching weight.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein the allocation parameter comprises at least one of a linear distance between a start location of the service request and a location of the candidate service provider, a driving distance between the start location of the service request and the location of the candidate service provider, or an estimated travel time from the location of the candidate service provider to the start location of the service request.
33. The system of claim 31, wherein to determine the matching weight for each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the probability of accidents, the processor is to: determine the matching weight as 1 in response to that the probability of accidents is lower than a predetermined threshold; and determine the matching weight inversely proportional to the probability of accidents in response to that the probability of accidents is larger than or equal to the predetermined threshold.
34. The system of claim 31, wherein to determine the matching degree of each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the allocation parameter and the matching weight, the processor is to: determine a preliminary matching degree of each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the allocation parameter; and determine the matching degree of each of the plurality of candidate service providers by adjusting the preliminary matching degree based on the matching weight.
35. The system of claim 31, wherein to predict the probability of accidents corresponding to each of the plurality of service providers with respect to the service request, the processor is to: predict the probability of accidents corresponding to each of the plurality of candidate service providers with respect to the service request using a trained prediction model.
36. The system of claim 35, wherein the trained prediction model is determined using a training process, the training process comprising: obtaining a plurality of historical service orders; extracting historical service order information from the plurality of historical service orders; determining a plurality of samples including a plurality of positive samples and a plurality of negative samples based on historical evaluation information in the historical service order information; and determining the trained prediction model based on the plurality of positive samples and the plurality of negative samples.
37. The system of claim 36, wherein the determining the trained prediction model based on the plurality of positive samples and the plurality of negative samples comprises: extracting sample features from each of the plurality of samples; obtaining a preliminary prediction model; determining a plurality of sample accident probabilities corresponding to the plurality of samples based on the preliminary prediction model and the sample features; determining whether the plurality of sample accident probabilities satisfy a preset condition; and designating the preliminary prediction model as the trained prediction model in response to that the plurality of sample accident probabilities satisfy the preset condition.
38. The system of claim 37, wherein the determining the trained prediction model based on the plurality of positive samples and the plurality of negative samples comprises: updating the preliminary prediction model in response to that the plurality of sample accident probabilities do not satisfy the preset condition.
39. The system of any of claim 35, wherein the trained prediction model includes an Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) model.
40. A method implemented on a computing device including at least one processor, at least one storage medium, and a communication platform connected to a network, the method comprising: obtaining, via the network, service request information associated with a service request to be allocated from a requester terminal and provider information associated with each of a plurality of candidate service providers; determining a matching degree of each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the service request information and the provider information; determining a target service provider based on the matching degree of each of the plurality of candidate service providers; and transmitting data associated with the service request to a target provider terminal corresponding to the target service provider via the network.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein the service request information includes at least one of a start time, a start location, a city where the service request is initiated, weather information of the city, a density of accidental service orders within a predetermined range of the start location, an estimated mileage, a gender of a service requester, an age of the service requester, historical evaluation information of the service requester, a registration time of the service requester, complaint records of the service requester, or a combination thereof; or the provider information of each of the plurality of candidate service providers includes at least one of a gender of the candidate service provider, an age of the candidate service provider, historical evaluation information of the candidate service provider, a registration time of the candidate service provider, a service score of the candidate service provider, historical service order records of the candidate service provider, or a combination thereof.
42. The method of claim 40, wherein the determining the matching degree of each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the service request information and the provider information comprises: determining an allocation parameter of each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the service request information and the provider information; predicting a probability of accidents corresponding to each of the plurality of candidate service providers with respect to the service request; determining a matching weight for each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the probability of accidents; and determining the matching degree of each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the allocation parameter and the matching weight.
43. The method of claim 42, wherein the allocation parameter comprises at least one of a linear distance between a start location of the service request and a location of the candidate service provider, a driving distance between the start location of the service request and the location of the candidate service provider, or an estimated travel time from the location of the candidate service provider to the start location of the service request.
44. The method of claim 42, wherein the determining the matching weight for each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the probability of accidents comprises: determining the matching weight as 1 in response to that the probability of accidents is lower than a predetermined threshold; and determining the matching weight inversely proportional to the probability of accidents in response to that the probability of accidents is larger than or equal to the predetermined threshold.
45. The method of claim 42, wherein the determining the matching degree of each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the allocation parameter and the matching weight comprises: determining a preliminary matching degree of each of the plurality of candidate service providers based on the allocation parameter; and determining the matching degree of each of the plurality of candidate service providers by adjusting the preliminary matching degree based on the matching weight.
46. The method of claim 42, wherein the predicting the probability of accidents corresponding to each of the plurality of service providers with respect to the service request comprises: predicting the probability of accidents corresponding to each of the plurality of candidate service providers with respect to the service request using a trained prediction model.
47. The method of claim 46, wherein the trained prediction model is determined using a training process, the training process comprising: obtaining a plurality of historical service orders; extracting historical service order information from the plurality of historical service orders; determining a plurality of samples including a plurality of positive samples and a plurality of negative samples based on historical evaluation information in the historical service order information; and determining the trained prediction model based on the plurality of positive samples and the plurality of negative samples.
48. The method of claim 47, wherein the determining the trained prediction model based on the plurality of positive samples and the plurality of negative samples comprises: extracting sample features from each of the plurality of samples; obtaining a preliminary prediction model; determining a plurality of sample accident probabilities corresponding to the plurality of samples based on the preliminary prediction model and the sample features; determining whether the plurality of sample accident probabilities satisfy a preset condition; and designating the preliminary prediction model as the trained prediction model in response to that the plurality of sample accident probabilities satisfy the preset condition.
49. 49-62. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
