<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/16,G06N3/02,G11C11/56,G11C16/08,G11C16/10,G11C16/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SANDISK TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
AL-SHAMMA, ALI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69139756
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Neural network matrix multiplication in memory cells
</title>

<abstract>
Various examples for accelerating multiplication operations are presented, which can be employed in neural network operations, among other applications. In one example, a circuit comprises a non-volatile memory cell, and an input circuit coupled to a gate terminal of the non-volatile memory cell. The input circuit is configured to ramp a control voltage applied to the gate terminal at a ramp rate representing a multiplicand value. An output circuit coupled to an output terminal of the non-volatile memory cell and is configured to generate an output pulse based on the control voltage satisfying a threshold voltage of the non-volatile memory cell, where the output pulse has a duration comprising the multiplicand value multiplied by a multiplier value represented by the threshold voltage.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A circuit comprising: a non-volatile memory cell; an input circuit coupled to a gate terminal of the non-volatile memory cell and configured to ramp a gate voltage applied to the gate terminal at a ramp rate representing multiplicand value; and an output circuit coupled to an output terminal of the non-volatile memory cell and configured to generate an output pulse in response to the gate voltage satisfying a threshold voltage of the non-volatile memory cell, wherein the output pulse has a duration corresponding to the multiplicand value multiplied by a multiplier value represented by the threshold voltage.
2. The circuit of claim 1, wherein the non-volatile memory cell comprises a quad-level NOR flash memory cell, wherein the multiplicand value and the multiplier value each comprise a bit vector having a range of values corresponding to a quantity of storage states encoded by the threshold voltage of the quad-level NOR flash memory cell, and wherein the duration of the output pulse corresponds to a multiplication between a bit vector of the input value and a bit vector of the multiplier value.
3. The circuit of claim 1, comprising: the output circuit comprising a comparator coupled to the output terminal of the non-volatile memory cell and configured to produce the output pulse based on a comparison between a reference voltage and an output state of the non-volatile memory cell.
4. The circuit of claim 1, comprising: the input circuit configured to ramp the gate voltage from a program voltage of the non-volatile memory cell downward to a reference voltage of the circuit, wherein the ramp rate corresponds to an inverse of the multiplicand value scaled by a ramp time granularity.
5. The circuit of claim 4, wherein the duration of the output pulse corresponds to a time period during the ramp time when the gate voltage exceeds the threshold voltage of the non-volatile memory cell representing the multiplier value.
6. The circuit of claim 4, comprising: the output circuit configured to convert the output pulse into a digital representation based on the ramp time granularity applied to the duration of the output pulse.
7. A circuit comprising: an array of non-volatile memory cells with gate terminals coupled to word lines and output terminals coupled to bit lines, wherein stored values in the non-volatile memory cells represent elements of a multiplier matrix; ramp circuitry coupled to the word lines and configured to ramp gate voltages on the word lines according to ramp rates representing elements of a multiplicand matrix; sense amplifiers coupled to the bit lines and configured to generate output pulses based at least on states of the non-volatile memory cells; adders each configured to add the output pulses of a corresponding subset of sense amplifiers; and counter circuitry configured to count sums output by the adders over a ramp period to determine elements of an output matrix comprising matrix multiplication products of the multiplicand matrix and the multiplier matrix.
8. The circuit of claim 7, wherein durations of the output pulses each indicate multiplication products of a corresponding element of the multiplier matrix multiplied by a corresponding element of the multiplicand matrix.
9. The circuit of claim 8, wherein each count of the sums over the ramp period corresponds to one of the elements of the output matrix.
10. The circuit of claim 7, wherein the non-volatile memory cells each comprise a quad-level NOR flash memory cell having a quantity of storage states encoded by a threshold voltage of the quad-level NOR flash memory cell, and wherein the elements of the multiplier matrix and the elements of the multiplicand matrix each comprise a bit vector having a range of values corresponding to the quantity of storage states.
11. The circuit of claim 7, comprising: responsive to the gate voltages satisfying threshold voltages of the non-volatile memory cells encoding the stored values, the non-volatile memory cells each configured to operate in an active state coupling a corresponding bit line to a reference potential; and responsive to the gate voltages not satisfying the threshold voltages, the non-volatile memory cells each configured to operate in an inactive state decoupling the corresponding bit line from the reference potential.
12. The circuit of claim 7, comprising: the ramp circuitry configured to decrease the gate voltages from an initial voltage corresponding to a program voltage of the non-volatile memory cells downward to a reference voltage according to the ramp rates determined as inverse values of the elements of the multiplicand matrix scaled by a time granularity of the ramp period.
13. The circuit of claim 7, comprising: a programming circuitry configured to write the stored values into the non-volatile memory cells to represent numerical values of the elements of the multiplier matrix subtracted from a programming voltage of the non-volatile memory cells.
14. The circuit of claim 7, wherein a plurality of predetermined ramp rates are established as corresponding to a range of numerical values possible for the elements of the multiplicand matrix scaled according to a time granularity of the ramp period.
15. The circuit of claim 7, wherein the matrix multiplication corresponds to an image convolution operation of an artificial neural network, wherein the multiplicand matrix comprises an activation matrix for the image convolution operation, and wherein the multiplier matrix comprises a weighted filter for the image convolution operation.
16. A circuit, comprising: non-volatile memory cells arranged into an array of rows and columns; word lines coupling gate terminals of the non-volatile memory cells across each row; ramp circuitry configured to ramp input voltages on the word lines over a ramp period according to ramp rates determined for each word line based on a set of input signals derived from an input matrix; sense circuitry configured to generate intermediate results based on threshold voltages of the non-volatile memory cells triggered during the ramping of the input voltages, wherein the threshold voltages represent weights of a weighted filter matrix; and output circuitry configured to add subsets of the intermediate results computed over the ramp period to determine an output matrix comprising a matrix multiplication result of the input matrix and the weighted filter matrix.
17. The circuit of claim 16, comprising: the non-volatile memory elements arranged into nine rows and three columns; wherein the input matrix comprises a 3×3 input matrix having each of the elements of the 3×3 input matrix corresponding to one of the word lines; and wherein the weighted filter matrix comprises a 3×3 filter matrix represented in three instances of the threshold voltages set over three rows and three columns among the non-volatile memory elements.
18. The circuit of claim 17, wherein the circuit comprises at least a portion of a convolutional neural network, and wherein the matrix multiplication result of the input matrix and the weighted filter matrix correspond to the 3×3 input matrix convolved by the 3×3 filter matrix.
19. The circuit of claim 16, comprising: the ramp circuitry configured to decrease the input voltages from an initial voltage corresponding to a program voltage of the non-volatile memory elements downward to a reference voltage according to the ramp rates determined as inverse values of the elements of the input matrix scaled by a time granularity of the ramp period.
20. The circuit of claim 16, comprising: programming circuitry configured to write values into the non-volatile memory elements that set the threshold voltages to represent numerical values of the elements of the weighted filter matrix subtracted from a programming voltage of the non-volatile memory elements.
</claims>
</document>
