<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G08B6/00,H02P25/064
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GENERAL VIBRATION CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAJAJ, NIKHIL
HOUSTON, JOHN
MORRIS, ROB
Chiu, George T.-C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66439028
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COHERENT PHASE SWITCHING AND MODULATION OF A LINEAR ACTUATOR ARRAY
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the technology employ synchronized arrays of low-cost, readily available vibration actuators to emulate and outperform single actuator systems, bringing together sets of actuators to create desired control effects. This approach involves coherent phase switching and modulation of a linear actuator array. A pair of linear resonant actuators (LRAs) may be employed for improved haptic waveform synthesis performance. According to one feature, energy may stored in the mechanical inertia of the LRA via velocity and stiffness of the LRA via displacement and released through modulation of the relative phase of the LRAs. Phase switching and modulation techniques may be used to control more than two LRAs, and in other arrangements than a dual LRA, including, but not limited to architectures that have LRAs arranged in multiple directions in a array spanning, for example, the two dimensions of a plane, or three dimensions of physical space.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A multi-actuator vibration device, comprising: a mounting platform; a plurality of linear resonant actuators (LRAs) attached to the mounting platform, each of the plurality of linear resonant actuators having a moveable mass and an axis of vibration in accordance with a direction of movement of the moveable mass, the axes of vibration of the plurality of actuators being arranged in a same direction; and a controller coupled to each of the plurality of linear resonant actuators, the controller being configured to: convert a representation of an input waveform to a combined output waveform on the mounting platform, by: (a) making a determination a common forcing frequency, f0; (b) controlling each actuator in the plurality to impart a periodic vibration force of frequency, f0, onto the mounting platform; and (c) varying a relative phase angle between at least one pair of the plurality of linear resonant actuators to control, in whole or in part, the combined output waveform; wherein the multi-actuator vibration device has one or more properties including: a faster amplitude response than any one of the plurality of linear resonant actuators, a larger amplitude response than any one of the plurality of linear resonant actuators, or a capability to temporarily conserve energy in the plurality of linear resonant actuators while a sum of the vibration waveforms of the plurality of linear resonant actuators is zero.
2. The multi-actuator vibration device of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to vary the relative phase angle between the at least one pair of the plurality of linear resonant actuators to simultaneously advance the phase angle of one LRA of the at least one pair by a first selected amount and retard the phase angle of the other LRA of the at least one pair by the first selected amount.
3. The multi-actuator vibration device of claim 1, wherein the periodic vibration force has a sinusoidal waveform.
4. The multi-actuator vibration device of claim 1, wherein a waveform of the periodic vibration force includes at least two harmonics of the frequency, f0.
5. The multi-actuator vibration device of claim 1, wherein the faster amplitude response is achieved, in whole or in part, by rapidly switching the relative phase angle from a first phase angle to a second phase angle.
6. The multi-actuator vibration device of claim 1, wherein the larger amplitude response is achieved, in whole or in part, by controlling the relative phase angle.
7. The multi-actuator vibration device of claim 1, wherein the capability to temporarily conserve energy in the plurality of linear resonant actuators while the sum of their vibration waveforms is zero, in whole or in part, by controlling the relative phase angle.
8. The multi-actuator vibration device of claim 1, wherein the controller comprises one or more of: a microprocessor, a microcontroller, a single-core processor, a multi-core processor, a Field Programmable Gate Array ("FPGA"), or a Digital Signal Processor ("DSP").
9. The multi-actuator vibration device of claim 1, wherein the vibration device is configured to be powered by a battery.
10. The multi-actuator vibration device of claim 1, wherein at least two of the plurality of LRAs are arranged in a coaxial tandem configuration.
11. The multi-actuator vibration device of claim 1, wherein at least two of the plurality of LRAs are arranged in a parallel adjacent configuration.
12. The multi-actuator vibration device of claim 1, wherein the vibration device is configured to convey haptic sensations.
13. The multi-actuator vibration device of claim 1, wherein said vibration device is configured to convey haptic guidance for personal navigation.
14. The multi-actuator vibration device of claim 1, wherein the multi-actuator vibration device is configured to convey haptic sensations to one or more selected from a group consisting of: a vehicle, a steering mechanism for a vehicle, a seat for a vehicle, a touch panel, one or both handlebar grips of a bicycle, or one or both handlebar grips of a motorcycle.
15. The multi-actuator vibration device of claim 1, wherein the multi-actuator vibration device is configured to convey haptic sensations to one or more selected from a group consisting of: a game controller, a motion game controller, a handheld game console, or a remote control.
16. The multi-actuator vibration device of claim 1, wherein the multi-actuator vibration device is configured to convey haptic sensations to one or more selected from the group consisting of: a pair of eyeglasses, a wristband, a wristwatch, a belt, an armband, a leg band, a mobile phone, a tablet computer, a device for aiding a vision-impaired person, a device for aiding a hearing-impaired person, a device for augmenting reality with haptic feedback, or a vibration device used to convey a telepresence.
17. The multi-actuator vibration device of claim 1, wherein the multi-actuator vibration device is configured to convey haptic sensations to one or more selected from the group consisting of: a glove, running shoes, a hat, a vest, or a wearable garment.
18. The integrated vibration module of claim 1, wherein the multi-actuator vibration device is configured to produce haptic sensations for a personal pleasure device.
19. A multi-actuator coherent vibration device, comprising: a mounting platform; a plurality of linear resonant actuators (LRAs) attached to the mounting platform, each of the plurality of linear resonant actuators having a moveable mass and an axis of vibration in accordance with a direction of movement of the moveable mass, the axes of vibration of the plurality of actuators being arranged in a same direction; and a controller coupled to each of the plurality of actuators, the controller being configured to: convert a representation of an input waveform to a combined output waveform on the mounting platform, by: (a) decomposing the representation of the input waveform into a set of similar component waveforms; (b) controlling the plurality of linear resonant actuators to output the set of component waveforms as a coherent group; and (c) varying a relative phase angle between at least one pair of the plurality of linear resonant actuators to control, in whole or in part, the combined output waveform; wherein the multi-actuator vibration device has one or more properties including: a faster amplitude response than any one of the plurality of linear resonant actuators, a larger amplitude response than any one of the plurality of linear resonant actuators, or a capability to temporarily conserve energy in the plurality of linear resonant actuators while a sum of the vibration waveforms of the plurality of linear resonant actuators is zero.
20. The multi-actuator coherent vibration device of claim 19, wherein the controller is configured to vary the relative phase angle between the at least one pair of the plurality of linear resonant actuators to simultaneously advance the phase angle of one LRA the at least one pair by a first selected amount and retard the phase angle of the other LRA of the at least one pair by the first selected amount.
21. The multi-actuator coherent vibration device of claim 19, wherein the periodic vibration force has a sinusoidal waveform.
22. The multi-actuator coherent vibration device of claim 19, wherein a waveform of the periodic vibration force includes at least two harmonics of a selected frequency, f0.
23. The multi-actuator coherent vibration device of claim 19, wherein the faster amplitude response is achieved, in whole or in part, by rapidly switching the relative phase angle from a first phase angle to a second phase angle.
24. The multi-actuator coherent vibration device of claim 19, wherein the larger amplitude response is achieved, in whole or in part, by controlling the relative phase angle.
25. The multi-actuator coherent vibration device of claim 19, wherein the capability to temporarily conserve energy in said plurality of linear resonant actuators while the sum of their vibration waveforms is zero, in whole or in part, by controlling the relative phase angle.
</claims>
</document>
