<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/57,G06K9/62,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAIDU USA
BAIDU USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG, HAICHAO
WANG, JIANYU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74058595
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DEFENSE AGAINST ADVERSARIAL ATTACKS USING FEATURE SCATTERING-BASED ADVERSARIAL TRAINING
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein are embodiments for a feature-scattering-based adversarial training approach for improving model robustness against adversarial attacks. Conventional adversarial training approaches leverage a supervised scheme, either targeted or non-targeted in generating attacks for training, which typically suffer from issues such as label leaking as noted in recent works. Embodiments of the disclosed approach generate adversarial images for training through feature scattering in the latent space, which is unsupervised in nature and avoids label leaking. More importantly, the presented approaches generate perturbed images in a collaborative fashion, taking the inter-sample relationships into consideration. Extensive experiments on different datasets compared with state-of-the-art approaches demonstrate the effectiveness of the presented embodiments.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implement method for generating adversarial training data for training a parameterized model comprising: given a set of clean training data, generating an initial set of perturbed training data; using the parameterized model, extracting features from the set of clean training data and the initial set of perturbed training data; calculating a transport cost matrix between features extracted from the set of clean training data and features extracted from the initial set of perturbed training data; determining a transport matrix based upon the transport cost matrix representing a matching between features in the set of clean training data and the initial set of perturbed training data; determining a feature matching distance by calculating a product between the transport cost matrix and the transport matrix as a feature matching distance between the set of clean training data and the initial set of perturbed training data; and obtaining a set of feature-scattering-based training data based on at least the determined feature matching distance.
2. The computer-implement method of claim 1 further comprising: using the parameterized model, extracting features from the set of feature-scattering-based training data; for each data sample, determining class label probabilities based upon the extracted features from the set of feature-scattering-based training data; determining a loss based upon the determined class label probabilities and a ground truth label associated with each of the data samples; and updating model parameters of the parameterized model using the determined loss.
3. The computer-implement method of claim 1 wherein the parameterized model is an image classification model, the clean training data are clean images, the perturbed training data are perturbed images.
4. The computer-implement method of claim 3 wherein the initial set of perturbed images are generated by adding random noise within a predetermined image perturbation budget to the clean images.
5. The computer-implement method of claim 3 wherein the transport cost matrix comprises a plurality of elements, with each element representing a distance between features of one clean image and one perturbed image.
6. The computer-implement method of claim 1 wherein the determined feature matching distance corresponds to a minimum feature matching distance between an empirical distribution from the set of clean training date and a perturbed empirical distribution from the initial set of perturbed training data.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein obtaining the set of feature-scattering-based training data based on at least the determined feature matching distance comprising: obtaining a gradient of the determined feature matching distance; applying a sign operator to the gradient; taking an ascent step scaled by a steps size from the initial set of perturbed training data; and projecting the initial set of perturbed training data with the ascent step to a feasible region to obtain the set of feature-scattering-based training data.
8. The computer-implement method of claim 7 wherein the gradient is with respect to the initial set of perturbed training data.
9. The computer-implement method of claim 7 wherein the step size is a predetermined perturbation budget.
10. A computer-implemented method for adversarial training an image model, the method comprising: receiving a batch of clean images and a corresponding ground-truth labels; and a perturbation budget; implementing an initialization in generating an empirical distribution from the batch of clean images and generating a perturbed empirical distribution from a perturbed batch of perturbed images, the perturbed images are initially perturbed with initial perturbation to the batch of images; in one or more iterative steps, updating the perturbed empirical distribution from the initially generated perturbed empirical distribution, by maximizing a feature matching distance between the empirical distribution and the perturbed empirical distribution, and updating the perturbed images using the updated perturbed empirical distribution; and implementing one or more adversarial training steps to learn parameters of the image model using at least the updated perturbed images and the ground-truth labels.
11. The computer-implement method of claim 10 wherein the batch of clean images is randomly sample from an image dataset.
12. The computer-implement method of claim 10 wherein the initial perturbation to the batch of clean images is done by applying random perturbations within a predetermined perturbation budget.
13. The computer-implement method of claim 12 wherein the perturbed empirical distribution is initially obtained based on Dirac functions centered on each initially perturbed image and an initial uniform distribution of weight vectors.
14. The computer-implement method of claim 10 wherein the feature matching distance is an optimal transport (OT) distance.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium or media comprising one or more sequences of instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, causes the steps for generating adversarial training data for training a parameterized model to be performed comprising: generating an initial set of perturbed training data from a set of clean training data; extracting features from the set of clean training data and the initial set of perturbed training data; calculating a transport cost matrix between features extracted from the set of clean training data and features extracted from the initial set of perturbed training data; determining a transport matrix based upon the transport cost matrix representing a matching between features in the set of clean training data and the initial set of perturbed training data; determining a feature matching distance by calculating a product between the transport cost matrix and the transport matrix as a feature matching distance between the set of clean training data and the initial set of perturbed training data; and obtaining a set of feature-scattering-based training data based on at least the determined feature matching distance.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium or media of claim 15 wherein the one or more sequences of instructions further comprise: using the parameterized model, extracting features from the set of feature-scattering-based training data; for each data sample, determining class label probabilities based upon the extracted features from the set of feature-scattering-based training data; determining a loss based upon the determined class label probabilities and a ground truth label associated with each of the data samples; and updating model parameters of the parameterized model using the determined loss.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium or media of claim 16 wherein obtaining the set of feature-scattering-based training data based on at least the determined feature matching distance comprising: obtaining a gradient of the determined feature matching distance; applying a sign operator to the gradient; taking an ascent step scaled by a steps size of a predetermined perturbation budget from the initial set of perturbed training data; and projecting the initial set of perturbed training data with the ascent step to a feasible region to obtain the set of feature-scattering-based training data.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium or media of claim 17 wherein the gradient of the determined feature matching distance is respect to the initial set of perturbed training data.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium or media of claim 17 wherein the clean training data are clean images, the perturbed training data are perturbed images.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium or media of claim 19 wherein the transport cost matrix comprises a plurality of elements, with each element representing a distance between features of one clean image and one perturbed image.
</claims>
</document>
