<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/08,H04L29/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
VASSEUR, JEAN-PHILIPPE
Mermoud, Grégory
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72916558
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TRACKING OF DEVICES ACROSS MAC ADDRESS UPDATES
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a service maintains a database of media access control (MAC) addresses of devices in a network and their associated telemetry data captured from the network. The service identifies a new MAC address being used by a particular device in the network. The service matches telemetry data associated with the new MAC address with telemetry data in the database associated with another MAC address, by using the telemetry data associated with the new MAC address as input to a machine learning-based classifier. The service determines, based on the matching, that the MAC address in the database associated with the matched telemetry data has been updated to the new MAC address by the particular device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: maintaining, by a service, a database of media access control (MAC) addresses of devices in a network and their associated telemetry data captured from the network; identifying, by the service, a new MAC address being used by a particular device in the network; matching, by the service, telemetry data associated with the new MAC address with telemetry data in the database associated with another MAC address, by using the telemetry data associated with the new MAC address as input to a machine learning-based classifier; and determining, by the service and based on the matching, that the MAC address in the database associated with the matched telemetry data has been updated to the new MAC address by the particular device.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the captured telemetry data is indicative of a Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) user agent or Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) vendor class identifier.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein the captured telemetry data is indicative of an executed application or mobility pattern.
4. The method as in claim 1, wherein the service is a device classification service configured to identify a device type of a device, and wherein the method further comprises: assigning, by the service, a device type to the new MAC address, based on the service previously assigning the device type to the MAC address in the database that is associated with the matched telemetry data.
5. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: computing, by the service, a frequency of MAC address updates by the particular device; and generating, by the service, an alert when the computed frequency of MAC address updates by the particular device exceeds a predefined threshold.
6. The method as in claim 1, wherein matching telemetry data associated with the new MAC address with telemetry data in the database comprises: matching the telemetry data associated with the new MAC address with telemetry in the database associated with a plurality of MAC addresses; and selecting one of the plurality of MAC addresses as associated with the new MAC address, based on a probability score generated by the machine learning-based classifier for each match.
7. The method as in claim 1, wherein the service is a device classification service configured to identify a device type of a device, and wherein the method further comprises: disabling, by the service, tracking of MAC address updates by the particular device, based on a device type of the particular device identified by the service.
8. The method as in claim 7, wherein the device type of the particular device is used to apply an access policy to the particular device in the network.
9. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with a network; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed configured to: maintain a database of media access control (MAC) addresses of devices in a network and their associated telemetry data captured from the network; identify a new MAC address being used by a particular device in the network; match telemetry data associated with the new MAC address with telemetry data in the database associated with another MAC address, by using the telemetry data associated with the new MAC address as input to a machine learning-based classifier; and determine, based on the matching, that the MAC address in the database associated with the matched telemetry data has been updated to the new MAC address by the particular device.
10. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the captured telemetry data is indicative of a Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) user agent, Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) vendor class identifier, an executed application, or mobility pattern.
11. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the apparatus matches the telemetry data associated with the new MAC address with telemetry data in the database associated with another MAC address by: identifying, from the database, a set of MAC addresses of devices that have been inactive on the network for a threshold amount of time; and using the classifier to compare the telemetry data associated with the new MAC address to the telemetry data associated with the set of inactive MAC addresses.
12. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the apparatus provides a device classification service to the network that is configured to identify a device type of a device, and wherein the process when executed is further configured to: assign a device type to the new MAC address, based on the service previously assigning the device type to the MAC address in the database that is associated with the matched telemetry data.
13. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the apparatus matches telemetry data associated with the new MAC address with telemetry data in the database by: matching the telemetry data associated with the new MAC address with telemetry in the database associated with a plurality of MAC addresses; and selecting one of the plurality of MAC addresses as associated with the new MAC address, based on a probability score generated by the machine learning-based classifier for each match.
14. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the apparatus provides a device classification service to the network that is configured to identify a device type of a device, and wherein the process when executed is further configured to: disable tracking of MAC address updates by the particular device, based on a device type of the particular device identified by the apparatus.
15. The apparatus as in claim 14, wherein the device type of the particular device is used to apply an access policy to the particular device in the network.
16. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: compute a frequency of MAC address updates by the particular device; and generate an alert when the computed frequency of MAC address updates by the particular device exceeds a predefined threshold.
17. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing program instructions that cause a service to execute a process comprising: maintaining, by the service, a database of media access control (MAC) addresses of devices in a network and their associated telemetry data captured from the network; identifying, by the service, a new MAC address being used by a particular device in the network; matching, by the service, telemetry data associated with the new MAC address with telemetry data in the database associated with another MAC address, by using the telemetry data associated with the new MAC address as input to a machine learning-based classifier; and determining, by the service and based on the matching, that the MAC address in the database associated with the matched telemetry data has been updated to the new MAC address by the particular device.
18. The computer-readable medium as in claim 17, wherein the captured telemetry data is indicative of a Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) user agent, Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) vendor class identifier, an executed application, or mobility pattern.
19. The computer-readable medium as in claim 17, further comprising: computing, by the service, a frequency of MAC address updates by the particular device; and generating, by the service, an alert when the computed frequency of MAC address updates by the particular device exceeds a predefined threshold.
20. The computer readable medium as in claim 18, wherein the service is a device classification service configured to identify a device type of a device, and wherein the method further comprises: disabling, by the service, tracking of MAC address updates by the particular device, based on a device type of the particular device identified by the service.
</claims>
</document>
