<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/11,A61B5/22,G06F3/01,G06T19/00,G16H20/30,G16H80/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CTRL-LABS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ASTOLFI, MICHAEL
AWAD, LANA
BERENZWEIG, ADAM
OSBORN, CHRISTOPHER
REMALEY, MASON
SUSU-MAGO, ARIELLE
WETMORE, DANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70052321
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USE OF NEUROMUSCULAR SIGNALS TO PROVIDE ENHANCED INTERACTIONS WITH PHYSICAL OBJECTS IN AN AUGMENTED REALITY ENVIRONMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Computerized systems, methods, kits, and computer-readable media storing code for implementing the methods are provided for interacting with a physical object in an augmented reality (AR) environment generated by an AR system. One such system includes: a plurality of neuromuscular sensors able to sense a plurality of neuromuscular signals from a user, and at least one computer processor. The neuromuscular sensors are arranged on one or more wearable devices worn by the user to sense the neuromuscular signals. The at least one computer processor is or are programmed to: determine, based at least in part, on the neuromuscular signals sensed by the neuromuscular sensors, information about an interaction of the user with the physical object in the AR environment generated by the AR system; and instruct the AR system to provide feedback based, at least in part, on the information about the interaction of the user with the physical object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computerized system for interacting with a physical object in an augmented reality (AR) environment generated by an AR system, the computerized system comprising: a plurality of neuromuscular sensors configured to sense a plurality of neuromuscular signals from a user, wherein the plurality of neuromuscular sensors are arranged on one or more wearable devices worn by the user to sense the plurality of neuromuscular signals; and at least one computer processor programmed to: determine, based at least in part, on the plurality of neuromuscular signals sensed by the plurality of neuromuscular sensors, information relating to an interaction of the user with the physical object in the AR environment generated by the AR system; and instruct the AR system to provide feedback based, at least in part, on the information relating to the interaction of the user with the physical object.
2. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computer processor is further programmed to instruct the AR system to display at least one visual indicator on the physical object in the AR environment.
3. The computerized system of claim 2, wherein the at least one computer processor determines the information relating to the interaction of the user with the physical object based, at least in part, on an interaction of the user with the at least one visual indicator displayed on the physical object.
4. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computer processor instructs the AR system to provide the feedback to the user.
5. The computerized system of claim 4, wherein the at least one computer processor instructs the AR system to provide the feedback as visual feedback to the user within the AR environment.
6. The computerized system of claim 5, wherein the at least one computer processor instructs the AR system to provide the visual feedback to the user within the AR environment as a change in at least one property of at least one visual indicator displayed by the AR system.
7. The computerized system of claim 5, wherein the at least one computer processor instructs the AR system to provide the visual feedback to the user within the AR environment as a display of at least one new visual indicator associated with the physical object within the AR environment.
8. The computerized system of claim 4, wherein the at least one computer processor instructs the AR system to provide the feedback to the user as audio feedback, or electrical stimulation feedback, or audio feedback and electrical stimulation feedback.
9. The computerized system of claim 4, wherein the feedback provided to the user comprises an indication of an amount of force applied to the physical object by the user, and wherein the amount of force is determined based, at least in part, on the plurality of neuromuscular signals.
10. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computer processor instructs the AR system to provide the feedback as a change in at least one function of the physical object when the at least one function is used within the AR environment.
11. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the information relating to the interaction of the user with the physical object comprises information that the user has interacted with a particular physical object, and wherein the at least one computer processor instructs the AR system to provide the feedback as a modification of at least one interaction property of the particular physical object, and as an indication of the modification to the user.
12. The computerized system of claim 11, wherein the modification of the at least one interaction property of the particular physical object comprises an enablement of at least one virtual control associated with the particular physical object.
13. The computerized system of claim 12, wherein the at least one computer processor is programmed to disable the at least one virtual control associated with the particular physical object in response to receiving input from the user.
14. The computerized system of claim 13, wherein the at least one virtual control associated with the particular physical object is disabled by the at least one computer processor based, at least in part, on the plurality of neuromuscular signals.
15. The computerized system of claim 11, wherein the particular physical object comprises a writing implement, and wherein the modification of the at least one interaction property comprises activation of a set of augmented features for the writing implement.
16. The computerized system of claim 15, wherein the set of augmented features includes features that enable the user to interact with the writing implement in one or more ways to change one or more writing characteristics of the writing implement in the AR environment.
17. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein: functions of the physical object in the AR environment are controlled by a set of virtual controls, and the at least one computer processor is programmed to instruct the AR system, based at least in part on the plurality of neuromuscular signals, to perform any one or any combination of: an activation of the set of virtual controls, a deactivation of the set of virtual controls, and a modification of the set of virtual controls.
18. The computerized system of claim 17, wherein the plurality of neuromuscular signals comprises signals arising from a gesture performed by the user, the gesture comprising any one or any combination of: a static gesture, a dynamic gesture, a covert gesture, a muscular activation state, and a sub-muscular activation state.
19. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the AR environment includes a plurality of physical objects, wherein each of the plurality of physical objects is associated with a set of control actions, and wherein the at least one computer processor is programmed to: identify the physical object with which the user is interacting within the AR environment, and activate a corresponding set of control actions associated with the identified physical object.
20. The computerized system of claim 19, wherein the feedback comprises a visual display within the AR environment, the visual display indicating the activated set of control actions.
21. The computerized system of claim 19 wherein the at least one computer processor is programmed to determine the information relating to the interaction of the user with the physical object based, at least in part, on the activated set of control actions.
22. The computerized system of claim 19, wherein the at least one computer processor: determines the information relating to the interaction of the user with the physical object based, at least in part, on an output of an inference model to which the plurality of neuromuscular signals, or information derived from the plurality of neuromuscular signals, or the plurality of neuromuscular signals and the information derived from the plurality of neuromuscular signals are provided as input, and prior to the output of the inference model being rendered, provides to the inference model information about the identified physical object, or information associated with the activated set of control actions, or the information about the identified physical object and the information associated with the activated set of control actions.
23. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the AR environment includes a plurality of physical objects, wherein each of the plurality of physical objects is associated with a set of control actions, and wherein the at least one computer processor is programmed to instruct the AR system to: select a particular physical object of the plurality of physical objects for active control in the AR environment, based at least in part on the plurality of neuromuscular signals; and activate a corresponding set of control actions associated with the particular physical object.
24. The computerized system of claim 23, wherein the plurality of neuromuscular signals comprises signals arising from a gesture performed by the user, the gesture comprising any one or any combination of: a static gesture, a dynamic gesture, a covert gesture, a muscular activation state, and a sub-muscular activation state.
25. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computer processor is programmed to modify an operation of the AR system based, at least in part, on the information relating to the interaction of the user with the physical object.
26. The computerized system of claim 25, wherein the at least one computer processor modifies the operation of the AR system by instructing the AR system to enter a higher-precision mode for detecting finer-grained interactions of the user with the physical object.
27. The computerized system of claim 26, wherein, when in the higher-precision mode, the AR system uses a greater weight for the plurality of neuromuscular signals than a weight used for auxiliary signals from at least one auxiliary sensor, to determine the information relating to the interaction of the user with the physical object.
28. A method performed by a computerized system for enabling a user to interact with a physical object in an augmented reality (AR) environment generated by an AR system based, at least in part, on neuromuscular signals, the method comprising: obtaining a plurality of neuromuscular signals from a user using a plurality of neuromuscular sensors arranged on one or more wearable devices worn by the user to sense the plurality of neuromuscular signals; determining, using at least one computer processor coupled to a memory storing code executed by the at least one computer processor, based at least in part on the plurality of neuromuscular signals, information relating to an interaction of the user with the physical object in the AR environment generated by the AR system; and instructing, using the at least one computer processor, the AR system to provide feedback based, at least in part, on the information relating to the interaction of the user with the physical object.
29. A non-transitory computer-readable medium encoded with a plurality of instructions that, when executed by at least one computer processor, causes the at least computer processor to perform a method for enabling a user to interact with a physical object in an augmented reality (AR) environment generated by an AR system based, at least in part, on neuromuscular signals, the method comprising: receiving, as input, a plurality of neuromuscular signals obtained from a user via a plurality of neuromuscular sensors arranged on one or more wearable devices worn by the user to sense the plurality of neuromuscular signals; determining, based at least in part, on the plurality of neuromuscular signals, information relating to an interaction of the user with the physical object in the AR environment generated by the AR system; and instructing the AR system to provide feedback based, at least in part, on the information relating to the interaction of the user with the physical object.
30. A kit for controlling an augmented reality (AR) system, the kit comprising: a wearable device comprising a plurality of neuromuscular sensors configured to sense a plurality of neuromuscular signals of a user; and a non-transitory computer-readable medium encoded with a plurality of instructions that, when executed by at least one computer processor, causes the at least one computer processor to perform a method for enabling a user to interact with a physical object in an AR environment generated by the AR system, the method comprising: receiving, as input, the plurality of neuromuscular signals sensed from the user by the plurality of neuromuscular sensors; determining, based at least in part on the plurality of neuromuscular signals, information relating to an interaction of the user with the physical object in the AR environment generated by the AR system; and instructing the AR system to provide feedback based, at least in part, on the information relating to the interaction of the user with the physical object.
</claims>
</document>
