<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/23,G06F21/10,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NTT (NIPPON TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
YOSHIOKA, OSAMU
KAWANISHI, Takahito
KITAHARA, Ryo
MUTO, Hiroko
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68061141
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ILLEGAL CONTENT SEARCH DEVICE, ILLEGAL CONTENT SEARCH METHOD, AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
An illegitimate content search device 10 according to the present invention includes a previously detected illegitimate content removing unit 19 configured to detect, based on profiles of pieces of possible content, which are possibly the illegitimate content, presumed illegitimate content, which is content whose profile is identical to a profile of previously detected illegitimate content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-7. (canceled)
8. A computer-implemented method for determining illegitimate content, the method comprising: receiving at least one candidate of illegitimate content; receiving a piece of previously identified illegitimate content; identifying, based on a profile of the at least one candidate of illegitimate content, a piece of presumed illegitimate content, wherein a first profile of the piece of presumed illegitimate content is within a predetermined degree of identicalness to a second profile of the piece of previously identified illegitimate content, and wherein the illegitimate content relates to content posted by an unauthorized user without a legitimate rights to legitimate content; excluding the identified piece of presumed illegitimate content from the at least one candidate of illegitimate content for generating a set of at least one of content for comparing to a piece of legitimate content; and generating, based on the comparison between the at least one of content and the piece of legitimate content, a set of illegitimate content.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, the method further comprising: removing the identified piece of presumed illegitimate content from the at least one candidate of illegitimate content as a target set of content for a comparison, wherein the comparison relates to comparing the target set of content and the piece of legitimate content.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein profiles of the at least one candidate of illegitimate content and the piece of previously identified illegitimate content respectively include one or more thumbnail images, and the method further comprising: comparing a thumbnail image of the at least one candidate of illegitimate content and a thumbnail image of the previously identified illegitimate content; determining, based on the comparison of the first thumbnail image and the second thumbnail image, a degree of identicalness among the at least one candidate of illegitimate content and the previously identified illegitimate content; and generating, based on the determined degree of identicalness, a set of illegitimate content based on the at least one candidate of illegitimate content.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, the method further comprising: identifying one or more thumbnail images in a profile of the previously identified illegitimate content, wherein each of the one or more thumbnail image is distinct from and within a degree of similarity with a thumbnail image in the profile; and excluding the identified one or more thumbnail images from a set of target thumbnail images for comparing with a set of thumbnail images in the profiles of the at least one candidate of illegitimate content.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, the method further comprising: storing the profile of the previously identified illegitimate content in a database; and updating, based on the determined set of illegitimate content, the database.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, the method further comprising: identifying, based on a threshold of difference between a first profile of one of the at least one candidate of illegitimate content and a second profile of the previously identified illegitimate content, the piece of presumed illegitimate content.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, the method further comprising: determining the piece of presumed illegitimate content as another piece of illegitimate content without performing a comparison of data between the piece of presumed illegitimate content and the piece of legitimate content.
15. A system for determining illegitimate content, the system comprises: a processor; and a memory storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the system to: receive at least one candidate of illegitimate content; receive a previously identified illegitimate content; identify, based on a profile of the at least one candidate of illegitimate content, a piece of presumed illegitimate content, wherein a first profile of the piece of presumed illegitimate content is within a predetermined degree of identicalness to a second profile of the piece of previously identified illegitimate content, and wherein the illegitimate content relates to content posted by an unauthorized user without a legitimate rights to legitimate content; exclude the identified piece of presumed illegitimate content from the at least one candidate of illegitimate content for generating a set of a plurality of content for comparing to a piece of legitimate content; and generate, based on the comparison between the plurality of content and the piece of legitimate content, a set of illegitimate content.
16. The system of claim 16, the computer-executable instructions when executed further causing the system to: remove the identified piece of presumed illegitimate content from the at least one candidate of illegitimate content as a target set of content for a comparison, wherein the comparison relates to comparing the target set of content and the piece of legitimate content;
17. The system of claim 16, wherein profiles of the at least one candidate of illegitimate content and the piece of previously identified illegitimate content respectively include one or more thumbnail images, and the computer-executable instructions when executed further causing the system to: compare a thumbnail images of the at least one candidate of illegitimate content and a thumbnail image of the previously identified illegitimate content; determine, based on the comparison of the first thumbnail image and the second thumbnail image, a degree of identicalness among the at least one candidate of illegitimate content and the previously identified illegitimate content; and generate, based on the determined degree of identicalness, a set of illegitimate content based on the at least one candidate of illegitimate content.
18. The system of claim 16, the computer-executable instructions when executed further causing the system to: identifying one or more thumbnail images in a profile of the previously identified illegitimate content, wherein each of the one or more thumbnail image is distinct from and within a degree of similarity with a thumbnail image in the profile; and excluding the identified one or more thumbnail images from a set of target thumbnail images for comparing with a set of thumbnail images in the profiles of the at least one candidate of illegitimate content.
19. The system of claim 16, the computer-executable instructions when executed further causing the system to: store the profile of the previously identified illegitimate content in a database; and update, based on the determined set of illegitimate content, the database.
20. The system of claim 16, the computer-executable instructions when executed further causing the system to: identify, based on a threshold of difference between a first profile of one of the at least one candidate of illegitimate content and a second profile of the previously identified illegitimate content, the piece of presumed illegitimate content.
21. The system of claim 16, the computer-executable instructions when executed further causing the system to: determine the piece of presumed illegitimate content as another piece of illegitimate content without performing a comparison of data between the piece of presumed illegitimate content and the piece of legitimate content.
22. A computer-readable non-transitory recording medium storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by a processor cause a computer system to: receive at least one candidate of illegitimate content; receive a previously identified illegitimate content; identify, based on a profile of the at least one candidate of illegitimate content, a piece of presumed illegitimate content, wherein a first profile of the piece of presumed illegitimate content is within a predetermined degree of identicalness to a second profile of the piece of previously identified illegitimate content, and wherein the illegitimate content relates to content posted by an unauthorized user without a legitimate rights to legitimate content; exclude the identified piece of presumed illegitimate content from the at least one candidate of illegitimate content for generating a set of a plurality of content for comparing to a piece of legitimate content; and generate, based on the comparison between the plurality of content and the piece of legitimate content, a set of illegitimate content.
23. The computer-readable non-transitory recording medium of claim 22, the computer-executable instructions when executed further causing the system to: remove the identified piece of presumed illegitimate content from the at least one candidate of illegitimate content as a target set of content for a comparison, wherein the comparison relates to comparing the target set of content and the piece of legitimate content;
24. The computer-readable non-transitory recording medium of claim 22, wherein profiles of the at least one candidate of illegitimate content and the piece of previously identified illegitimate content respectively include one or more thumbnail images, and the computer-executable instructions when executed further causing the system to: compare a thumbnail images of the at least one candidate of illegitimate content and a thumbnail image of the previously identified illegitimate content; determine, based on the comparison of the first thumbnail image and the second thumbnail image, a degree of identicalness among the at least one candidate of illegitimate content and the previously identified illegitimate content; and generate, based on the determined degree of identicalness, a set of illegitimate content based on the at least one candidate of illegitimate content.
25. The computer-readable non-transitory recording medium of claim 22, the computer-executable instructions when executed further causing the system to: identifying one or more thumbnail images in a profile of the previously identified illegitimate content, wherein each of the one or more thumbnail image is distinct from and within a degree of similarity with a thumbnail image in the profile; and excluding the identified one or more thumbnail images from a set of target thumbnail images for comparing with a set of thumbnail images in the profiles of the at least one candidate of illegitimate content.
26. The computer-readable non-transitory recording medium of claim 22, the computer-executable instructions when executed further causing the system to: store the profile of the previously identified illegitimate content in a database; and update, based on the determined set of illegitimate content, the database.
27. The computer-readable non-transitory recording medium of claim 22, the computer-executable instructions when executed further causing the system to: identify, based on a difference between a first profile of one of the at least one candidate of illegitimate content and a second profile of the previously identified illegitimate content, the piece of presumed illegitimate content; and determine the piece of presumed illegitimate content as another piece of illegitimate content without performing a comparison of data between the piece of presumed illegitimate content and the piece of legitimate content.
</claims>
</document>
