<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K19/06,G06Q20/04,G06Q20/32,G06Q20/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
EDWARDS, JOSHUA
MOSSOBA, MICHAEL
BENKREIRA, ABDELKADER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73264044
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION WITH VARIABLE MESSAGES USING ENCRYPTED QUICK RESPONSE CODES
</title>

<abstract>
A first client device can be in communication with a server. The server can store in a database records associated with a first user account and a second user account. The first user can scan a code printed on an object. The first client device can read the code and transmit it to the server. The server can activate a default message when it receives the code. The first user can pass the object to a second user. The second user can scan the physical object at a second client device. The second client device can read the code and transmit it to the server. Once the server receives the code from the second client device, the server can transmit the default message from the first user account to the second user account according to a transmission plan. The second client device can display the transmitted message.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A system, comprising: a database storing account information for a first user account and a second user account, the account information comprising a first user preference and a first user history; a server in data communication with the database; and a booklet comprising one or more removable slips, each slip containing a unique payment code, wherein: each unique payment code is optically scannable, and each unique payment code is configured for association with a second account; and wherein the server is configured to: assign a payment amount and a threshold to each unique payment code, apply a machine learning model to the first user preference and first user history to determine a threshold, and assign the threshold to each unique payment code.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the payment amount for each unique payment code is predetermined.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein each unique payment code includes a predetermined message.
24. The system of claim 21, wherein each unique payment code includes an each unique payment code contains an authentication feature.
25. The system of claim 21, wherein: the booklet is divided into a standard payment section and an alternative payment section, one or more unique payment codes are included in each of the standard payment section and the alternative payment section, a first minimum payment amount is encoded into each of the one or more payment codes in the standard payment section, and a second minimum payment amount is encoded into each of the one or more payment codes in the alternative payment section
26. The system of claim 25, wherein: the one or more unique payment codes in the alternative payment section are each encoded with a different payment amount.
27. The system of claim 25, wherein: the one or more unique payment codes included in the standard payment section display a visual distinction from the one or more unique payment codes included in the alternative payment section, and the visual distinction comprises at least one selected from the group of a color, a font type, a font size, a shape, and an arrangement of information.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein each of the one or more unique payment codes included in the alternative payment section display a different visual distinction.
29. The system of claim 21, comprising a first client device and a second client device, wherein: the first client device is configured to scan at least one of the unique payment codes; upon scanning by the first client device, the at least one of the unique payment codes is associated with the first user account; the first client device is configured to transmit a signal to the server; in response to receiving the signal at the server, the server is configured to create a payment record; and in response to receiving a second signal from a second client device, the server is configured to authorize a payment from the first user account to a second account associated with the second client device.
30. A non-transitory computer-accessible medium having stored thereon computer-executable instructions, wherein, when a computer arrangement comprising a processor, a database storing account information for a first user account and a second user account, the account information comprising a first user preference and a first user history, and a transceiver executes the instructions, the computer arrangement is configured to: receive a first signal comprising a payment amount from a first client device, wherein the first signal is associated with a code; create a record for a message and associate the code and the first user account with the record; apply a machine learning model to the first user preference and the first user history to determine a threshold; associate the threshold with the record; receive a second signal from a second client device, wherein the second signal is associated with the code; associate, in response to the second signal, the second user account with the record; determine that a payment is within the threshold; update the first user account and the second user account to reflect a transmission from the first user account to the second user account, and update the first user account and the second user account to reflect a transmission of the payment from the first user account to the second user account; and transmit a first notification to the first client device to indicate whether the transmission took place and a second notification to the second client device to indicate whether the transmission took place.
31. The non-transitory computer-accessible medium of claim 30, wherein the code is optically scanned by the first client device and the second client device.
32. The non-transitory computer-accessible medium of claim 30, wherein the code is at least one selected from the group of a linear barcode, a matrix barcode, a code 11 barcode, a code 39 barcode, a code 93 barcode, a code 128 barcode, a PDF147 barcode, an interleaved 2 of 5 barcode, a codabar, a Universal Product Code barcode, a quick response code, and an image.
33. The non-transitory computer-accessible medium of claim 30, wherein: the computer arrangement is configured to associate the record with at least one condition, and the at least one condition includes at least one selected from the group of a redemption time window, an expiration time, a redemption location, a password, a security code, a security question, and a biometric authentication.
34. The non-transitory computer-accessible medium of claim 33, wherein in response to a determination that the at least one condition is not met, the computer arrangement will not update the first user account and the second user account to reflect the transmission and the transmission of payment from the first user account to the second user account.
35. The non-transitory computer-accessible medium of claim 30, wherein the computer arrangement is configured to withhold or cancel updating the first user account and the second user account to reflect the transmission and the transmission of payment from the first user account to the second user account if the transceiver receives a third signal from the first client device.
36. The non-transitory computer-accessible medium of claim 30, wherein the computer arrangement is configured to request a confirmation from the first client device prior to updating the first user account and the second user account to reflect the transmission and the transmission of payment from the first user account to the second user account.
37. The non-transitory computer-accessible medium of claim 36, wherein, upon receipt of a confirmation response, the computer arrangement will update the first user account and the second user account to reflect the transmission and the transmission of payment from the first user account to the second user account.
38. The non-transitory computer-accessible medium of claim 30, wherein the computer arrangement is configured to update the first user account and the second user account to reflect a transmission of a second payment from the first user account to the second user account upon receipt of a fourth signal including the second payment from the first client device.
39. The non-transitory computer-accessible medium of claim 38, wherein: the fourth signal is associated with the code, and the fourth signal is received after the first signal.
40. A system, comprising: a booklet comprising one or more removable slips, each slip containing a unique payment code, wherein the payment code is optically scannable, wherein: each unique payment code is configured for association with a second account when optically scanned, and each unique payment code is configured to be assigned a first payment amount and a threshold determined by applying a machine learning model to a first user preference and a first user history associated with a user account.
</claims>
</document>
