<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
INAGAKI, TAKESHI
Minami, Aya
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72917275
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ADJUSTING TRAINING DATA FOR A MACHINE LEARNING PROCESSOR
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method according to one embodiment includes receiving a single instance of training data, simplifying the single instance of training data to create a single instance of simplified training data, generating a plurality of training data variants, based on the single instance of simplified training data, and training a machine learning model, utilizing the plurality of training data variants.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving a single instance of training data; simplifying the single instance of training data to create a single instance of simplified training data; generating a plurality of training data variants, based on the single instance of simplified training data; and training a machine learning model, utilizing the plurality of training data variants.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the training data includes textual data.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the training data has an associated label.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein simplifying the single instance of training data includes replacing one or more terms within the single instance of training data with a word stem.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein simplifying the single instance of training data includes replacing one or more terms within the single instance of training data with a genericized term.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein simplifying the single instance of training data includes discarding one or more terms within the single instance of training data.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein simplifying the single instance of training data includes adjusting a length of the single instance of training data.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the plurality of training data variants includes adjusting the single instance of training data in a plurality of different ways, where each adjustment results in one of the plurality of training data variants.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the plurality of training data variants includes changing an order of words within the single instance of simplified training data to create one of the plurality of training data variants.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the plurality of training data variants includes substituting a first word within the single instance of simplified training data with a second word determined to be similar to the first word.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of training data variants are given a same associated label as the single instance of training data.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of training data variants are input into the machine learning model to train the machine learning model.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model is an artificial neural network (ANN).
14. A computer program product for adjusting training data for a machine learning processor, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: receiving, by the processor, a single instance of training data; simplifying, by the processor, the single instance of training data to create a single instance of simplified training data; generating, by the processor, a plurality of training data variants, based on the single instance of simplified training data; and training, by the processor, a machine learning model, utilizing the plurality of training data variants.
15. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the training data includes textual data.
16. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the training data has an associated label.
17. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein simplifying the single instance of training data includes replacing, by the processor, one or more terms within the single instance of training data with a word stem.
18. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein simplifying the single instance of training data includes replacing, by the processor, one or more terms within the single instance of training data with a genericized term.
19. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein simplifying the single instance of training data includes discarding, by the processor, one or more terms within the single instance of training data.
20. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein simplifying the single instance of training data includes adjusting, by the processor, a length of the single instance of training data.
21. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein generating the plurality of training data variants includes adjusting, by the processor, the single instance of training data in a plurality of different ways, where each adjustment results in one of the plurality of training data variants.
22. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein generating the plurality of training data variants includes changing, by the processor, an order of words within the single instance of simplified training data to create one of the plurality of training data variants.
23. A system, comprising: a processor; and logic integrated with the processor, executable by the processor, or integrated with and executable by the processor, the logic being configured to: receive a single instance of training data; simplify the single instance of training data to create a single instance of simplified training data; generate a plurality of training data variants, based on the single instance of simplified training data; and train a machine learning model, utilizing the plurality of training data variants.
24. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving an instance of data; simplifying the instance of data to create an instance of simplified data; applying the instance of simplified data to a trained machine learning model; and receiving a label prediction for the instance of simplified data from the trained machine learning model.
25. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving a single instance of training data; simplifying the single instance of training data to create a single instance of simplified training data; generating a plurality of training data variants, based on the single instance of simplified training data; training a machine learning model, utilizing the plurality of training data variants; receiving an instance of input data; simplifying the instance of input data to create an instance of simplified input data; applying the instance of simplified input data into the trained machine learning model; and receiving a label prediction for the instance of simplified input data from the trained machine learning model.
</claims>
</document>
