<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STMICROELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALESSI, ENRICO ROSARIO
PASSANITI, FABIO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64316915
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD OF OPERATING GAS SENSORS AND CORRESPONDING DEVICE, SENSOR AND PROGRAM PRODUCT
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes applying heat to a metal oxide sensing element of a gas sensor, varying the heat applied to the metal oxide sensing element for at least a time interval, and measuring an electrical resistance of the metal oxide sensing element versus variation of the heat for a time interval. The measurement of electrical resistance of the metal oxide sensing element versus variation of the heat applied to the metal oxide sensing element is compared to a set of corresponding reference measurements associated with a plurality of different target gases. A further sensor parameter versus the variation of electrical resistance and variation of the heat applied is measured to obtain a three-dimensional trajectory corresponding to variation of the sensor resistance, the variation of said heat and the variation of the further sensor parameter. This comparing includes comparing the trajectory in three dimensions to a set of reference three-dimensional objects
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: applying heat by a heater to a metal oxide sensing element of a gas sensor; varying the heat applied by said heater to said metal oxide sensing element for at least a time interval; measuring at least an electrical resistance of said metal oxide sensing element of the gas sensor versus said variation of the heat applied to the metal oxide sensing element for a time interval, the measuring including measuring a further sensor parameter versus the variation of said electrical resistance of said metal oxide sensing element and said variation of the heat applied to the metal oxide sensing element to obtain a trajectory in three dimensions corresponding to variation of said sensor resistance, variation of said heat, and variation of said further sensor parameter; and comparing said measurement of at least the electrical resistance of said metal oxide sensing element versus said variation of the heat applied to the metal oxide sensing element to a set of corresponding reference measurements associated with a plurality of different target gases, wherein said comparing operation includes comparing said trajectory in three dimensions to a set of reference three-dimensional objects represented according to the same three dimensions corresponding to variation of said sensor resistance, variation of said heat, and variation of said further sensor parameter.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said further sensor parameter is proportional to a gas concentration.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein said measuring to obtain the trajectory in three dimensions comprises: acquiring as said further sensor parameter a value of the electrical resistance before said time interval during which said variation of the heat is applied to said metal oxide sensing element; and during said time interval, measuring the electrical resistance versus a variation of a heating current applied to the heater.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said variation of the heat in said time interval includes a sinusoidal modulation of the heat.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein said set of reference three-dimensional objects are obtained by a previous characterization phase comprising measuring the electrical resistance of the gas sensor at different levels of concentration at selected operating conditions.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said comparing said trajectory in three dimensions to the set of reference three-dimensional objects comprises recognizing said trajectory on a surface of one of the three-dimensional objects in the set of reference three-dimensional objects.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein comparing said trajectory comprises comparing said trajectory through at least one of statistical methods, an expert system, or an Artificial Neural Network.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: measuring a gas sensor resistance; measuring a variation in time of said gas sensor resistance; and when a variation in time of said gas sensor resistance identifies a transient phase and a subsequent new stationary phase representative of a change in gas concentration, performing at least measuring said trajectory and comparing said trajectory in three dimensions to the set of reference three-dimensional objects.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising checking if the variation of the sensor resistance in the subsequent new stationary phase with respect to the previous stationary phase is greater than a given value.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein, once a target gas is recognized, controlling an actuation system based on the recognized target gas.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising at least one of: driving the gas sensor in order to make the gas sensor be more sensitive to the recognized gas; or driving the gas sensor in order to make the gas sensor be less sensitive to the recognized gas.
12. A device, comprising: a sensor the sensor including a sensing element configured to produce a sensing signal indicative of sensed entity and including a power node to receive electrical power; and a circuit including: an input node coupled to the sensor to receive the sensing signal; a power node coupled to the power node of the sensor; and processing circuitry coupled to the input node and the power node, the processing circuitry configured to: apply current to the power node to generate heat that is applied to the sensing element; vary the current to control the heat applied to the sensing element, the current being varied for a first time; measure an electrical resistance of the sensing element as a function of the variation of the heat applied to the sensing element for a second time interval, where a further sensor parameter as a function of the variation of said electrical resistance is measured as a function of said variation of the heat applied to the sensing element to obtain a trajectory in three dimensions corresponding to variation of said sensor resistance, variation of said heat, and variation of said further sensor parameter; compare said measurement of the electrical resistance as a function of said variation of the heat applied to the sensing element to a set of corresponding reference measurements associated with a plurality of different target gases, and to compare said trajectory in three dimensions to a set of reference three-dimensional objects represented according to three dimensions corresponding to variation of said sensor resistance, variation of said heat, and variation of said further sensor parameter.
13. The device of claim 12, wherein said further sensor parameter is proportional a concentration of a gas in which the sensor is present.
14. The device of claim 12, wherein the processing circuit is further configured to sinusoidally modulate the heat applied to the sensing element.
15. The device of claim 12, wherein the processing circuit is configured to execute an Artificial Neural Network.
16. A computer program product, loadable in the memory of processing circuitry, the computer program product including software code portions which, when the computer program product is executed on the processing circuitry, cause the processing circuitry to carry out the operations of: applying heat by a heater to a metal oxide sensing element of a gas sensor; varying the heat applied by said heater to said metal oxide sensing element for at least a time interval; measuring at least an electrical resistance of said metal oxide sensing element of the gas sensor versus said variation of the heat applied to the metal oxide sensing element for a time interval, the measuring including measuring a further sensor parameter versus the variation of said electrical resistance of said metal oxide sensing element and said variation of the heat applied to the metal oxide sensing element to obtain a trajectory in three dimensions corresponding to variation of said sensor resistance, variation of said heat, and variation of said further sensor parameter; and comparing said measurement of at least the electrical resistance of said metal oxide sensing element versus said variation of the heat applied to the metal oxide sensing element to a set of corresponding reference measurements associated with a plurality of different target gases, wherein said comparing operation includes comparing said trajectory in three dimensions to a set of reference three-dimensional objects represented according to the same three dimensions corresponding to variation of said sensor resistance, variation of said heat, and variation of said further sensor parameter.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein said further sensor parameter is proportional to a gas concentration in which the gas sensor is immersed.
18. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the computer program product further includes software code portions which, when the computer program product is executed on the processing circuitry, cause the processing circuitry to carry out the measuring to obtain the trajectory in three dimensions by performing the operations of: acquiring as said further sensor parameter a value of the electrical resistance before said time interval during which said variation of the heat is applied to said metal oxide sensing element; and during said time interval, measuring the electrical resistance versus a variation of a heating current applied to the heater.
19. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the computer program product further includes software code portions which, when the computer program product is executed on the processing circuitry, cause the processing circuitry to carry out varying the heat applied by said heater to said metal oxide sensing element for at least a time interval by sinusoidally modulating the heat.
20. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the computer program product further includes software code portions which, when the computer program product is executed on the processing circuitry, cause the processing circuitry to carry out: driving the gas sensor to make the gas sensor more sensitive to a recognized gas; or driving the gas sensor to make the gas sensor less sensitive to the recognized gas.
</claims>
</document>
