<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06F21/44,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CA
</assignee>

<inventors>
SEGU, MURALI KRISHNA
VARANASI, CHANDRA SEKHAR
TIRUVAIPETA, VINAY KUMAR
VARANJANI, JEETENDRA GOPAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70052325
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUGMENTED PUSH AUTHENTICATION
</title>

<abstract>
To increase the effectiveness of push authentication, a push authentication can be augmented with another authentication factor. A push authentication can be augmented with the "what you know" factor, effectively merging the "what you know" factor into the "what you have" factor. Using a collection of "what you know" factor queries (e.g., knowledge-based questions), an authentication server can select a subset of the "what you know" factor queries and incorporate the selected one or more factor queries into a message that conveys the push authentication notification.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining that push authentication is indicated for a protected resource in response to receipt, by an authentication server from a first device, of an access request with a first authentication credential; determining an identifier of a second device that has been registered for the push authentication for the protected resource; selecting a first knowledge-based question from a plurality of knowledge-based questions for which answers have been previously collected and are associated with the first authentication credential; constructing a first payload comprising the first knowledge-based question and program code indicating how to present the first knowledge-based question in a user interface of an authentication application on the second device; constructing a push authentication message comprising the first payload and an identifier for the authentication application; and transmitting the push authentication message to the second device.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising extracting a first answer to the first knowledge-based question from a second payload of a response message from the second device and determining that the response message is from the first device and that the first answer matches a correct answer to the first knowledge-based question, wherein the correct answer to the first knowledge-based question is one of the answers previously collected.
3. The method of claim 2 further comprising successfully authenticating the first authentication credential based on determining that the first answer matches the correct answer and that the response message is from the second device.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein determining that the response message is from the second device comprises determining that the response message includes a security value communicated to the second device in the push authentication message.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the security value is one of a cryptographic value generated by the authentication server and a cryptographic value generated by the authentication application and previously communicated to the authentication server.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting a first knowledge-based question from a plurality of knowledge-based questions comprises randomly selecting from the plurality of knowledge-based questions.
7. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining a plurality of incorrect answers to the first knowledge-based question, wherein constructing the first payload further comprises constructing the first payload with the plurality of incorrect answers and a correct answer and the program code to also indicate how to present the plurality of incorrect answers and the correct answer in the user interface of the authentication application.
8. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining a plurality of incorrect answers to the first knowledge-based question, wherein constructing the first payload further comprises constructing the first payload with the plurality of incorrect answers and a correct answer at a lower resolution and the program code to also indicate how to present the plurality of incorrect answers and the correct answer in the user interface of the authentication application, wherein the plurality of incorrect answers are at a same resolution as the lower resolution of the correct answer.
9. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon that are executable by a computing device to perform operations comprising: determining an identifier of a device that has been registered for push authentication corresponding to an application based on detecting a login request for the application; selecting a first question from a plurality of questions, wherein answers have been previously collected based on push authentication registration; constructing a first payload comprising the first question; constructing a message comprising the first payload and the identifier of the device that has been registered; and transmitting the message to the device.
10. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 9 further comprising constructing the message with a token to validate a response to the message.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the token corresponds to the application.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein constructing the first payload further comprises constructing the first payload with program code to indicate how to present the first question in a target application on the device and with an identifier of the target application.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 9 further comprising instructions stored thereon that are executable by a computing device to perform operations comprising determining a plurality of incorrect answers to the first question, wherein constructing the first payload further comprises constructing the first payload with the plurality of incorrect answers, a correct answer, and program code to indicate how to present the answers in a target application on the device.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 9 further comprising instructions stored thereon that are executable by a computing device to perform operations comprising: determining an answer resolution level; and determine a correct answer to the first question at the answer resolution level and incorrect answers at the answer resolution level; wherein constructing the first payload further comprises constructing the first payload with the incorrect answers and the correct answer at the answer resolution level and with program code that instructs a target application on the device how to present the answers in a user interface of the target application.
15. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein selecting a first question comprises randomly selecting from the plurality of questions.
16. An apparatus comprising: a processor; and a computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon that are executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to, determine that multi-factor authentication for a protected resource requires an augmented push authentication that merges the what you know and what you have factors; determine a registered device associated with an authentication credential indicated in login request for the protected resource; select a first question from a plurality of questions, wherein answers to the plurality of questions have been previously collected based on registration for the augmented push authentication; construct a message comprising identification of an application, the first question, and program code to indicate user interface parameters for the application to present the first question and collect an answer; and transmit the message to the registered device.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the computer-readable medium further has stored thereon instructions executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to determine a correct answer and a plurality of incorrect answers to the first question, wherein the instructions to construct the message further comprise instructions executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to construct the message with the answers and program code to indicate additional user interface parameters for the application to present the answers on the registered device.
18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the computer-readable medium further has stored thereon instructions executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: determine an answer resolution level; and determine a correct answer to the first question at the answer resolution level and incorrect answers at the answer resolution level; wherein the instructions to construct the message comprise instructions to construct the message with the incorrect answers and the correct answer at the answer resolution level and with program code that instructs the application how to present the answers in a user interface.
19. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the instructions to select a first question comprises randomly selecting from the plurality of questions.
20. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the computer-readable medium further has stored thereon instructions executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to extract a first collected answer to the first question from a response message and verify that the response message is from the registered device and that the first collected answer matches a correct answer to the first question, wherein the correct answer to the first question is one of the answers previously collected.
</claims>
</document>
