<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N5/225,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ADONI, SIDDIQUE M.
CHENNY, RAHUL
SHANMUGAM, DHANDAPANI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69639225
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated image capture system with expert guidance
</title>

<abstract>
A method, apparatus, system, and computer program product for configuring an image capture device. A target activity context for a target object in an image is received by a computer system from the image capture device. A set of photographers for the target object is identified using target activity context. The set of photographers identified is sent to the image capture device. Responsive to receiving a selection of a photographer from the set of photographers from the image capture device, an inbound activity context for the photographer for the target object is sent to the image capture device, wherein the image capture device is configured to capture the image of the target object using the inbound activity context.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for configuring an image capture device: receiving, by a computer system, a target activity context for a target object in an image from an image capture device; identifying, by the computer system, a set of photographers for the target object using target activity context; sending, by the computer system, the set of photographers identified to the image capture device; and responsive to receiving a selection of a photographer from the set of photographers from the image capture device, sending, by the computer system, an inbound activity context for the photographer for the target object to the image capture device, wherein the image capture device is configured to capture the image of the target object using the inbound activity context.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying, by the computer system, the set of photographers for the target object using target activity context comprises: identifying, by the computer system, the set of photographers for the target object using target activity context and set of activity contexts associated with the set of photographers.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying, by the computer system, the set of photographers for the target object using target activity context comprises: identifying, by the computer system, the set of photographers for the target object using target activity context and a set of prioritized attributes for the target object associated with a user of the image capture device.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein identifying, by the computer system, the set of photographers for the target object using target activity context and the set of prioritized attributes for the target object associated with a user of the image capture device comprises: identifying, by an artificial intelligence system running on the computer system, the set of photographers for the target object using target activity context and the set of prioritized attributes for the target object associated with a user of the image capture device.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising sending, by the image capture device, the target activity context for the target object in an image to the computer system; receiving, by the image capture device, a user input with the selection of the photographer from set of photographers for the target object received from the computer system; responsive to sending the selection of the photographer, receiving, image capture device, the inbound activity context for the photographer; comparing; by the image capture device, the inbound activity context with a current target activity context for the target object in the image to form a comparison; and capturing, by the image capture device, the image based on the comparison.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the inbound activity context for photographer for the target object includes photographic settings for the image capture device.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the target activity context comprises a set of target object attributes associated with the target object in the image.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein target activity context further comprises a set of ecosystem attributes for an ecosystem in the image.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the set of target object attributes is selected from at least one of a target object type, a category of the target object, a focus point of interest in the target object, a size of the target object, a distance between the target object and an image capture device, an angle between the target object and the image capture device, a view type of the target object, a shadow indicator and wherein the set of ecosystem attributes for the ecosystem is selected from at least one of a time, a light level, a location, or ecosystem object type.
10. An image capture system comprising: a computer system configured to receive a target activity context for a target object in an image from an image capture device; identify a set of photographers for the target object using target activity context; send the set of photographers identified to the image capture device; send an inbound activity context for a photographer for the target object from the set of photographers to the image capture device in response to receiving a selection of the photographer from the set of photographers from the image capture device, wherein the image capture device is configured to capture the image of the target object using the inbound activity context.
11. The image capture system of claim 10, wherein in identifying the set of photographers for the target object using target activity context, the computer system is configured to identifying the set of photographers for the target object using target activity context and set of activity contexts associated with the set of photographers.
12. The image capture system of claim 10, wherein in identifying the set of photographers for the target object using target activity context, the computer system identifies the set of photographers for the target object using target activity context and a set of prioritized attributes for the target object associated with a user of the image capture device.
13. The image capture system of claim 12, wherein identifying the set of photographers for the target object using target activity context and the set of prioritized attributes for the target object associated with a user of the image capture device, the computer system identifies the set of photographers for the target object using target activity context and the set of prioritized attributes for the target object associated with a user of the image capture device using an artificial intelligence system running on the computer system.
14. The image capture system of claim 12 further comprising: the image capture device, wherein the image capture device is configured to send the target activity context for the target object in an image to the computer system; receiving user input with the selection of the photographer from set of photographers for the target object received from the computer system; receive the inbound activity context for the photographer in response to sending the selection of the photographer; compare the inbound activity context with a current target activity context for the target object in the image to form a comparison; and capture the image based on the comparison.
15. The image capture system of claim 10, wherein the inbound activity context for photographer for the target object includes photographic settings for the image capture device.
16. The image capture system of claim 10, wherein the target activity context comprises a set of target attributes associated with the target object in the image and a set of ecosystem attributes for a set of ecosystem objects in the image.
17. A computer program product for configuring an image capture device, the computer program product comprising: a computer-readable storage media; first program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for receiving a target activity context for a target object in an image from an image capture device; second program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for identifying a set of photographers for the target object using target activity context; third program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for sending the set of photographers identified to the image capture device; and fourth program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for sending an inbound activity context for a photographer in the set of photographers for the target object to the image capture device in response to receiving a selection of a photographer from the set of photographers from the image capture device, wherein the image capture device is configured to capture the image of the target object using the inbound activity context.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the second program code comprises: program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for identifying the set of photographers for the target object using target activity context and a set of prioritized attributes for the target object associated with a user of the image capture device.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the program code comprises: program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for identifying the set of photographers for the target object using target activity context and the set of prioritized attributes for the target object associated with a user of the image capture device using an artificial intelligence system.
20. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the target activity context comprises a set of target attributes associated with the target object in the image and a set of ecosystem attributes for a set of ecosystem objects in the image.
</claims>
</document>
