<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F23N5/16,F23N5/24,F27D21/04,G06F16/21,G06N20/00,G06N5/02,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
CULLER, WYATT
KUCERA DAVID
MCDONALD, JONATHAN
STEWART, GREGORY
TAYLOR, CURTIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70458026
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FLAME ANALYTICS SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A flame analytics system that may incorporate a burner, one or more sensors at the burner, a historical database connected to the one or more sensors, a model training module connected to the historical database, and a runtime algorithm module connected to the one or more sensors and the model training module. The runtime algorithm may compare realtime data from the one or more sensors and historical data from the model training module in accordance with a machine learning algorithm. The system may further incorporate a fault detection module connected to the runtime algorithm module, a fault diagnostics module connected to the fault detection module, and an enunciator connected to the fault detection module. The one or more sensors may also include having video or acoustic sensitivity of combustion in the burner.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A flame analytics system comprising: a burner; one or more sensors at the burner; a historical database connected to the one or more sensors; a model training module connected to the historical database; and a runtime algorithm module connected to the one or more sensors and the model training module; and wherein the runtime algorithm compares realtime data from the one or more sensors and the historical data from the model training module in accordance with a machine learning algorithm.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a fault detection module connected to the runtime algorithm module; a fault diagnostics module connected to the fault detection module; and an enunciator connected to the fault detection module.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors comprise having video or acoustic sensitivity of combustion in the burner.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein: the historical database and the model training module can operate offline; and the runtime algorithm module, fault detection module, fault diagnostics module and enunciator can operate online.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the burner is an integral part of an industrial furnace.
6. The flame analytics system of claim 1, further comprising: a processor for trending one or more parameters selected from a group comprising steam pressure, fuel rate, flame strength, control state, O2 level, firing rate, lockout status, limit status, stack temperature, and flame state; and wherein one or more sensors at or about the burner are selected for detecting one or more parameters selected from a group comprising a presence of a flame, an absence of a flame, a quantitative measure of a strength of a flame, first out, control state, firing rate, fuel consumption, steam pressure, O2 level in the stack, stack temperature, flame state, flame strength, lockout status, interlock status, limit status, rate limit status, rate source, cycle count, and run time.
7. The flame analytics system of claim 1, wherein data distinguished by the runtime algorithm comprise one or more factors of a group consisting of flame shape, flame size, hot spots, spectra for CO2, water vapor, UV, IR, visible light flame fluctuations, operational state, firing rate, temperature, pressure, flow rate, value percentage opening, O2, stability of flame, burner nozzle condition, flame-out safeguard, and flame categorization.
8. The system of claim 1, further comprising: two or more video sensors having 2D views at different angles of a flame in the burner; and wherein: the 2D views are reconstructed into 3D views for observation of the flame to distinguish individual flames from one another in a multi-burner appliance or to distinguish a flame from its background; and the 3D views of a flame are processed to perform one or more analyses as selected from a group comprising measuring flame size, characterizing flame shape, detecting hot spots, detecting oscillations, fluctuations or flicker, and measuring a fundamental frequency of the flame.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein flame video analytics are combined with an audio signal from a microphone located to sense an audio signal from the flame.
10. A flame analytics system of burners comprising: combustion sensors positioned for obtaining runtime data about a burner; and a data acquisition mechanism connected to the combustion system for processing by a machine learning algorithm of the runtime data; and wherein: the machine learning algorithm receives historical data about the burner from a database, and the runtime data from the combustion sensors; and the historical data and the runtime data about the burner are compared to seek and detect burner faults.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein predictions about functionality of the burner are made based on the detected burner faults.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein: the machine learning mechanism comprises a machine learning model; and the machine learning model comprises: an air side submodel; a fuel side submodel; and a combustion submodel.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein: the air side submodel incorporates at least air flows and air pressures; the fuel side submodel incorporates at least fuel flows and fuel pressures; and the combustion submodel incorporates at least a ratio of air and fuel flows.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the combustion submodel further incorporates video data provided by one or more video sensors of a combustion process of the burner.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein: video data are post-processed before being sent to the machine learning model; an image of the post-processed video is automatically segmented in that the image is binarized using a combination of pixel values in each color channel, and a resulting binary image being divided into adjacent geometric regions; a statistical measure between the pixel values in each color channel is created for each segment of the image; and statistical measures go to the combustion submodel of the machine learning model.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the combustion submodel further incorporates acoustics data provided by one or more sound sensors detecting sounds of a combustion process in the burner.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein: acoustic data is post-processed before being sent to the machine learning model; a raw acoustic signal of acoustic data is measured; a frequency space transform is applied to the raw acoustic signal; a spectral centroid is extracted from the frequency space transform; the spectral centroid represents a center-of-mass of a frequency spectrum; and the center-of-mass contains information about the combustion process.
18. A combustion evaluation method comprising: reading data from one or more sensors of a combustion system; sending the data to a data acquisition system for machine learning processing; obtaining results from the data acquisition system; and tuning the combustion system according to the results; and wherein the combustion system is dynamically tuned for an optimal air-fuel ratio to compensate for air-fuel ratio drift.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein: the data from the one or more sensors to the data acquisition system are real time data; the data from the one or more sensors to the data acquisition system are stored as historical data in a database; model training places the historical data into machine learning models; and a runtime algorithm compares the runtime data with the machine learning models to note differences between the runtime data and data of the machine learning models.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the machine learning models use advanced pattern recognition to note deviations between the runtime data and the data of the machine learning models.
</claims>
</document>
