<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/58,G01S13/93,G01S7/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZOOX
</assignee>

<inventors>
COHEN, JOSHUA KRISER
WANG, CHUANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72236860
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RECOGNIZING RADAR REFLECTIONS USING VELOCITY INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are discussed for determining reflected returns in radar sensor data. In some instances, pairs of radar returns may be compared to one another. For example, a velocity associated with a first radar return may be projected onto a radial direction associated with a second radar return to determine a projected velocity. In some examples, the second radar return may be a reflected return if the magnitude of the projected velocity corresponds to a magnitude of the second radar return. In some instances, a vehicle, such as an autonomous vehicle, may be controlled at the exclusion of information from reflected returns.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An autonomous vehicle comprising: a radar sensor on the autonomous vehicle; one or more processors; and memory storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the autonomous vehicle to perform acts comprising: receiving, from the radar sensor, radar data of the environment, the radar data comprising: a first radar return comprising a first velocity and a first range along a first radial direction from the radar sensor; a second radar return comprising a second velocity and a second range along a second radial direction from the radar sensor; projecting, as a projected velocity, the first velocity onto a point corresponding to the second radar return; determining, based at least in part on the second velocity and the projected velocity, that the second radar return corresponds to a reflected radar return reflected off an intermediate surface; and controlling the autonomous vehicle within the environment at the exclusion of the second radar return.
2. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, wherein the projecting the first velocity comprises: determining a reflection line based at least in part on the first range on the first radial direction and the second range on the second radial direction; reflecting the first velocity from the first location to the second location about the reflection line; and determining the projected velocity as a component of the reflected velocity along the second radial direction.
3. The autonomous vehicle of claim 2, wherein determining that the second radar return corresponds to a reflected radar return comprises: comparing a first magnitude of the projected velocity to a second magnitude of the second velocity; and determining that the first magnitude is substantially equal to the second magnitude.
4. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, the acts further comprising: receiving, prior to receiving the radar data, previous radar returns associated with the object; and identifying, based at least in part on the previous radar returns, the first return as an object return associated with the object.
5. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, further comprising at least one additional sensor on the vehicle, the acts further comprising: receiving, from the at least one additional sensor, additional sensor data; and verifying, based at least in part on the additional sensor data, a presence of the intermediate object.
6. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, the acts further comprising: selecting, based at least in part on one or more of distances associated with the first return and the second return, positions associated with the first return and the second return, or velocities associated with the first return and the second return, the first return and the second return from a plurality of candidate radar returns.
7. A method comprising: capturing, by a radar sensor on a vehicle, radar data of an environment, the radar data including a plurality of radar returns; determining, based at least in a first radar return of the plurality of radar returns, a first velocity along a first radial direction extending from the vehicle; determining, based at least in part on a second radar return of the plurality of radar returns, a second velocity along a second direction extending from the vehicle; determining a projected velocity of the first velocity along the second direction; and determining, based at least in part on a comparison of the projected velocity and the second velocity, that the second radar return corresponds to a reflected radar return reflected off an object and an intermediate object between the object and the radar sensor.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: receiving sensor data from at least one of the radar sensor or an additional sensor; and identifying, based at least in part on the sensor data, that the first return is associated with the object in the environment.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: tracking, based at least in part on the sensor data and prior to capturing the first radar return and the second radar return, the object in the environment, wherein determining that the second return is a reflected return is further based at least in part on the tracking.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the projected velocity comprises a velocity projected onto a position corresponding to the second return along the second direction.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the determining the projected velocity comprises: determining a reflection line based at least in part on a first range associated with the first return and a second range associated with the second return; reflecting the first velocity about the reflection line to determine a reflected velocity; and determining the projected velocity as a component of the reflected velocity along the second radial direction.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising determining a reflection point as an intersection of the reflection line and a line extending between the radar sensor and the second position, the reflection point being a position associated with the intermediate object.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: receiving at least one of additional sensor data or map data; and identifying, based at least in part on the additional sensor data or the map data, the intermediate object at the reflection point.
14. The method of claim 7, wherein the first return and the second return are selected based at least in part on at least one of distances associated with the first return and the second return, positions associated with the first return and the second return, or velocities associated with the first return and the second return.
15. The method of claim 7, wherein the first return is associated with an object in the environment, and the second return is determined based at least in part on at least one of the second radar return having a second distance greater than a first distance associated with the first radar return or the second velocity being equal to or greater than a threshold velocity.
16. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed, cause one or more processors to perform operations comprising: capturing, by a radar sensor, radar data of an environment, the radar data including: a first radar return comprising a first velocity, a first direction, and a first range, and a second radar return comprising a second velocity, a second direction, and a second range; determining a projected velocity of the first velocity with respect to the second direction; and determining, based at least in part on a comparison of the projected velocity and the second velocity, that the second radar return corresponds to a reflected radar return.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 16, wherein the determining the projected velocity comprises: determining a reflection line based at least in part on the first return and the second return; reflecting the first velocity from the first position to the second position about the reflection line to determine a reflected velocity; and determining the projected velocity as a component of the reflected velocity along the second direction.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining a reflection point as a point along the second direction such that a line from the reflection point bisects a connecting line from the first point to the second point; receiving additional sensor data; determining, based at least in part on the additional sensor data, presence of a surface at the reflection point; and verifying that the second radar return corresponds to the reflected radar return.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 16, the operations further comprising: receiving sensor data from at least one of the radar sensor or an additional sensor; and determining, based at least in part on the sensor data, that the first reflected return is associated with an object in the environment.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 19, the operations further comprising: identifying one or more candidate reflection returns from the plurality of reflection returns, the one or more candidate reflection returns including the second radar return and the identifying being based at least in part on at least one of a range associated with individual of the one or more candidate reflection returns or a velocity associated with individual of the one or more candidate reflection returns.
</claims>
</document>
