<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F7/544,G06F9/30,G06N3/063,G11C16/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HWANG, YOUNG NAM
KIM, CHAN KYUNG
KIM, JIN MIN
KIM, SOON YOUNG
LEE, SANG KIL
MIN, JAE-HONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70727279
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEMORY DEVICE INCLUDING ARITHMETIC CIRCUIT AND NEURAL NETWORK SYSTEM INCLUDING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is a memory device that includes a memory bank including a plurality of memory cells arranged in a region where a plurality of word lines and a plurality of bit lines of the memory device intersect each other, a sense amplifier configured to amplify a signal transmitted through selected bit lines among the plurality of bit lines, and an arithmetic circuit configured to receive a first operand from the sense amplifier, receive a second operand from outside the memory device, and perform an arithmetic operation by using the first operand and the second operand, based on an internal arithmetic control signal generated in the memory device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A memory device comprising: a memory bank including a plurality of memory cells arranged in a region where a plurality of word lines and a plurality of bit lines of the memory device intersect each other; a sense amplifier connected to the memory bank through the plurality of bit lines and configured to amplify a signal transmitted through selected bit lines from among the plurality of bit lines; and an arithmetic circuit configured to receive a first operand from the sense amplifier, receive a second operand from outside the memory device, and perform an arithmetic operation by using the first operand and the second operand based on an internal arithmetic control signal generated in the memory device.
2. The memory device of claim 1, wherein the internal arithmetic control signal includes an internal read signal and an internal write signal.
3. The memory device of claim 2, wherein the memory device reads the first operand from the memory bank to the arithmetic circuit through a path including the sense amplifier when the arithmetic circuit receives the internal read signal.
4. The memory device of claim 2, wherein the memory device writes the second operand from outside the memory device to the arithmetic circuit through a path including a data input/output buffer of the memory device when the arithmetic circuit receives the internal write signal.
5. The memory device of claim 2, wherein the internal arithmetic control signal further includes at least one of an arithmetic operation start signal for starting the arithmetic operation of the arithmetic circuit, an arithmetic initialization signal for initializing the arithmetic circuit, and an output signal for controlling the arithmetic circuit to output calculated data.
6. The memory device of claim 5, wherein the memory device simultaneously generates two or more of the internal read signal, the internal write signal, and the arithmetic operation start signal.
7. The memory device of claim 1, wherein the internal arithmetic control signal is generated by control logic configured to control configurations of the memory device.
8. The memory device of claim 1, wherein the arithmetic circuit includes a multiplication and accumulation circuit configured to perform a multiplication operation and an accumulation operation by using the first operand and the second operand.
9. The memory device of claim 8, wherein the multiplication and accumulation circuit includes: a multiplier configured to generate multiplication data by multiplying the first operand by the second operand; a register configured to temporarily store calculation data; and an adder configured to update the calculation data by adding the multiplication data to the calculation data stored in the register.
10. The memory device of claim 8, wherein the arithmetic circuit further includes: a nonlinear function processor configured to perform nonlinear function processing on data calculated by the multiplication and accumulation circuit; and a quantizer configured to quantize the nonlinear function processed data.
11. The memory device of claim 8, wherein the arithmetic circuit includes a plurality of multiplication and accumulation circuits including the multiplication and accumulation circuit, and the plurality of multiplication and accumulation circuits are connected to each other in a ring form.
12. The memory device of claim 1, further comprising a column decoder connected to the memory bank through the plurality of bit lines and configured to perform a decoding operation to select some of the bit lines, wherein the sense amplifier includes an input/output sense amplifier connected to the column decoder through global input/output lines and configured to amplify a signal transmitted through the global input/output lines, and the arithmetic circuit is configured to receive the first operand from the input/output sense amplifier.
13. The memory device of claim 10, wherein the memory bank includes a plurality of sub memory cell arrays arranged in a matrix form along a direction of the plurality of word lines and the plurality of bit lines, the sense amplifier includes a plurality of bit line sense amplifiers, wherein each of the plurality of bit line sense amplifiers is connected to sub bit lines connected respectively to the plurality of sub memory cell arrays and is configured to amplify a signal transmitted through the sub bit lines, and the arithmetic circuit is included in the memory bank and is configured to receive the first operand from the plurality of bit line sense amplifiers.
14. A memory device comprising: at least one memory bank including a plurality of memory cells; control logic configured to generate an internal arithmetic control signal including an internal read signal based on an external arithmetic control signal received from a processor located outside the memory device; and an arithmetic circuit configured to perform all or some of a plurality of convolution operations of the processor on input feature data and kernel data, based on the internal arithmetic control signal provided by the control logic, wherein at least one of the input feature data and the kernel data is input to the arithmetic circuit from the at least one memory bank through an electrical path including a sense amplifier, based on the internal read signal generated by the control logic.
15. The memory device of claim 14, wherein the internal arithmetic control signal includes an internal write signal, and one of the input feature data and the kernel data is input to the arithmetic circuit through an electrical path including an input/output buffer of the memory device, based on the internal write signal generated by the control logic.
16. The memory device of claim 14, wherein the internal arithmetic control signal further includes at least one of an arithmetic operation start signal for starting an arithmetic operation of the arithmetic circuit, an arithmetic initialization signal for initializing the arithmetic circuit, and an output signal for controlling the arithmetic circuit to output calculated data.
17. The memory device of claim 14, wherein the control logic is further configured to control the memory device to store at least one of the input feature data and the kernel data in the memory bank by configuring an address of the memory bank to store at least one of the input feature data and the kernel data so that at least one of the input feature data and the kernel data is sequentially input to the arithmetic circuit based on the internal read signal.
18. The memory device of claim 14, wherein the memory bank comprises: a plurality of sub memory cell arrays; and bit line sense amplifiers connected to the plurality of sub memory cell arrays through sub bit lines and configured to amplify a signal transmitted through the sub bit lines, the memory device further comprises an input/output sense amplifier configured to amplify a signal transmitted through a global input/output line through a column decoder from the memory bank, and the arithmetic circuit is located in a region where the bit line sense amplifiers are arranged or in a region where the input/output sense amplifier is arranged.
19. A neural network system for performing a neural network operation, the neural network system comprising: a neural network processor configured to generate an arithmetic control signal for controlling an arithmetic operation of a memory device; and a memory device configured to generate an internal arithmetic control signal including an internal read signal based on the arithmetic control signal provided from the neural network processor, internally read at least one of input feature data and kernel data from a memory bank when the internal read signal is generated, generate calculated data by performing all or some of a plurality of convolution operations of the neural network processor by using the input feature data and the kernel data, and provide the calculated data to the neural network processor.
20. The neural network system of claim 19, wherein the internal arithmetic control signal includes an internal write signal and an arithmetic operation start signal, and the memory device includes an arithmetic circuit configured to: read any one of the input feature data and the kernel data from the memory bank through a path including a sense amplifier when the internal read signal is generated; obtain the other one of the input feature data and the kernel data through a data input/output buffer through a path excluding the memory bank when the internal write signal is generated; and perform an arithmetic operation by using the input feature data and the kernel data when the arithmetic operation start signal is generated.
</claims>
</document>
