<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, NAM JOON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67481470
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM, METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is an artificial intelligence or machine learning algorithm that may be applied to a plurality of machine learning devices in a 5G environment connected to perform the Internet of things. A machine learning method by a first learning machine according to one embodiment of the present disclosure may include obtaining input data; determining, from among a plurality of clusters, a cluster to which the input data belongs, by using a first artificial neural network; transmitting a plurality of sample features associated with the determined cluster to a second learning device using a second artificial neural network; receiving a label for the plurality of sample features from the second learning device, in response to the transmission; and associating the received label with the determined cluster.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A machine learning method, comprising: obtaining a first input data; determining, from a plurality of clusters, a cluster to which the first input data corresponds, the determination being made by processing the first input data in a first artificial neural network of a first device; transmitting a plurality of sample features associated with the determined cluster to a second artificial neural network of a second device; generating a first label corresponding to the transmitted plurality of sample features by analyzing the transmitted plurality of sample features in the second artificial neural network of the second device; transmitting the first label from the second device to the first device; and assigning the transmitted first label to the determined cluster by the first device.
2. The machine learning method of claim 1, further comprising: extracting the plurality of sample features from a plurality of features representing at least an entirety of the cluster, and wherein a variance value of the extracted plurality of sample features exceeds a predetermined threshold value.
3. The machine learning method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining a second input data; receiving a second label corresponding to the second input data; and transmitting at least one feature of the second input data and the second label from the first device to the second artificial neural network of the second device, training the second artificial neural network of the second device by using at least one feature of the second input data and the second label as input and output of the second artificial neural network respectively.
4. The machine learning method of claim 1, wherein the first device comprises a terminal, and the second device comprises a server.
5. The machine learning method of claim 1, wherein an amount of hidden layers of the second artificial neural network of the second device is larger than an amount of hidden layers of the first artificial neural network of the first device.
6. The machine learning method of claim 1, wherein the first device and the second device communicate with each other over a 5G communication network.
7. The machine learning method of claim 1, wherein the first artificial neural network of the first device performs unsupervised learning, and the second artificial neural network of the second device performs supervised learning.
8. A device configured to perform machine learning, comprising: an input unit configured to obtain a first input data; a communication unit configured to communicate with external devices; and at least one processor configured to: determine, from a plurality of clusters, a cluster to which the first input data corresponds, the determination being made by processing the first input data in an artificial neural network of the device; transmit a plurality of sample features associated with the determined cluster to external devices through the communication unit; receive a first label for the plurality of sample features through the communication unit from external devices, in response to the transmission; and assign the received first label to the determined cluster by the device.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the received first label is generated based on analyzing the plurality of sample features in at least one external device.
10. The device of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to extract the plurality of sample features from a plurality of features representing at least an entirety of the cluster, and wherein a variance value of the extracted plurality of sample features exceeds a predetermined threshold value.
11. The device of claim 8, wherein the input unit is further configured to obtain a second input data and a second label corresponding to the second input data, and wherein the at least one processor is further configured to transmit at least one feature of the second input data and the second label to at least one external device.
12. The device of claim 8, further comprising a terminal.
13. The device of claim 8, wherein an amount of hidden layers of an artificial neural network in at least one external device is larger than an amount of hidden layers of the artificial neural network of the device.
14. The device of claim 8, wherein the device is configured to communicate with external devices over a 5G communication network.
15. A machine learning system, comprising: a first device configured to: obtain a first input data; determine, from a plurality of clusters, a cluster to which the first input data corresponds, the determination being made by processing the first input data in a first artificial neural network of a first device; transmit a plurality of sample features associated with the determined cluster to a second artificial neural network of a second device; and assign a first label to the determined cluster by the first device; and the second device connected to the first device and configured to: generate the first label corresponding to the transmitted plurality of sample features by analyzing the transmitted plurality of sample features in the second artificial neural network of the second device; and transmit the first label from the second device to the first device.
16. The machine learning system of claim 15, wherein the first device is further configured to obtain a second input data and a second label corresponding to the second input data, and transmit at least one feature of the second input data and the second label from the first device to the second artificial neural network of the second device, and wherein the second device is further configured to train the second artificial neural network by using at least one feature of the second input data and the second label as input and output of the second artificial neural network respectively.
17. The machine learning system of claim 15, wherein the first device comprises a terminal, and the second device comprises a server.
18. The machine learning system of claim 15, wherein an amount of hidden layers of the second artificial neural network of the second device is larger than an amount of hidden layers of the first artificial neural network of the first device.
19. The machine learning system of claim 15, wherein the first device and the second device communicate with each other over a 5G communication network.
20. The machine learning system of claim 15, wherein the first artificial neural network of the first device performs unsupervised learning, and the second artificial neural network of the second device performs supervised learning.
</claims>
</document>
