<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08G1/01,H04W4/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOYOTA MOTOR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALTINTAS, ONUR
HIGUCHI, TAKAMASA
UCAR, SEYHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606382
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VEHICULAR KNOWLEDGE DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure includes embodiments for generating and distributing knowledge. In some embodiments, a method for a connected endpoint includes analyzing, on an information layer, sensor data to generate a set of information that describes one or more events that occur in a roadway environment. The method includes generating, on a knowledge layer, knowledge based on the set of information according to a standard to increase a use efficiency of one or more computational resources of the connected endpoint and to improve a capability of the connected endpoint to distribute the knowledge.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for a connected endpoint, comprising: analyzing, on an information layer, sensor data to generate a set of information that describes one or more events that occur in a roadway environment; and generating, on a knowledge layer, knowledge based on the set of information according to a standard to increase a use efficiency of one or more computational resources of the connected endpoint and to improve a capability of the connected endpoint to distribute the knowledge.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the knowledge has a common format compatible with one or more of a first group of applications on the connected endpoint and a second group of applications on one or more other endpoints and the method further comprises: distributing the knowledge from the knowledge layer to the one or more of the first group of applications on the connected endpoint via an intra-endpoint communication and the second group of applications on the one or more other endpoints via a Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) communication so that the use efficiency of the one or more computational resources of the connected endpoint is increased and the capability of the connected endpoint to distribute the knowledge is improved.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein distributing the knowledge from the knowledge layer to the second group of applications on the one or more other endpoints via the V2X communication comprises: modifying an operation of a communication unit of the connected endpoint to transmit a V2X message that includes the knowledge to the one or more other endpoints.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein generating, on the knowledge layer, the knowledge based on the set of information according to the standard comprises: applying a set of knowledge inference rules to create the knowledge based on one or more of the set of information and existing knowledge that is already created; and associating the knowledge with a set of knowledge tags.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the knowledge is distributed to the one or more of the first group of applications on the connected endpoint and the second group of applications on the one or more other endpoints based on the set of knowledge tags so that the capability of the connected endpoint to distribute the knowledge is further improved.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the set of knowledge tags includes one or more of the following: a location tag; a time tag; a content tag; and a priority tag.
7. The method of claim 4, further comprising storing the knowledge in a knowledge base based on the set of knowledge tags.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more events describe one or more answers to one or more questions about the roadway environment.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the knowledge includes digital bits that describe a fact or a belief that is extracted from analyzing one or more patterns in the set of information.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: aggregating the sensor data on the information layer based on a first set of sensor data generated by one or more sensors of the connected endpoint and a second set of sensor data received from one or more other connected endpoints via a Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) communication.
11. A system comprising: an onboard computer system of a connected endpoint including a non-transitory memory storing computer code which, when executed by the onboard computer system, causes the onboard computer system to: analyze, on an information layer, sensor data to generate a set of information that describes one or more events that occur in a roadway environment; and generate, on a knowledge layer, knowledge based on the set of information according to a standard to increase a use efficiency of one or more computational resources of the connected endpoint and to improve a capability of the connected endpoint to distribute the knowledge.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the knowledge has a common format compatible with one or more of a first group of applications on the connected endpoint and a second group of applications on one or more other endpoints and wherein the computer code, when executed by the onboard computer system, causes the onboard computer system to: distribute the knowledge from the knowledge layer to the one or more of the first group of applications on the connected endpoint via an intra-endpoint communication and the second group of applications on the one or more other endpoints via a Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) communication so that the use efficiency of the one or more computational resources of the connected endpoint is increased and the capability of the connected endpoint to distribute the knowledge is improved.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the computer code, when executed by the onboard computer system, causes the onboard computer system to distribute the knowledge from the knowledge layer to the second group of applications on the one or more other endpoints via the V2X communication at least by: modifying an operation of a communication unit of the connected endpoint to transmit a V2X message that includes the knowledge to the one or more other endpoints.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the computer code, when executed by the onboard computer system, causes the onboard computer system to generate, on the knowledge layer, the knowledge based on the set of information according to the standard at least by: applying a set of knowledge inference rules to create the knowledge based on one or more of the set of information and existing knowledge that is already created; and associating the knowledge with a set of knowledge tags.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the knowledge is distributed to the one or more of the first group of applications on the connected endpoint and the second group of applications on the one or more other endpoints based on the set of knowledge tags so that the capability of the connected endpoint to distribute the knowledge is further improved.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the set of knowledge tags includes one or more of the following: a location tag; a time tag; a content tag; and a priority tag.
17. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory memory of an onboard computer system of a connected endpoint storing computer-executable code that, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to: analyze, on an information layer, sensor data to generate a set of information that describes one or more events that occur in a roadway environment; and generate, on a knowledge layer, knowledge based on the set of information according to a standard to increase a use efficiency of one or more computational resources of the connected endpoint and to improve a capability of the connected endpoint to distribute the knowledge.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the knowledge has a common format compatible with one or more of a first group of applications on the connected endpoint and a second group of applications on one or more other endpoints and wherein the computer-executable code, when executed by the processor, causes the processor further to: distribute the knowledge from the knowledge layer to the one or more of the first group of applications on the connected endpoint via an intra-endpoint communication and the second group of applications on the one or more other endpoints via a Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) communication so that the use efficiency of the one or more computational resources of the connected endpoint is increased and the capability of the connected endpoint to distribute the knowledge is improved.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the computer-executable code, when executed by the processor, causes the processor to generate, on the knowledge layer, the knowledge based on the set of information according to the standard at least by: applying a set of knowledge inference rules to create the knowledge based on one or more of the set of information and existing knowledge that is already created; and associating the knowledge with a set of knowledge tags.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the knowledge is distributed to the one or more of the first group of applications on the connected endpoint and the second group of applications on the one or more other endpoints based on the set of knowledge tags so that the capability of the connected endpoint to distribute the knowledge is further improved.
</claims>
</document>
