<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S19/25,G06Q20/36,G06Q20/40,G10L17/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
RICE, CHRISTOPHER LAMONT
WYLLIE, GRAHAM MARSHALL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71944590
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Security Tool
</title>

<abstract>
A processor receives global positioning system data from a mobile device of a user of an account. The processor further receives information from a vendor, indicating that a transaction using the account was attempted. The processor determines, based on historical transaction and location information, and current transaction information, a probability that the transaction is fraudulent. In response, the processor rejects the transaction, and deactivates a card and mobile wallet of the user. The processor also sends a notification to the mobile device requesting a voice confirmation. The processor receives the voice confirmation, splits it into a set of voice characteristic data and determines, based on voice characteristic data stored in memory, that the voice confirmation was generated by the user. In response, the processor reactivates the card and the mobile wallet and stores a set of information describing the transaction in memory.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: a memory configured to store: a first log comprising historical transaction information; a second log comprising historical location information; and a third log comprising a first set of voice characteristic data assigned to a user of an account; a hardware processor communicatively coupled to the memory, the hardware processor configured to: receive global positioning system data from a mobile device of the user of the account; store the global positioning system data in the second log; receive account information from a vendor, the account information indicating that a transaction using the account was attempted; determine, based on the historical transaction information stored in the first log, the historical location information stored in the second log, an amount of the transaction, a time of the transaction, and a location of the vendor, a probability that the transaction is fraudulent; determine that the probability that the transaction is fraudulent is greater than a set threshold; in response to determining that the probability that the transaction is fraudulent is greater than the set threshold: reject the transaction; deactivate a card assigned to the user of the account; deactivate a mobile wallet stored on the mobile device of the user of the account; send a notification to the mobile device indicating fraudulent activity has been detected and requesting a voice confirmation; receive the voice confirmation from the mobile device; split the voice confirmation into a second set of voice characteristic data; determine, based on a comparison between the second set of voice characteristic data and the first set of voice characteristic data, that the voice confirmation was generated by the user of the account; in response to determining that the voice confirmation was generated by the user of the account: reactivate the card and the mobile wallet; store a set of information describing the transaction in the first log, the set of information comprising: a location of the vendor; a time of the transaction; and an amount of the transaction; determine that the probability that the transaction is fraudulent is less than the set threshold; and in response to determining that the probability that the transaction is fraudulent is less than the set threshold, authorize the transaction.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set threshold is set by the user of the account.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the processor is further configured to receive a request from the user to change the set threshold to a new threshold and in response to receiving the request from the user, change the set threshold to the new threshold.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the memory is further configured to store an authentication phrase assigned to the user of the account; and the process of determining that the voice confirmation was generated by the user of the account further comprises determining that the voice confirmation corresponds to the authentication phrase.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the notification requesting the voice confirmation comprises a request to speak a phrase displayed in the notification to verify the transaction.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the process of determining the probability that the transaction is fraudulent comprises using a machine learning algorithm.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first set of voice characteristic data assigned to the user comprises pitch information, timber information, intonation information, and tone information.
8. A method comprising: receiving global positioning system data from a mobile device of a user of an account; storing the global positioning system data in a second log comprising historical location information; receiving account information from a vendor, the account information indicating that a transaction using the account was attempted; determining, based on historical transaction information stored in a first log, the historical location information stored in the second log, an amount of the transaction, a time of the transaction, and a location of the vendor, a probability that the transaction is fraudulent; determining that the probability that the transaction is fraudulent is greater than a set threshold; in response to determining that the probability that the transaction is fraudulent is greater than the set threshold: rejecting the transaction; deactivating a card assigned to the user of the account; deactivating a mobile wallet stored on the mobile device of the user of the account; sending a notification to the mobile device indicating fraudulent activity has been detected and requesting a voice confirmation; receiving the voice confirmation from the mobile device; splitting the voice confirmation into a second set of voice characteristic data; determining, based on a comparison between the second set of voice characteristic data and a first set of voice characteristic data assigned to the user of the account and stored in a third log, that the voice confirmation was generated by the user of the account; in response to determining that the voice confirmation was generated by the user of the account: reactivating the card and the mobile wallet; storing a set of information describing the transaction in the first log, the set of information comprising: a location of the vendor; a time of the transaction; and an amount of the transaction; determining that the probability that the transaction is fraudulent is less than the set threshold; and in response to determining that the probability that the transaction is fraudulent is less than the set threshold, authorizing the transaction.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the set threshold is set by the user of the account.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the method further comprises receiving a request from the user to change the set threshold to a new threshold and in response to receiving the request from the user, changing the set threshold to the new threshold.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein determining that the voice confirmation was generated by the user of the account further comprises determining that the voice confirmation corresponds to an authentication phrase assigned to the user of the account.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the notification requesting the voice confirmation comprises a request to speak a phrase displayed in the notification to verify the transaction.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein determining the probability that the transaction is fraudulent comprises using a machine learning algorithm.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the first set of voice characteristic data assigned to the user comprises pitch information, timber information, intonation information, and tone information.
15. A system comprising: a storage element operable to store: a first log comprising historical transaction information; a second log comprising historical location information; and a third log comprising a first set of voice characteristic data assigned to a user of an account; a processing element communicatively coupled to the storage element, the processing element operable to: receive global positioning system data from a mobile device of the user of the account; store the global positioning system data in the second log; receive account information from a vendor, the account information indicating that a transaction using the account was attempted; determine, using a machine learning algorithm, based on the historical transaction information stored in the first log, the historical location information stored in the second log, an amount of the transaction, a time of the transaction, and a location of the vendor, a probability that the transaction is fraudulent; determine that the probability that the transaction is fraudulent is greater than a set threshold; in response to determining that the probability that the transaction is fraudulent is greater than the set threshold: reject the transaction; deactivate a card assigned to the user of the account; deactivate a mobile wallet stored on the mobile device of the user of the account; send a notification to the mobile device indicating fraudulent activity has been detected and requesting a voice confirmation; receive the voice confirmation from the mobile device; split the voice confirmation into a second set of voice characteristic data; determine, based on a comparison between the second set of voice characteristic data and the first set of voice characteristic data, that the voice confirmation was generated by the user of the account; in response to determining that the voice confirmation was generated by the user of the account: reactivate the card and the mobile wallet; store a set of information describing the transaction in the first log, the set of information comprising: a location of the vendor; a time of the transaction; and an amount of the transaction; determine that the probability that the transaction is fraudulent is less than the set threshold; and in response to determining that the probability that the transaction is fraudulent is less than the set threshold, authorize the transaction.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the set threshold is set by the user of the account.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the processing element is further configured to receive a request from the user to change the set threshold to a new threshold and in response to receiving the request from the user, changes the set threshold to the new threshold.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein: the storage element is further configured to store an authentication phrase assigned to the user of the account; and the process of determining that the voice confirmation was generated by the user of the account further comprises determining that the voice confirmation corresponds to the authentication phrase.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the notification requesting the voice confirmation comprises a request to speak a phrase displayed in the notification to verify the transaction.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the first set of voice characteristic data assigned to the user comprises pitch information, timber information, intonation information, and tone information.
</claims>
</document>
