<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/248,G06F16/26,G06F16/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DSI DIGITAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUGHES, ANTHONY MITCHELL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70848736
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA INTERACTION PLATFORMS UTILIZING DYNAMIC RELATIONAL AWARENESS
</title>

<abstract>
There is a need for more effective and efficient data modeling and/or data visualization solutions. This need can be addressed by, for example, solutions for performing data modeling and/or data visualization in an effective and efficient manner. In one example, solutions for generating a data model with dynamic relational awareness are disclosed. In another example, solutions for processing data retrieval queries using data models with dynamic relational awareness are disclosed. In yet another example, solutions for generating data visualizations using data models with dynamic relational awareness are disclosed. In a further example, solutions for integrating external data objects into data models with dynamic relational awareness are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for generating a visual representation of a data retrieval query output comprising a plurality of retrieved data objects, the computer-implemented method comprising: for each retrieved data object, generating one or more absorption parameters for the retrieved data object; mapping each of the one or more absorption parameters for a retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects to a visualization space comprising one or more input dimensions associated with the one or more absorption parameters and one or more output dimensions associated with one or more visualization configuration parameters; generating, based at least in part on the visualization space, the one or more visualization configuration parameters for each retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects; and generating the visual representation based at least in part on each one or more visualization configuration parameters for a retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the each one or more visualization configuration parameters for a particular retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects comprises one or more visualization location coordinates for the particular retrieved data object.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more visualization location coordinates for the particular retrieved data object comprise: a first visualization location coordinate determined based at least in part on each particular relational awareness score for any retrieved data object relationship between the retrieved particular data object and the plurality of retrieved data objects; and a second visualization location coordinate determined based at least in part on each environment-based absorption score for any retrieved data object relationship between the particular retrieved data object and the plurality of retrieved data objects.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein: the one or more visualization location coordinates comprise a third visualization location coordinate determined based at least in part on a hierarchical meta-type of the particular retrieved data object; and the hierarchical meta-type of the particular data object indicates whether the particular data object is comprising one or more related hierarchical meta-type designations of a plurality of predefined hierarchical meta-type designations.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more visualization configuration parameters for a retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects comprise one or more shape-defining visualization configuration parameters, one or more rotation-speed-defining visualization configuration parameters, one or more color-defining visualization configuration parameters, and one or more pulse-intensity-defining visualization configuration parameters, one or more location or proximity defining parameters, one or more textural configuration parameters.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, generating the visual representation is performed further based at least in part one or more layout configuration parameters for the plurality of retrieved data objects.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein: each one or more visualization configuration parameters for a particular retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects comprises one or more visualization location coordinates for the particular retrieved data object, and the one or more visualization location coordinates comprise one or more layout-based configuration parameters that define a location of the particular retrieved data object with respect to a layout defined by the one or more layout configuration parameters for the plurality of retrieved data objects.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: the one or more absorption parameters for a particular retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects comprise an individual absorption score for the particular retrieved data object, and the individual absorption score of the particular retrieved data object indicates an estimated relational awareness capacity of the particular retrieved data object given one or more object attributes of the particular retrieved data object.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: the one or more absorption parameters for a particular retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects comprise a hierarchical absorption score for the particular retrieved data object, and the hierarchical absorption score of the particular retrieved data object is determined based at least in part on each individual absorption score for a parent data object that is a hierarchical parent of the particular retrieved data object.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: the one or more absorption parameters for a particular retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects comprise an operational absorption score for the particular retrieved data object, and the operational absorption score of the particular retrieved data object is determined based at least in part on each individual absorption score for a related data object that is operationally related to the particular retrieved data object.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: the one or more absorption parameters for a particular retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects comprise an environment-based absorption score for the particular retrieved data object, and the environment-based absorption score of the particular retrieved data object indicates an estimated relational significance of the particular retrieved data object to an environment state of a data interaction platform executing the data retrieval query.
12. An apparatus for generating a visual representation of a data retrieval query output comprising a plurality of retrieved data objects, the apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory including program code, the at least one memory and the program code configured to, with the processor, cause the apparatus to at least: for each retrieved data object, generate one or more absorption parameters for the retrieved data object; map each of the one or more absorption parameters for a retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects to a visualization space comprising one or more input dimensions associated with the one or more absorption parameters and one or more output dimensions associated with one or more visualization configuration parameters; generate, based at least in part on the visualization space, the one or more visualization configuration parameters for each retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects; and generate the visual representation based at least in part on each one or more visualization configuration parameters for a retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the each one or more visualization configuration parameters for a particular retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects comprises one or more visualization location coordinates for the particular retrieved data object.
14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the one or more visualization location coordinates for the particular retrieved data object comprise: a first visualization location coordinate determined based at least in part on each particular relational awareness score for any retrieved data object relationship between the retrieved particular data object and the plurality of retrieved data objects; and a second visualization location coordinate determined based at least in part on each environment-based absorption score for any retrieved data object relationship between the particular retrieved data object and the plurality of retrieved data objects.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein: the one or more visualization location coordinates comprise a third visualization location coordinate determined based at least in part on a hierarchical meta-type of the particular retrieved data object; and the hierarchical meta-type of the particular data object indicates whether the particular data object is comprising one or more related hierarchical meta-type designations of a plurality of predefined hierarchical meta-type designations.
16. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the one or more visualization configuration parameters for a retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects comprise one or more shape-defining visualization configuration parameters, one or more rotation-speed-defining visualization configuration parameters, one or more color-defining visualization configuration parameters, and one or more pulse-intensity-defining visualization configuration parameters.
17. The apparatus of claim 12, generating the visual representation is performed further based at least in part one or more layout configuration parameters for the plurality of retrieved data objects.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein: each one or more visualization configuration parameters for a particular retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects comprises one or more visualization location coordinates for the particular retrieved data object, and the one or more visualization location coordinates comprise one or more layout-based configuration parameters that define a location of the particular retrieved data object with respect to a layout defined by the one or more layout configuration parameters for the plurality of retrieved data objects.
19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein: the one or more absorption parameters for a particular retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects comprise an individual absorption score for the particular retrieved data object, and the individual absorption score of the particular retrieved data object indicates an estimated relational awareness capacity of the particular retrieved data object given one or more object attributes of the particular retrieved data object.
20. A computer program product for generating a visual representation of a data retrieval query output comprising a plurality of retrieved data objects, the computer program product comprising at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code portions stored therein, the computer-readable program code portions configured to: for each retrieved data object, generate one or more absorption parameters for the retrieved data object; map each of the one or more absorption parameters for a retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects to a visualization space comprising one or more input dimensions associated with the one or more absorption parameters and one or more output dimensions associated with one or more visualization configuration parameters; generate, based at least in part on the visualization space, the one or more visualization configuration parameters for each retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects; and generate the visual representation based at least in part on each one or more visualization configuration parameters for a retrieved data object of the plurality of retrieved data objects.
</claims>
</document>
