<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
PLONTSCH, BERND INGO
PRISH, Shahar
SHAYA, Omar
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70190139
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENHANCED TASK MANAGEMENT FEATURE FOR ELECTRONIC APPLICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
An enhanced task management feature can provide enhanced task management capabilities including making the entering of new tasks in an electronic application easier for the user, such as having the user see suggestions of where to put the new task and, in some cases, providing suggestions for details associated with the task. The enhanced task management feature can receive task input associated with a task item from an application; use the task input and at least a user-specific model to identify at least one likely task list name for the task item; and provide a suggested task list name from the at least one likely task list name to the application for display. The enhanced task management feature can receive from user input a task list name and the task item and the task item can then be assigned to a task list associated with the task list name.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving task input associated with a task item from an application; identifying, using the task input and at least a user-specific model, at least one likely task list name for the task item, wherein the user-specific model comprises user-specific data, the user-specific data comprising existing user-specific task lists and associated task items; providing a suggested task list name from the at least one likely task list name to the application for display; receiving a task list name and the task item, the task list name being a selection of one of the suggested task list name, a new task list name, or a different task list name; assigning the task item to a task list associated with the task list name; and updating the user-specific model with the task item and the task list name.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the suggested task list name is a name of an existing user-specific task list.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the at least one likely task list name for the task item comprises: analyzing the task input and the user-specific data to determine the at least one likely task list name for the task item.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the at least one likely task list name for the task item further uses aggregated data of an aggregated model, the aggregated data comprising existing aggregated task lists and associated task items of a plurality of users, the identifying comprising: analyzing the task input and the user-specific data to determine a name of an existing user-specific task list; and analyzing the task input and the aggregated data to determine a name of an existing aggregated task list.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the suggested task list name is the name of an existing aggregated task list, the method further comprising creating the task list associated with the task list name.
6. The method of claim 4, further comprising updating the aggregated model with the task item and the task list name.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the user-specific data further comprises task properties assigned to the task items.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: identifying at least one likely task property for the task item; providing the at least one likely task property to the application for display; receiving one or more task properties and the task item, the one or more task properties being a selection of one or more of the at least one likely task property or a new task property; assigning the one or more task properties to the task item; and updating at least the user-specific model with the task item and the one or more task properties.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein identifying the at least one likely task property for the task item comprises: obtaining context information; and analyzing the task item, the context information, and one or more of the user-specific data and aggregated data of an aggregated model to determine the at least one likely task property for the task item, the aggregated data comprising existing aggregated task lists, associated task items, and task properties assigned to the task items.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising: receiving a request for updated task properties for active task items of one or more of the existing user-specific task lists, the request comprising context information; analyzing the one or more of the existing user-specific task lists to determine each active task item, each active task item having assigned task properties; identifying likely task properties for each active task item using the active task items, the context information, and one or more of the user-specific data and aggregated data of an aggregated model, the aggregated data comprising existing aggregated task lists, associated task items, and task properties assigned to the task items; determining, for each active task item, if there is a change in task properties by comparing the assigned task properties and the likely task properties; and updating the assigned task properties with the likely task properties for the active task items if there is a change in the task properties.
11. The method of claim 7, further comprising: receiving a trigger for a property assigned to at least one of the task items of the user-specific data; obtaining context information, wherein the context information comprises at least one of a timestamp, user location, content, client type, application type, and application state; determining at least one reminder by analyzing the trigger, the task items, and the context information; and providing the at least one reminder for display.
12. A computer readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by a processor, perform a method comprising: receiving task input associated with a task item from an application; identifying, using the task input, a user-specific model, and an aggregated model, at least one likely task list name for the task item, wherein the user-specific model comprises user-specific data, the user-specific data comprising existing user-specific task lists and associated task items and task properties, wherein the aggregated model comprises aggregated data, the aggregated data comprising existing aggregated task lists and associated task items and task properties of a plurality of users; providing a suggested task list name from the at least one likely task list name to the application for display; receiving a task list name and the task item, the task list name being a selection of one of the suggested task list name, a new task list name, or a different task list name; assigning the task item to a task list associated with the task list name; and updating the user-specific model and the aggregated model with the task item and the task list name.
13. The medium of claim 12, wherein identifying the at least one likely task list name for the task item comprises: analyzing the task input and the user-specific data to determine a name of an existing user-specific task list; and analyzing the task input and the aggregated data to determine a name of an existing aggregated task list.
14. The medium of claim 12, wherein the suggested task list name is the name of an existing aggregated task list, the method further comprising creating the task list associated with the task list name.
15. The medium of claim 12, wherein the method further comprises: identifying at least one likely task property for the task item, wherein identifying the at least one likely task property for the task item comprises: obtaining context information; and analyzing the task item, the context information, and one or more of the user-specific data and the aggregated data to determine the at least one likely task property for the task item; providing the at least one likely task property to the application for display; receiving one or more task properties and the task item, the one or more task properties being a selection of one or more of the at least one likely task property or a new task property; assigning the one or more task properties to the task item; and updating at least the user-specific model with the task item and the one or more task properties.
16. The medium of claim 12, wherein the method further comprises: receiving a trigger for a property assigned to at least one of the task items of the user-specific data; obtaining context information, wherein the context information comprises at least one of a timestamp, user location, content, client type, application type, and application state; determining at least one reminder by analyzing the trigger, the task items, and the context information; and providing the at least one reminder for display.
17. A system comprising: a processing system; a storage system; and instructions stored on the storage system that, when executed by the processing system, direct the processing system to: receive task input associated with a task item from an application; identify, using the task input, a user-specific model, and an aggregated model, at least one likely task list name for the task item, wherein the user-specific model comprises user-specific data, the user-specific data comprising existing user-specific task lists and associated task items and task properties, wherein the aggregated model comprises aggregated data, the aggregated data comprising existing aggregated task lists and associated task items and task properties of a plurality of users; provide a suggested task list name from the at least one likely task list name to the application for display; receive a task list name and the task item, the task list name being a selection of one of the suggested task list name, a new task list name, or a different task list name; assign the task item to a task list associated with the task list name; and update the user-specific model and the aggregated model with the task item and the task list name.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the instructions to identify the at least one likely task list name for the task item direct the processing system to: analyze the task input and the user-specific data to determine a name of an existing user-specific task list; and analyze the task input and the aggregated data to determine a name of an existing aggregated task list.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the instructions further direct the processing system to: identify at least one likely task property for the task item, wherein identifying the at least one likely task property for the task item comprises: obtain context information; and analyze the task item, the context information, and one or more of the user-specific data and the aggregated data to determine the at least one likely task property for the task item; provide the at least one likely task property to the application for display; receive one or more task properties and the task item, the one or more task properties being a selection of one or more of the at least one likely task property or a new task property; assign the one or more task properties to the task item; and update at least the user-specific model with the task item and the one or more task properties.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein the instructions further direct the processing system to: receive a trigger for a property assigned to at least one of the task items of the user-specific data; obtain context information, wherein the context information comprises at least one of a timestamp, user location, content, client type, application type, and application state; determine at least one reminder by analyzing the trigger, the task items, and the context information; and provide the at least one reminder for display.
</claims>
</document>
