<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COUPA SOFTWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARRIS, SCOTT
MEHTA, JUSTIN
MILLER, ANDREW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66432239
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER-IMPLEMENTED METHOD AND SYSTEMS FOR USING TRANSACTION DATA TO GENERATE OPTIMIZED EVENT TEMPLATES BASED ON A REQUESTED EVENT TYPE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for generating event templates for requested event types are described herein. In an embodiment, a server computer receives transactional data describing transactions between a plurality of computing devices. The server computer uses the transactional data to identify a plurality of instances of a particular event type by determining, for each instance, that a plurality of transactions associated with a particular computing device relate to an event of the particular event type. The server computer uses the transactional data related to the plurality of instances of the particular event type to determine a plurality of items for the particular event type. When the server computer receives a request from a client computing device to generate an event, the server computer generates and displays an event template which identifies the plurality of items.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; a memory storing instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause performance of: receiving transactional data describing transactions between a plurality of computing devices; using the transactional data, identifying a plurality of instances of a particular event type by determining, for each instance, that a plurality of transactions associated with a particular computing device relate to an event of the particular event type; normalizing identifiers of items in the transactional data; using the transactional data related to the plurality of instances of the particular event type, determining a plurality of items for the particular event type using the normalized identifiers and generating rankings of the plurality of items based on a frequency with which each item appears in the plurality of instances of the event type in the transactional data; receiving, from a client computing device, an event generation request for an event of the particular event type; generating an event template which identifies the plurality of items using normalized identifiers of the plurality of items; displaying, through a graphical user interface executing on the client computing device, the event template, displaying the event template comprising populating the graphical user interface with the normalized identifiers of the plurality of items ordered based, at least in part, on the rankings.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause performance of: using the transactional data, identifying a plurality of suppliers of a particular item of the plurality of items; displaying, with the event template, recommendations of the plurality of suppliers for the particular item.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause performance of: determining, based, at least in part, on the transactional data related to the plurality of instances of the particular event type, a consumption rate of a particular item; wherein the event generation request identifies a size of the event of the particular event type; based on the size of the event and the consumption rate of the particular item, determining a number of the particular item for the event; displaying, with the event template, a recommendation of the number of the particular item.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein determining that the plurality of transactions associated with the particular computing device relate to an event of the particular event type comprises determining that the plurality of transactions contain a particular data string in a particular field.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein identifying the plurality of instances of the particular event type comprises normalizing data strings in the particular field across the plurality of transactions from the plurality of instances.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein determining that the plurality of transactions associated with the particular computing device relate to an event of the particular event type further comprises determining that particular items identified in the plurality of transactions match items identified in other transactions of the particular event type.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause performance of: using the transactional data, identifying one or more optimal parameters for the particular event type; displaying, with the event template, a recommendation of the one or more optimal parameters.
8. The system of claim 7: wherein the one or more optimal parameters include a starting price for a particular item of the plurality of items; wherein identifying the starting price for the particular item comprises computing correlations for the particular item between the starting price for the particular item and a final purchase price for the particular item and identifying, from the correlations, an optimal starting price.
9. The system of claim 7: wherein the one or more optimal parameters include times for sourcing different items of the plurality of items; wherein identifying the times for sourcing the different items of the plurality of items comprises computing correlations between price of the different items over time and identifying, from the correlations, an optimal time for sourcing each different item of the plurality of items.
10. A method comprising: receiving transactional data describing transactions between a plurality of computing devices; using the transactional data, identifying a plurality of instances of a particular event type by determining, for each instance, that a plurality of transactions associated with a particular computing device relate to an event of the particular event type; normalizing identifiers of items in the transactional data; using the transactional data related to the plurality of instances of the particular event type, determining a plurality of items for the particular event type using the normalized identifiers and generating rankings of the plurality of items based on a frequency with which each item appears in the plurality of instances of the event type in the transactional data; receiving, from a client computing device, an event generation request for an event of the particular event type; generating an event template which identifies the plurality of items using normalized identifiers of the plurality of items; displaying, through a graphical user interface executing on the client computing device, the event template, displaying the event template comprising populating the graphical user interface with the normalized identifiers of the plurality of items ordered based, at least in part, on the rankings.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: using the transactional data, identifying a plurality of suppliers of a particular item of the plurality of items; displaying, with the event template, recommendations of the plurality of suppliers for the particular item.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising: determining, based, at least in part, on the transactional data related to the plurality of instances of the particular event type, a consumption rate of a particular item; wherein the event generation request identifies a size of the event of the particular event type; based on the size of the event and the consumption rate of the particular item, determining a number of the particular item for the event; displaying, with the event template, a recommendation of the number of the particular item.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein determining that the plurality of transactions associated with the particular computing device relate to an event of the particular event type comprises determining that the plurality of transactions contain a particular data string in a particular field.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein identifying the plurality of instances of the particular event type comprises normalizing data strings in the particular field across the plurality of transactions from the plurality of instances.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein determining that the plurality of transactions associated with the particular computing device relate to an event of the particular event type further comprises determining that particular items identified in the plurality of transactions match items identified in other transactions of the particular event type.
16. The method of claim 10, further comprising: using the transactional data, identifying one or more optimal parameters for the particular event type; displaying, with the event template, a recommendation of the one or more optimal parameters.
17. The method of claim 16: wherein the one or more optimal parameters include a starting price for a particular item of the plurality of items; wherein identifying the starting price for the particular item comprises computing correlations for the particular item between the starting price for the particular item and a final purchase price for the particular item and identifying, from the correlations, an optimal starting price.
18. The method of claim 16: wherein the one or more optimal parameters include times for sourcing different items of the plurality of items; wherein identifying the times for sourcing the different items of the plurality of items comprises computing correlations between price of the different items over time and identifying, from the correlations, an optimal time for sourcing each different item of the plurality of items.
19. A computer system comprising: one or more processors; a memory coupled to the one or more processors; one or more sequences of program instructions in the memory which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause performance of: receiving buyer-supplier transactional data describing transactions in physical goods between a plurality of computing devices of a buyer entity and a supplier entity and comprising one or more of electronic purchase orders and electronic invoices; normalizing identifiers of physical goods in the buyer-seller transactional data; using the transactional data, identifying a plurality of instances of a particular event type by determining, for each instance, that a plurality of transactions associated with a particular computing device relate to an event of the particular event type; using the transactional data related to the plurality of instances of the particular event type, determining a plurality of physical goods for the particular event type and generating rankings of the plurality of physical goods on a frequency with which each physical good appears in the plurality of instances of the event type in the transactional data; receiving, from a client computing device, an event generation request for an event of the particular event type; using the transactional data, identifying a number of suppliers for a particular physical good of the plurality of physical goods which, in past events, have generated a lowest price for the particular physical good; generating an event template which identifies the plurality of physical goods using normalized identifiers of the plurality of physical goods and a recommendation of the identified number of suppliers; displaying, through a graphical user interface executing on the client computing device, the event template, displaying the event template comprising populating a graphical user interface with the normalized identifiers of the plurality of physical goods ordered based, at least in part, on the rankings.
</claims>
</document>
