<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-05-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01L27/32,H04N5/89
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BINBOGA, EVRIM
CANCEL OLMO, RAMON C.
KULKARNI, SHANTANU D.
PARIKH, KUNJAL S.
PARANJAPE, VIVEK
PRATHABAN, SATISH
SAXENA, SIDDHARTHA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72040701
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IN-DISPLAY SENSORS AND VIEWING ANGLE ADJUSTMENT MICROASSEMBLIES
</title>

<abstract>
Cameras are located within the display area of a display. In-display cameras allow for thinner display bezels. In-display cameras allow for the creation of ultra-high resolution images. The ability to capture an object from multiple perspectives allows for holographic image recording and playback. Multiple views of an image can be captured with varying depths of focus, allowing an image's depth of field to be adjusted during post processing. In-display cameras can also be used for user authentication, touch detection and three-dimensional gesture recognition. Thermal sensors located within the display area allow for control of the display temperature, improved control over system performance, and compensation for micro-LED degradation that can occur due to aging or increased temperature. Microlens assemblies located above pixels can adjust the viewing cone angle of the display or a portion of the display and microassemblies located under individual pixels or pixel arrays can adjust a viewing angle.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computing system comprising: a display comprising a display substrate, the display substrate comprising a front side; a plurality of pixels located on the front side of the display substrate, the plurality of pixels defining a display area; and a plurality of cameras located on the front side of the display substrate and within the display area.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of cameras comprises a metalens.
3. The computing system of claim 1, further comprising: a first housing that contains the display; and a second housing that contains at least one processor and one or more computer-readable media, wherein the first housing is communicatively coupled to the second housing.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein individual of the pixels occupy a pixel area and at least one of the cameras is located within the pixel area occupied by one of the pixels.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of pixels comprises micro-LEDs or organic LEDs.
6. The computing system of claim 1, further comprising: at least one processor; and one or more computer-readable media comprising instructions stored thereon that when executed causes the at least one processor to: capture a plurality of views, the plurality of views defining a holographic image or video, individual of the views captured by one or more different cameras from the plurality of cameras, the individual views having associated view location information indicating the location of the one or more cameras that captured the individual view; and store the plurality of views of the holographic image or video and the view location information associated with the views of the holographic image or video.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the instructions stored on the one or more computer-readable media further cause the at least one processor to: track a user feature based on image sensor data generated by at least one of the plurality of the cameras; determine a position of the user feature; select a view of the plurality of views of the holographic image or video based at least on the determined position of the tracked user feature and the view location information associated with the plurality of views of the image of video; and cause the selected view of the holographic image or video to be shown on the display.
8. The computing system of claim 7, wherein the plurality of view of a holographic image or video is a plurality of views of a holographic video, the instructions stored on the one or more computer-readable media to further cause the at least one processor to transmit the plurality of views of the holographic video to a second system.
9. The computing system of claim 7, wherein the plurality of view of a holographic image or video is a plurality of views of a holographic video, the instructions stored on the one or more computer-readable media further cause the at least one processor to: receive information from a second system indicating a tracked position of a feature of a user of the second system; select one of the views of the plurality of views of the holographic video based at least on the information indicating the tracked position of the feature of the user of second system and the view location information associated with at least one of the plurality of views of the holographic video; and transmit the selected view of the holographic video to the second system.
10. The computing system of claim 1, further comprising: at least one processor; and one or more computer-readable media comprising instructions stored thereon that when executed causes the at least one processor to: capture a plurality of views of a video, individual of the views comprising image sensor data generated by one of the cameras of the plurality of cameras, the individual views captured by different cameras of the plurality of cameras, the individual views associated with view location information indicating the location of the camera used to capture the individual view; determine one or more avatar parameters for an avatar from the individual views of the video; and transmit the avatar parameters for the one or more of the views to a second system.
11. The computing system of claim 10, wherein the instructions stored on the one or more computer-readable media further cause the at least one processor to transmit the view location information associated with the one or more views transmitted to the second system.
12. The computing system of claim 10, wherein to determine one or more avatar parameters for the avatar from the individual views of the video comprises, for individual of the views, extracting one or more facial features from the individual view and converting the one or more facial features to the avatar parameters for the individual view.
13. The computing system of claim 10, wherein the instructions stored on the one or more computer-readable media further cause the at least one processor to: receive information indicating a tracked position of a feature of a user of the second system; and select a view of the plurality of views of the video based at least on the information indicating the tracked position of the feature of the user and the view location information associated with the plurality of views of the video; and wherein to transmit the avatar parameters for the one or more views to the second system comprises transmitting the avatar parameters for the selected view.
14. A holographic recording method comprising: capturing a plurality of views, the plurality of views defining a holographic image or video, individual of the views captured by one or more different cameras of a plurality of cameras located on the front side of a display substrate of a display, the display comprising a plurality of pixels located on the front side of the display substrate, the plurality of pixels defining a display area, the one or more cameras located within the display area, individual of the views having associated view location information indicating the location of the one or more cameras that captured the individual view; and storing the plurality of views of the holographic image or video and the view location information associated with the views of the holographic image or video.
15. The holographic recording method of claim 14, further comprising: tracking a user feature based on image sensor data generated by at least one of the plurality of the cameras; determining a position of the user feature; selecting a view of the plurality of views of the holographic image or video based at least on the determined position of the tracked user feature and the view location information associated with the plurality of views of the image of video; and causing the selected view of the holographic image or video to be shown on the display.
16. The holographic recording method of claim 15, wherein the plurality of views of a holographic image or video is a plurality of views of a holographic video, the method further comprising transmitting the plurality of views of the holographic video to a second system.
17. The holographic recording method of claim 15, wherein the plurality of view of a holographic image or video is a plurality of views of a holographic video, the method further comprising: receiving information from a second system indicating a tracked position of a feature of a user of the second system; selecting one of the views of the plurality of views of the holographic video based at least on the information indicating a tracked position of the feature of the user of second system and the view location information associated with at least one of the plurality of views of the holographic video; and transmitting the selected view of the holographic video to the second system.
18. The holographic recording method of claim 17, further comprising causing the selected view of the holographic video to be shown on the display as a feedback view.
19. One or more computer-readable media having instructions stored thereon for causing a computing system to perform a method, the method comprising: A holographic recording method comprising: capturing a plurality of views, the plurality of views defining a holographic image or video, individual of the views captured by one or more different cameras of a plurality of cameras located on the front side of a display substrate of a display, the display comprising a plurality of pixels located on the front side of the display substrate, the plurality of pixels defining a display area, the one or more cameras located within the display area, individual of the views having associated view location information indicating the location of the one or more cameras that captured the individual view; and storing the plurality of views of the holographic image or video and the view location information associated with the views of the holographic image or video.
20. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 19, the method further comprising: tracking a user feature based on image sensor data generated by at least one of the plurality of the cameras; determining a position of the user feature; selecting a view of the plurality of views of the holographic image or video based at least on the determined position of the tracked user feature and the view location information associated with the plurality of views of the image of video; and causing the selected view of the holographic image or video to be shown on the display.
21. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 19, wherein the plurality of views of a holographic image or video is a plurality of views of a holographic video, the method further comprising transmitting the plurality of views of the holographic video to a second system.
22. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 19, wherein the plurality of view of a holographic image or video is a plurality of views of a holographic video, the method further comprising: receiving information from a second system indicating a tracked position of a feature of a user of the second system; selecting one of the views of the plurality of views of the holographic video based at least on the information indicating a tracked position of the feature of the user of second system and the view location information associated with at least one of the plurality of views of the holographic video; and transmitting the selected view of the holographic video to the second system.
23. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 22, further comprising causing the selected view of the holographic video to be shown on the display as a feedback view.
24. A computing system comprising: a display comprising a display substrate, the display substrate comprising a front side; a plurality of pixels located on the front side of the display substrate, the plurality of pixels defining a display area; and an image capturing means for capturing images and video, the image capturing means located on the front side of the display substrate and within the display area.
25. The computing system of claim 24, further comprising: at least one processor; and one or more computer-readable media comprising instructions stored thereon that when executed causes the at least one processor to: capture a plurality of views, the plurality of views defining a holographic image or video, individual of the views captured by the image capturing means, the individual views having associated view location information indicating the location within the display at which the individual views were captured by the imaging means; and store the plurality of views of the holographic image or video and the view location information associated with the views of the holographic image or video.
</claims>
</document>
