<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/903,G06F16/9035,G06N20/00,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALESFORCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAY, JASON
He, Shengfan
Loganathan, Raveendrnathan
Nair, Vineeth Anand
Logue, Caroline Casey
Wright, Bradley Carroll
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73745069
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREPACKAGED DATA INGESTION FROM VARIOUS DATA SOURCES
</title>

<abstract>
An application may support ingestion of data to a data server. A user may identify the data source, and the server may determine a connector corresponding to the identified data source. The server may support a plurality of connectors for data ingestion. Based on the selected source, the user may select a data channel type, where the data channel type is associated with one or more packaged data sets that include different data set types. The server may then ingest the data set using the determined connector. The application may further support mapping of source and target attributes, custom mapping, and transformation functions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for data processing, comprising: receiving, at a data server, an identification of one or more data sources for data ingestion to the data server, wherein the data server includes a plurality connectors for ingesting multiple data set types from the one or more data set sources; determining, for each of the one or more data sources, a connector of the plurality of connectors for ingesting one or more data sets from the one or more data sources; receiving a selection of a data channel type from a plurality of data channel types, wherein each data channel type is associated with one or more packaged data sets comprising one or more data set types; and ingesting the one or more packaged data sets from the selected one or more data sources using the determined connector.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a plurality of source attributes associated with the one or more data sets from the one or more selected data sources; identifying a plurality of target attributes associated with a target data table of the data server; and mapping a set of the plurality of source attributes to a set of the plurality of target attributes based at least in part on a set of automated mapping rules.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein mapping the set of the plurality of source attributes to the set of the plurality of target attributes comprises: matching an identifier of one or more source attributes to an identifier of one or more target attributes.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein mapping the set of the plurality of source attributes to the set of the plurality of target attributes comprises: generating a transformation function for one or more of the set of the plurality of source attributes, wherein the transformation function transforms an attribute type from a first type associated with the source attribute to a second type associated with the target attribute.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein generating the transformation function for one or more of the set of the plurality of source attributes comprises: running a machine learning model to generate the set of automated mapping rules.
6. The method of claim 4, further comprising: displaying a mapping indicator indicating a mapping between the set of the plurality of source attributes and the set of the plurality of target attributes.
7. The method of claim 4, further comprising: displaying a transformation function indicator indicating a selected transformation function, one or more additional transformation formulas, a custom transformation function input field, a transformation function test field, or a combination thereof.
8. The method of claim 4, wherein an identifier of at least one source attribute is different than an identifier of at least one corresponding mapped target attribute.
9. The method of claim 2, further comprising: displaying a manual mapping indicator for one or more unmapped source attributes; and mapping the one or more unmapped source attributes to one or more unmapped target attributes based at least in part on user input via the manual mapping indicator.
10. The method of claim 2, further comprising: displaying a data ingestion status window comprising an indication of a number of ingested data records, an indication of a live data activity feed associated with the ingested data, or a combination thereof.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the data channel type comprises an email channel, a short message service (SMS) messaging channel, an in-application push messaging channel, or a combination thereof.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more data sources comprise internal data sources, external data sources, or both.
13. An apparatus for data processing, comprising: a processor, memory coupled with the processor; and instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: receive, at a data server, an identification of one or more data sources for data ingestion to the data server, wherein the data server includes a plurality connectors for ingesting multiple data set types from the one or more data set sources; determine, for each of the one or more data sources, a connector of the plurality of connectors for ingesting one or more data sets from the one or more data sources; receive a selection of a data channel type from a plurality of data channel types, wherein each data channel type is associated with one or more packaged data sets comprising one or more data set types; and ingest the one or more packaged data sets from the selected one or more data sources using the determined connector.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: identify a plurality of source attributes associated with the one or more data sets from the one or more selected data sources; identify a plurality of target attributes associated with a target data table of the data server; and map a set of the plurality of source attributes to a set of the plurality of target attributes based at least in part on a set of automated mapping rules.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the instructions to map the set of the plurality of source attributes to the set of the plurality of target attributes are executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: match an identifier of one or more source attributes to an identifier of one or more target attributes.
16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the instructions to map the set of the plurality of source attributes to the set of the plurality of target attributes are executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: generate a transformation function for one or more of the set of the plurality of source attributes, wherein the transformation function transforms an attribute type from a first type associated with the source attribute to a second type associated with the target attribute.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the instructions to generate the transformation function for one or more of the set of the plurality of source attributes are executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: run a machine learning model to generate the set of automated mapping rules.
18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the apparatus to: display a mapping indicator indicating a mapping between the set of the plurality of source attributes and the set of the plurality of target attributes.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing code for data processing, the code comprising instructions executable by a processor to: receive, at a data server, an identification of one or more data sources for data ingestion to the data server, wherein the data server includes a plurality connectors for ingesting multiple data set types from the one or more data set sources; determine, for each of the one or more data sources, a connector of the plurality of connectors for ingesting one or more data sets from the one or more data sources; receive a selection of a data channel type from a plurality of data channel types, wherein each data channel type is associated with one or more packaged data sets comprising one or more data set types; and ingest the one or more packaged data sets from the selected one or more data sources using the determined connector.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the instructions are further executable to: identify a plurality of source attributes associated with the one or more data sets from the one or more selected data sources; identify a plurality of target attributes associated with a target data table of the data server; and map a set of the plurality of source attributes to a set of the plurality of target attributes based at least in part on a set of automated mapping rules.
</claims>
</document>
