<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04L9/08,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VISA INTERNATIONAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUMARASWAMY, SUBRAMANIAN
SAINT, ERIC LE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68058280
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONSENSUS-BASED ONLINE AUTHENTICATION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for consensus-based online authentication are provided. An encryption device may be authenticated based on an authentication cryptogram generated by the encryption device. The encryption device may transmit a request for security assessment to one or more support devices. The support devices may individually assess the encryption device, other security devices, and contextual information. The support devices may choose to participate in a multi-party computation with the encryption device based on the security assessments. Support devices that choose to participate may transmit one or more secret shares or partial computations to the encryption device. The encryption device may use the secret shares or partial computations to generate an authentication cryptogram. The authentication cryptogram may be transmitted to a decryption device, which may decrypt the authentication cryptogram, evaluate its contents, and authenticate the encryption device based on its contents.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for participating in a generation of a cryptogram, the method comprising performing at a support device: receiving a request for security assessment, wherein the request is for the support device to participate in a multi-party computation to generate the cryptogram, and wherein the support device stores one or more secret shares generated from one or more secret values; receiving security data; identifying one or more security properties from the security data, the one or more security properties corresponding to a current state of a device providing the security data; comparing the one or more security properties to reference data accessible to the support device; deciding whether to participate in the multi-party computation based on the comparing of the one or more security properties to the reference data; and when the support device decides to participate, providing a partial cryptographic value to one or more encryption engines, wherein the partial cryptographic value is configured to be used by the one or more encryption engines to generate the cryptogram via the multi-party computation, and wherein the partial cryptographic value includes the one or more secret shares, at least one partial computation using at least one of the one or more secret shares, or a combination thereof.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the security data include one or more of a group consisting of: location of an encryption device, a user authentication risk estimate, whether a user is present at the encryption device, a purpose for generating the cryptogram, a local time at the encryption device, a local time at the support device, and an IP address of the encryption device.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the reference data includes one or more of the following: one or more previous locations of an encryption device, one or more previous user authentication risk estimate, whether a user was previously present at the encryption device, one or more previous purposes for generating one or more cryptograms, one or more previous times at which the one or more cryptograms were generated, and one or more previous IP addresses of the encryption device.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of deciding whether to participate in the multi-party computation additionally comprises: determining a likelihood that the cryptogram is being generated for a fraudulent purpose; and comparing the likelihood to a predetermined assurance level, wherein the support device decides to participate in the multi-party computation if the likelihood is less that the predetermined assurance level and decides not to participate otherwise.
5. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising: transmitting a request for the security data from one or more other support devices; and receiving the security data from the one or more other support devices.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein a number of secret shares included in the partial cryptographic value is inversely proportional to a likelihood that the cryptogram is being generated for a fraudulent purpose.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the cryptogram comprises one or more of the following: an assurance level and user information.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the security properties include identification data that can be used by the support device to identify a source of the security data, and wherein comparing the one or more security properties to reference data stored on the support device comprises identifying the source of the security data to be a peer in a group of devices using the identification data.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the security properties include one or more signed digital certificates, and wherein the step of comparing the one or more security properties to reference data stored on the support device comprises authenticating one or more sources of the security data by verifying the signed digital certificates.
10. A method for generating a cryptogram, the method comprising performing at an encryption device: transmitting a request for a security assessment to one or more support devices, wherein the request is for the one or more support devices to participate in a multi-party computation to generate the cryptogram, wherein the one or more support devices store one or more secret shares generated from one or more secret values; transmitting security data to the one or more support devices; receiving a plurality of partial cryptographic values from a portion of the one or more support devices, wherein the plurality of partial cryptographic values include at least one of the one or more secret shares, at least one partial computation using at least one of the one or more secret shares, or a combination thereof; and generating the cryptogram using the plurality of partial cryptographic values obtained from the portion of the one or more support devices and the encryption device.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the security data include one or more of the following: location of the encryption device, a user authentication risk estimate, whether a user is present at the encryption device, a purpose for generating the cryptogram, a local time at the encryption device, a local time at the one or more support devices, and an IP address of the encryption device.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising transmitting the cryptogram to a decryption device, the decryption device decrypting the cryptogram in order to produce an assurance level, wherein the assurance level is proportional to a likelihood that the cryptogram was generated for a fraudulent purpose.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the cryptogram comprises one or more of the following: an encrypted assurance level and encrypted user information.
14. A method of decrypting a cryptogram, the method comprising performing at a decryption system: storing a plurality of secrets across one or more decryption devices of the decryption system, wherein the plurality of secrets are also stored by an encryption system, wherein each of the plurality of secrets are stored by the decryption system in association with a different assurance level, wherein a first assurance level is higher than a second assurance level when encryption devices of the encryption system contribute more secret shares for the first assurance level than for the second assurance level; receiving the cryptogram from the encryption system; selecting a first secret of the plurality of secrets to use to decrypt the cryptogram, wherein the first secret corresponds to the first assurance level; determining that the first secret was used to encrypt the cryptogram; decrypting the cryptogram using the first secret to obtain confidential information; and based on the first assurance level, processing the confidential information according to a first protocol.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising receiving a stated assurance level from the encryption system, and wherein the step of determining that the first secret was used to encrypt the cryptogram comprises comparing the stated assurance level to the first assurance level, wherein the decryption system determines that the first secret was used to encrypt the cryptogram if the stated assurance level matches the first assurance level.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the confidential information comprises a comparison assurance level and user information; and wherein processing the confidential information according to the first protocol comprises comparing the comparison assurance level to a predetermined threshold assurance level, and comparing the user information against a user record.
17. The method of claim 14, further comprising: authenticating an encryption device of the encryption system based on the confidential information and the first protocol.
18. 18-20. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
