<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G07C5/08,H04L12/40,H04L29/06,H04L29/08,H04W4/40,H04W4/44
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PANASONIC INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANZAI, JUN
HAGA, TOMOYUKI
KISHIKAWA, TAKESHI
MAEDA MANABU
MATSUSHIMA HIDEKI
TSURUMI, JUNICHI
UJIIE, YOSHIHIRO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59081688
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SECURITY PROCESSING METHOD AND SERVER
</title>

<abstract>
An anomaly detection server is provided. The anomaly detection server is a server for counteracting an anomalous frame transmitted on an on-board network of a single vehicle. The anomaly detection server acquires information about multiple frames received on one or multiple on-board networks of one or multiple vehicles, including the single vehicle. The anomaly detection server, acting as an assessment unit that, based on the information about the multiple frames and information about a frame received on the on-board network of the single vehicle after the acquisition of the information about the multiple frames, assesses an anomaly level of the frame received on the on-board network of the single vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A security processing method, executed by a computer, for counteracting an anomalous frame transmitted on an on-board network of a single mobility entity, the on-board network of the single mobility entity joining multiple electronic control units installed inside the single mobility entity that perform a communication of a frame inside the single mobility entity, the security processing method comprising: assessing, by the computer, based on information about multiple frames received on one or multiple on-board networks of one or multiple vehicles and information about the frame received on the on-board network of the single mobility entity after receiving the multiple frames, an anomaly level of the frame received on the on-board network of the single mobility entity, the anomaly level of the received frame is a degree to which said received frame is considered to be anomalous; and deciding mobility entities to be alerted, that have a certain relationship with the single mobility entity, in accordance with the assessed anomaly level.
2. The security processing method according to claim 1, wherein the mobility entities having the certain relationship with the single mobility entity are mobility entities of a same configuration of the on-board network as the single mobility entity or mobility entities provided with an electronic controller of a same type as an electronic controller that transmits the frame in the on-board network of the single mobility entity.
3. The security processing method according to claim 1, wherein in deciding, content of transmission information to be transmitted to the single mobility entity is decided in accordance with the anomaly level assessed in the assessment; and the security processing method father comprising: transmitting the transmission information to the single mobility entity.
4. The security processing method according to claim 3, wherein the information about the frame received on the on-board network of the single mobility entity includes identification information of the frame, and in the deciding, the content of the transmission information is decided in accordance with the identification information of the frame in a case in which the anomaly level of the frame assessed in the assessment indicates that the frame is anomalous.
5. The security processing method according to claim 4, wherein in the deciding, in a case in which the identification information of the frame whose anomaly level is assessed to indicate that the frame is anomalous in the assessment is certain identification information, control information giving an instruction to stop running or reduce a running speed of the single mobility entity is included in the transmission information.
6. The security processing method according to claim 3, wherein in the transmitting, a transmission time of transmission information to transmit to the single mobility entity is decided in accordance with the anomaly level assessed in the assessment, and the transmission information is transmitted to the single mobility entity at the transmission time.
7. The security processing method according to claim 3, wherein in the deciding, in a case in which the anomaly level of the frame assessed in the assessment indicates that the frame is anomalous, when a same anomaly as an anomaly related to the frame is already occurring in one or multiple mobility entities having a same configuration of the on-board network as the single mobility entity, the content of the transmission information to be transmitted to the single mobility entity is decided based on a number of mobility entities in which the anomaly is occurring or a distance between the single mobility entity and the mobility entities in which the anomaly is occurring.
8. The security processing method according to claim 3, wherein in the deciding, in a case in which the anomaly level of the frame assessed in the assessment indicates that the frame is anomalous, fraud detection information indicating a rule or an algorithm for detecting a same anomaly as an anomaly on the on-board network is included in the transmission information.
9. The security processing method according to claim 3, wherein the information about the frame received on the on-board network of the single mobility entity includes identification information of the frame, and in the deciding, in a case in which the anomaly level of the frame assessed in the assessment indicates that the frame is anomalous, when the identification information of the frame is prescribed in advance for a frame for transmitting data by applying cryptographic processing technology, control information giving an instruction to update a key used when applying the cryptographic processing technology is included in the transmission information.
10. The security processing method according to claim 1, further comprising: deciding whether or not to transmit transmission information to vehicles having a certain relationship with the single vehicle in accordance with the assessed anomaly level.
11. The security processing method according to claim 1, further comprising: controlling the transmission of the transmission information by following the decision.
12. A computer for counteracting an anomalous frame transmitted on an on-board network of a single mobility entity, the on-board network of the single mobility entity joining multiple electronic control units installed inside the mobility entity that perform a communication of a frame inside the single mobility entity, the computer comprising: processing circuitry; and a storage including at least one set of instructions that, when executed by the processing circuitry, causes the processing circuitry to perform operations including: assessing, based on information about the multiple frames received on one or multiple on-board networks of one or multiple vehicles and information about the frame received on the on-board network of the single mobility entity after receiving the multiple frames, an anomaly level of the frame received on the on-board network of the single mobility entity, the anomaly level of the received frame is a degree to which said received frame is considered to be anomalous; and deciding mobility entities to be alerted, that have a certain relationship with the single mobility entity, in accordance with the assessed anomaly level.
</claims>
</document>
