<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-06-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/931,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BILBRAY, KYLE ROBERT
GOPALAKRISHNAN, VIJAY
SPATSCHECK, OLIVER
WANG, CHENGWEI
XU, YANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57452495
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VIRTUAL NETWORK ELEMENT AND METHODS FOR USE THEREWITH
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, a virtual network element that includes a plurality of virtual machine modules configured to process a plurality of control packets in a virtualized telecommunication network. A classifier module is configured to receive telecommunications traffic that includes the plurality of control packets and a plurality of data packets, to separate the plurality of control plane data from the at least one data packet, and to forward the plurality of control packets to selected ones of the plurality of virtual machine modules. A forwarding device, coupled to the classifier module and separate from the plurality of virtual machine modules, is configured to forward the plurality of data packets in the virtualized telecommunication network. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A virtual network element comprising: a plurality of virtual machines in a virtualized telecommunication network, the plurality of virtualized machines configured to process a plurality of control packets; and a hypervisor that includes at least one processor configured to implement a classifier module of the hypervisor and a forwarding device of the hypervisor; wherein the classifier module of the hypervisor is coupled to the plurality of virtual machines, and is configured to receive telecommunications traffic that includes the plurality of control packets and a plurality of data packets, to separate the plurality of control packets from the plurality of data packets via a header tagging scheme, to forward the plurality of data packets to the forwarding device of the hypervisor and to forward the plurality of control packets to selected ones of the plurality of virtual machines, wherein the selected ones of the plurality of virtual machines process the plurality of control packets to generate updating data in accordance with packet filtering rules or packet rate limiting rules; and wherein the forwarding device of the hypervisor is coupled to the classifier module, is separate from the plurality of virtual machines, and is configured to rewrite header information in at least one of the plurality of data packets based on the updating data and forward the plurality of data packets in the virtualized telecommunication network based on a rate limiting of the plurality of data packets in accordance with the packet rate limiting rules or a packet filtering of the plurality of data packets in accordance with the packet filtering rules.
2. The virtual network element of claim 1, wherein the updating data is generated further in accordance packet forwarding rules and wherein the forwarding device of the hypervisor is further configured to forward the plurality of data packets in the virtualized telecommunication network in accordance with the packet forwarding rules.
3. The virtual network element of claim 1, wherein the updating data is generated in accordance with at least one application programming interface that facilitates a communication channel between the plurality of virtual machines and the forwarding device.
4. The virtual network element of claim 1, wherein the packet filtering includes filtering out selected ones of the plurality of data packets in accordance with the packet filtering rules.
5. The virtual network element of claim 1, wherein the forwarding device includes a network packet switch.
6. The virtual network element of claim 1, wherein the forwarding device and the classifier module are implemented via an application program executed by a processing device and wherein the forwarding device operates in accordance with a data plane development kit.
7. The virtual network element of claim 1, wherein the forwarding device receives the telecommunications traffic and forwards the telecommunications traffic to the classifier module.
8. A method for execution by a virtual network element that includes at least one processor, the method comprising: receiving telecommunications traffic that includes a plurality of control packets and a plurality of data packets; separating the plurality of control packets from the plurality of data packets; forwarding the plurality of control packets to selected ones of a plurality of virtual machines; forwarding the plurality of data packets to a forwarding device of a hypervisor of the virtual network element; processing, via the selected ones of the plurality of virtual machines, the plurality of control packets in a virtualized telecommunication network to generate updating data; and forwarding, via the forwarding device that is separate from the plurality of virtual machines, the plurality of data packets in the virtualized telecommunication network based on the updating data; wherein forwarding the plurality of data packets includes rewriting header information in at least one of the plurality of data packets based on the updating data; wherein the updating data is generated in accordance with one or more of: packet filtering rules or packet rate limiting rules; and wherein the forwarding the plurality of data packets is based on a rate limiting the plurality of data packets in accordance with the packet rate limiting rules or a packet filtering of the plurality of data packets in accordance with the packet filtering rules.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the forwarding device receives the telecommunications traffic and forwards the telecommunications traffic to a classifier module of the hypervisor that separates the plurality of control packets from the plurality of data packets by utilizing a header tagging scheme.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the updating data is generated further in accordance with at least one application programming interface that facilitates a communication channel between the plurality of virtual machines and the forwarding device.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the forwarding the packet filtering includes filtering out selected ones of the plurality of data packets in accordance with packet filtering rules.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein forwarding the plurality of data packets includes executing a data plane development kit.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the updating data is generated further in accordance packet forwarding rules and wherein the forwarding device of the hypervisor is further configured to forward the plurality of data packets in the virtualized telecommunication network in accordance with the packet forwarding rules.
14. A virtual network element comprising: a plurality of virtual machines configured to process a plurality of control packets; and a hypervisor that includes at least one processor configured to implement a classifier module of the hypervisor and a forwarding device of the hypervisor; wherein the classifier module of the hypervisor is coupled to the plurality of virtual machines, and is configured to receive telecommunications traffic that includes the plurality of control packets and a plurality of data packets, to separate the plurality of control packets from the plurality of data packets via a header tagging scheme, to forward the plurality of data packets to the forwarding device of the hypervisor and to forward the plurality of control packets to selected ones of the plurality of virtual machines, wherein the selected ones of the plurality of virtual machines process the plurality of control packets to generate updating data in accordance with packet filtering rules or packet rate limiting rules; and wherein the forwarding device of the hypervisor is coupled to the classifier module, is separate from the plurality of virtual machines, and is configured to rewrite header information in at least one of the plurality of data packets based on the updating data and forward the plurality of data packets based on a rate limiting of the plurality of data packets in accordance with the packet rate limiting rules or a packet filtering of the plurality of data packets in accordance with the packet filtering rules.
15. The virtual network element of claim 14, wherein the updating data is generated further in accordance packet forwarding rules and wherein the forwarding device of the hypervisor is further configured to forward the plurality of data packets in accordance with the packet forwarding rules.
16. The virtual network element of claim 14, wherein the updating data is generated in accordance with at least one application programming interface that facilitates a communication channel between the plurality of virtual machines and the forwarding device.
17. The virtual network element of claim 14, wherein the packet filtering includes filtering out selected ones of the plurality of data packets in accordance with the packet filtering rules.
18. The virtual network element of claim 14, wherein the forwarding device includes a network packet switch.
19. The virtual network element of claim 14, wherein the forwarding device and the classifier module are implemented via an application program executed by a processing device and wherein the forwarding device operates in accordance with a data plane development kit.
20. The virtual network element of claim 14, wherein the forwarding device receives the telecommunications traffic and forwards the telecommunications traffic to the classifier module.
</claims>
</document>
