<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9535,G06F16/9538,G06F16/958,G06F8/77,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
PHAM, VINCENT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68466615
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTOMATIC IDENTIFICATION AND RECOMMENDATION OF TECHNIQUES AND EXPERTS
</title>

<abstract>
A system including one or more processors; and at least one memory storing computer code that, when executed by the one or more processors, is configured to cause the system to: receive data representative of first text indicative of a first draft coding script; query a database storing coding technique information corresponding to a plurality of coding techniques, the query comprising a first request including indications of a first coding technique classification of a first coding technique of the first draft coding script; receive, responsive to an identification of the first coding technique classification within the database, indications of one or more authors of corresponding coding techniques; generate a first recommendation comprising an identification of a first expert among the one or more authors; and dynamically display the first recommendation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and at least one memory storing computer code that, when executed by the one or more processors, is configured to cause the system to: receive data representative of first text indicative of a first draft coding script; query a database storing coding technique information corresponding to a plurality of coding techniques and associated models identified from past coding scripts; receive data corresponding to one or more authors of corresponding coding techniques of the plurality of coding techniques; generate a first recommendation comprising an identification of a first expert among the one or more authors, wherein the first expert is identified at least in part based on a total number of models used by the first expert; and dynamically display the first recommendation.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer code, when executed by the one or more processors, is further configured to cause the system to determine that the first draft coding script comprises the first function by: parsing the first text to identify one or more functions within the first text; and comparing each of the one or more functions to a library comprising a plurality of functions.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer code, when executed by the one or more processors, is further configured to cause the system to: receive an indication instructing the system to test the first draft coding script; execute the first draft coding script; and responsive to identifying one or more errors in the first draft coding script, output an error message and automatically generate the request to identify the first expert and query the database.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer code, when executed by the one or more processors, is further configured to cause the system to: generate links to one or more coding documents authored by the first expert; and display the first recommendation in a floating window with the one or more links to coding documents.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer code, when executed by the one or more processors, is further configured to cause the system to: determine a respective number of coding scripts including the first draft coding script associated with each of the one or more authors; and identify the first expert among the one or more authors based on the respective number of coding scripts.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer code, when executed by the one or more processors, is further configured to cause the system to: determine a respective number of lines of code associated with each one or more authors, the number of lines including lines of code in the first draft coding script; and identify the first expert among the one or more authors based on the respective number of lines of code.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer code, when executed by the one or more processors, is further configured to cause the system to: analyze the data representative of the first text as the first text is drafted to identify the first coding technique; and automatically generate the first request.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein generating the first recommendation comprises selecting the first expert from among the one or more authors based on a date representative of when the first expert drafted the corresponding coding technique.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer code, when executed by the one or more processors, is further configured to cause the system to: receive, responsive to an identification of the first function within the database, indications of an alternative coding technique performing a same function as the first coding technique; generate a second recommendation comprising an identification of a second expert among the one or more authors, the second expert being associated with the alternative coding technique; and dynamically display the second recommendation.
10. A system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more memory devices storing computer code that when executed by the one or more processors causes the system to: receive a first text indicative of a first coding script; responsive to identifying a first coding technique from the first text, query a database, using a first search query comprising the identity of the first coding technique, to determine if the database recognizes the first coding technique, the database storing coding technique classifications and language drafted by a plurality of authors; responsive to receiving an indication that the database does not recognize the first coding technique, create a first model of the first text comprising one or more words associated with the first coding technique, wherein creating the first model further comprises parsing the first search query for language associated with the first coding technique and creating a first bag-of-words model of the first text comprising the one or more words associated with the first coding technique; and send a first update to the database comprising the first model and an updated respective number of models used by each author of the first coding technique.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the computer code, when executed by the one or more processors, is further configured to cause the system to: determine if the first coding script comprises additional techniques by comparing the first text to a library of coding technique terms; and responsive to identifying a second coding technique based on the library of coding techniques, send a second update to the database comprising data indicative of the second coding technique; scrape a repository to identify a plurality of scripts comprising a plurality of coding techniques; identify one or more authors associated with each coding technique of the plurality of coding techniques based on information stored in the repository about the plurality of scripts; and store data indicative of the plurality of coding techniques and the respective one or more authors in the database, wherein the first model of the first text is created in response to receiving an indication that the database does not recognize the first coding technique.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein at least one script of the plurality of scripts is a draft script.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the computer code, when executed by the one or more processors, is further configured to cause the system to: output, to an administration device, a request for verification that the additional coding techniques are of a particular type; and send the second update responsive to receiving a verification from the administration device.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein receiving the first text comprises: recognizing, from the first text, a first draft coding technique using one or more natural language processing techniques and comparing the first text to the library storing a plurality of coding techniques.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the computer code, when executed by the one or more processors, is further configured to cause the system to: parse the first text to identify the first coding technique; generate a bag-of-words corresponding to the first coding technique based on the parsed first text; and send the first update to the database including the bag-of-words.
16. A method comprising: receiving a request to identify a coding expert, the request comprising first text of a draft implementation of a first algorithm from a user that is drafting the draft implementation of the first algorithm; querying a database to determine if the database comprises a first coding technique corresponding to the first algorithm, the database storing data indicative of algorithm functions and languages corresponding to a plurality of authors; responsive to receiving an indication that the database does not have the first machine-learning coding technique, updating the database to include data indicative of the first text and a name of each of one or more authors of the first text.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the first algorithm is a machine-learning algorithm and the first coding technique is a machine-learning coding technique, and wherein updating the database further comprises: analyzing the first text using one or more natural language processing techniques; and generating a model of the first text comprising one or more words associated with machine-learning algorithms.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining if the draft implementation comprises additional machine-learning coding techniques by comparing the first text to a library of machine-learning techniques terms; responsive to identifying a second coding technique based on the library of machine-learning coding techniques, updating the database to include data indicative of the second machine-learning coding technique; scraping a repository to identify a plurality of scripts comprising a plurality of machine-learning algorithms; identifying one or more authors associated with each machine-learning algorithm of the plurality of machine-learning algorithms based on information stored in the repository about the plurality of scripts; and storing data indicative of the plurality of machine-learning algorithms and the respective one or more authors in the database.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising; outputting, to an administration device, a request for verification that the additional machine-learning algorithms are of a particular type; and sending the second update responsive to receiving a verification from the administration device.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein receiving the first text comprises: recognizing, from the first text, a first draft machine-learning algorithm using one or more natural language processing techniques and comparing the first text to the library storing a plurality of machine-learning algorithms.
</claims>
</document>
