<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/06,G06K9/00,G08G1/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DENSO INTERNATIONAL AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAI, TING-YU
MUELLER, ANDREW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72607244
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PARKING A VEHICLE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and other embodiments described herein relate to auto-parking a vehicle in accordance with user preferences. In one embodiment, a disclosed system identifies an available parking space and one or more attributes of the available parking space based, at least in part, on information from one or more sensors. The system classifies the available parking space as a target parking space based, at least in part, on the one or more attributes satisfying a preference threshold defined according to one or more user-defined criteria that indicate characteristics of the target parking space. The system generates parking instructions configured to cause the subject vehicle to park in the target parking space.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicle control system for a subject vehicle, comprising: one or more sensors that output information describing an environment around the subject vehicle; one or more processors; and a memory communicably connected to the one or more processors and storing: a selection module including one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: identify an available parking space and one or more attributes of the available parking space based, at least in part, on the information from the one or more sensors, classify the available parking space as a target parking space based, at least in part, on the one or more attributes satisfying a preference threshold defined according to one or more user-defined criteria that indicate characteristics of the target parking space, and a parking module including one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to generate parking instructions configured to cause the subject vehicle to park in the target parking space.
2. The vehicle control system of claim 1, wherein the selection module identifies the one or more attributes by one or more of: i. retrieving metadata about the available parking space according to a current location of the vehicle, ii. using one or more machine perception components to analyze the information from the one or more sensors and identify signs proximate to the available parking space, characteristics of an environment near the available parking space, and/or markings on a surface of the available parking space, and iii. communicating with a parking facility system to retrieve the one or more attributes.
3. The vehicle control system of claim 1, wherein the one or more attributes indicate one or more of: i. physical characteristics of the available parking space, ii. contextual characteristics of the available parking space, and iii. regulatory characteristics of the available parking space.
4. The vehicle control system of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors includes a camera, and the parking module further includes instructions to provide a parking notification to an electronic device associated with a user of the subject vehicle, the parking notification requesting approval of the target parking space and including an image of the target parking space captured by the camera.
5. The vehicle control system of claim 1, further comprising a drive control module including one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to navigate the subject vehicle within a search zone, wherein the selection module identifies the available parking space within the search zone and the drive control module includes instructions to define boundaries of the search zone based on a user setting.
6. The vehicle control system of claim 5, wherein the drive control module further includes instructions to select new coordinates for the search zone when no available parking space is identified within prior coordinates for the search zone after a pre-determined amount of time.
7. The vehicle control system of claim 1, wherein the user-defined criteria defines one or more of: a preferred type of parking area, a preferred type of parking space, a designated object or location to park near, a designated object or location to avoid parking near, a maximum parking price amount, a preferred spacing around a parking space, and a preferred parking space size.
8. The vehicle control system of claim 7, wherein the user-defined criteria includes a prioritization ranking prioritizing separate ones of the user-defined criteria.
9. The vehicle control system of claim 1, wherein the selection module further includes instructions to determine whether the one or more attributes satisfy the preference threshold by determining whether a score for the available parking space surpasses the preference threshold, and wherein the selection module assigns weight values to the one or more attributes of the available parking space based, at least in part, on correspondence with the user-defined criteria and determines the score for the available parking space as a sum total of the weight values.
10. The vehicle control system of claim 9, wherein the selection module further includes instructions to: classify the available parking space as a potential parking space when the score does not surpass the preference threshold and does surpass a baseline threshold, and generate parking instructions configured to cause the subject vehicle to park in the potential parking space when no target parking space is found after a predetermined amount of time.
11. The vehicle control system of claim 1, wherein the selection module further includes instructions to classify the available parking space as a prohibited parking space based, at least in part, on the one or more attributes corresponding to one or more regulatory prohibitions, and to deny the prohibited parking space being classified as the target parking space.
12. A method of improving autonomous parking of a subject vehicle, comprising: identifying an available parking space and one or more attributes of the available parking space based, at least in part, on information from one or more sensors, classifying the available parking space as a target parking space based, at least in part, on the one or more attributes satisfying a preference threshold defined according to one or more user-defined criteria that indicate characteristics of the target parking space, and generating parking instructions configured to cause the subject vehicle to park in the target parking space.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein identifying the one or more attributes comprises one or more of: i. retrieving metadata about the available parking space according to a current location of the vehicle, ii. using one or more machine perception components to analyze the information from the one or more sensors and identify signs proximate to the available parking space, characteristics of an environment near the available parking space, and/or markings on a surface of the available parking space, and iii. communicating with a parking facility system to retrieve the one or more attributes.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the one or more attributes indicate one or more of: i. physical characteristics of the available parking space, ii. contextual characteristics of the available parking space, and iii. regulatory characteristics of the available parking space.
15. The method of claim 12, further comprising providing a parking notification to an electronic device associated with a user of the subject vehicle, the parking notification requesting approval of the target parking space and including an image of the target parking space.
16. The method of claim 12, further comprising: defining boundaries of a search zone based on a user setting; and navigating the subject vehicle autonomously within the search zone, wherein the available parking space is identified within the search zone.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising selecting new coordinates for the search zone when no available parking space is identified within prior coordinates for the search zone after a pre-determined amount of time.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium for controlling a subject vehicle and including instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: identify an available parking space and one or more attributes of the available parking space based, at least in part, on information from one or more sensors, classify the available parking space as a target parking space based, at least in part, on the one or more attributes satisfying a preference threshold defined according to one or more user-defined criteria that indicate characteristics of the target parking space, and generate parking instructions configured to cause the subject vehicle to park in the target parking space.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, further comprising instructions to: define boundaries of a search zone based on a user setting; and navigate the subject vehicle autonomously within the search zone, wherein the available parking space is identified within the search zone.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, further comprising instructions to select new coordinates for the search zone when no available parking space is identified within prior coordinates for the search zone after a pre-determined amount of time.
</claims>
</document>
