<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9535,G06F16/9538,G06F3/0482,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROTH, TALI
PALERMITI, II, MICHAEL FRANCIS
WEI, Yuan
FITZGERALD, Miles Cole
SUN, Wayne
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70334161
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROACTIVELY DISPLAYING RELEVANT INFORMATION RELATED TO AN EVENT ON A SEARCH PAGE
</title>

<abstract>
A method for proactively providing information to a user about an event involving the user includes receiving user input indicating a request to display a search page and displaying the search page in response to the user input. In addition, event information may be automatically obtained and displayed on the search page in response to the user input. Some examples of event information that may be provided include participant information about a participant in the event other than the user, file information about a file that is relevant to the event, and conversation information about a conversation that is relevant to the event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-readable medium comprising instructions that are executable by one or more processors to cause a computing system to: receive user input indicating a request to display a search page; display the search page in response to the user input; automatically obtain, in response to the user input, event information about an event involving a user; and automatically display the event information on the search page.
2. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the event information comprises at least one of: participant information about a participant in the event other than the user; file information about a file that is relevant to the event; or conversation information about a conversation that is relevant to the event.
3. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, further comprising additional instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to cause the computing system to: display a user interface element associated with the event information; receive additional user input selecting the user interface element; and display additional event information in response to the additional user input selecting the user interface element.
4. The computer-readable medium of claim 3, wherein: the event information comprises a message notifying the user that there will be at least one potential new contact at the event; and the additional event information comprises at least one of a name of a participant in the event, a title of the participant, a department in which the participant works, or contact information for the participant.
5. The computer-readable medium of claim 3, wherein: the event information comprises a message about a file that the user should review prior to the event; and the additional event information comprises at least one of a filename corresponding to the file or a preview of the file.
6. The computer-readable medium of claim 3, wherein: the event information comprises a message about an email conversation that the user should review prior to the event; and the additional event information comprises at least one of a subject line associated with the email conversation or at least some portion of a message body of an email message belonging to the email conversation.
7. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein: the event is an upcoming event; and the computer-readable medium further comprises additional instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to cause the computing system to display a shortcut action associated with the event.
8. The computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein: the event is a past event; and the computer-readable medium further comprises additional instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to cause the computing system to display a summary of the event.
9. A method for proactively providing information to a user about an event involving the user, comprising: receiving user input indicating a request to display a search page; displaying the search page in response to the user input; automatically obtain, in response to the user input, event information about the event involving the user; and automatically displaying the event information on the search page.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the event information comprises at least one of: participant information about a participant in the event other than the user; file information about a file that is relevant to the event; or conversation information about a conversation that is relevant to the event.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: displaying a user interface element associated with the event information; receiving additional user input selecting the user interface element; and displaying additional event information in response to the additional user input selecting the user interface element.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein: the event information comprises a message notifying the user that there will be at least one potential new contact at the event; and the additional event information comprises at least one of a name of a participant in the event, a title of the participant, a department in which the participant works, or contact information for the participant.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein: the event information comprises a message about a file that the user should review prior to the event; and the additional event information comprises at least one of a filename corresponding to the file or a preview of the file.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein: the event information comprises a message about an email conversation that the user should review prior to the event; and the additional event information comprises at least one of a subject line associated with the email conversation or at least some portion of a message body of an email message belonging to the email conversation.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein: the event is an upcoming event; and the method further comprises displaying a shortcut action associated with the event.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein: the event is a past event; and the method further comprises displaying a summary of the event.
17. A system for proactively providing information to a user about an event involving the user, comprising: one or more processors; memory in electronic communication with the one or more processors; and instructions stored in the memory, the instructions being executable by the one or more processors to: receive user input indicating a request to display a search page; display the search page in response to the user input; automatically obtain, in response to the user input, event information about the event involving the user; and automatically display the event information on the search page.
18. The system of claim 17, further comprising additional instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to: display a user interface element associated with the event information; receive additional user input selecting the user interface element; and display additional event information in response to the additional user input selecting the user interface element.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein: the event information comprises a message notifying the user that there will be at least one potential new contact at the event; and the additional event information comprises at least one of a name of a participant in the event, a title of the participant, a department in which the participant works, or contact information for the participant.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein: the event information comprises an indication about a file or a conversation that the user should review prior to the event; and the additional event information comprises at least one of a filename corresponding to the file, a preview of the file, or at least some portion of a message body of a message belonging to the conversation.
</claims>
</document>
