<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10,G06Q20/38,G06Q20/40,G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
AZNAURASHVILI, ZVIAD
BLANCHET, STEVE
JOUHIKAINEN, HANNES
SHERIF, TIMUR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69406210
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for managing electronic tip data to provide merchant reviews
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments provide systems, methods, and techniques for managing merchandising cards. A merchandising card may be, for example, a gift card, loyalty card, or the like. Consistent disclosed embodiments, a system for managing merchandising cards may include one or more memory devices storing instructions and one or more processors configured to acquire, from a device over a network, a plurality of locations associated with the device, the device locations being acquired at different instances in time within a predetermined period of time. Additionally, the processor may be configured to calculate a merchant confidence rating for a merchant using the device locations. Further, the one or more processors may be configured to, based on the merchant confidence rating, determine that the merchant matches a merchant that is associated with merchandising card, and send a reminder a user of the device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more memory devices for storing instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute instructions to: in response to receiving information associated with a transaction card of a user used to complete a transaction at a merchant associated with a merchant system: receive, from the merchant system, authorization data, the authorization data being associated with the transaction and identifying a location associated with the merchant; and receive, from the merchant system, posted transaction data, the posted transaction data corresponding to the authorization data; and in response to receiving the authorization data and the posted transaction data: retrieve merchant review data for the merchant; determine a tip amount associated with the transaction, based on the authorization data and the posted transaction data; retrieve historical tip data associated with the user, the historical tip data associated with the user comprising historical tip amounts associated with the user; select at least a portion of the historical tip data associated with the user based on the location; normalize the selected portion of the historical tip data associated with the user; retrieve historical tip data associated with other users, the historical tip data associated with the other users comprising historical tip amounts associated with the other users; select at least a portion of the historical tip data associated with the other users based on the location; normalize the selected portion of the historical tip data associated with the other users; determine a user sentiment value for the merchant based on the normalized historical tip data associated with the user and the normalized historical tip data associated with the other users, the user sentiment value representing a user sentiment for the merchant; modify the merchant review data based on the user sentiment value; and provide the merchant review data to a consumer system.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the merchant review data comprises subjective merchant review data and objective merchant review data.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the posted transaction data comprises transaction card data associated with a transaction card of the user.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the merchant review data comprises at least one of a percentage, a number, a star rating, or a range.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the merchant review data indicates at least one of an excellent rating, a good rating, an average rating, or a below-average rating.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the consumer system hosts at least one of a website or an application programmable interface, the website or the application programmable interface providing recommendations to its users.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the authorization data comprises an authorization amount, and the posted transaction data comprises a posted transaction amount.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein instructions to determine a tip amount associated with the transaction further comprise instructions to calculate the tip amount by subtracting the authorization amount from the posted transaction amount.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to provide the user sentiment value to the merchant system.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein instructions to determine the user sentiment value for the merchant further comprise instructions to: select a portion of the historical tip data associated with the user based on a merchant attribute associated with the merchant; select a portion of the historical tip data associated with the other users based on the merchant attribute associated with the merchant; and determine the user sentiment value by comparing the tip amount to the historical tip data associated with the user and to the historical tip data associated with the other users.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the merchant attribute includes at least one of a merchant category, a merchant rating, a dining type, a merchant location category, a merchant geographic category, a merchant cost category, or a merchant customer description.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein instructions to select a portion of the historical tip data associated with the user based on a merchant attribute associated with the merchant further comprise instructions to select the portion of the historical tip data associated with the user further based on at least one of a date range, a time range, or a location range.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein instructions to determine the user sentiment value by comparing the tip amount to the historical tip data associated with the user and to the historical tip data associated with the other users comprise instructions to: determine the user sentiment value as a first sentiment if the tip amount is above a first confidence interval; determine the user sentiment value as a second sentiment if the tip amount is between a first confidence interval and a second confidence interval; and determine the user sentiment value as a third sentiment if the tip amount is below the second confidence interval.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the historical tip data associated with the user is normalized using a Gaussian distribution.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the first sentiment corresponds to an excellent sentiment, the second sentiment corresponds to an average sentiment, and the third sentiment corresponds to a below-average sentiment.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the first confidence interval is any percentile above the 50th percentile, and the second confidence interval is any percentile below the 50th percentile.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions to modify the merchant review data based on the user sentiment value comprise instructions to: normalize the merchant review data associated with merchant, the merchant having an overall sentiment value; and adjust the overall sentiment value based on the user sentiment value.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the overall sentiment value is calculated using a weighted average formula.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein instructions to adjust the overall sentiment value based on the user sentiment value comprise instructions to: adjust the overall sentiment value based on the user sentiment value using the weighted average formula, the weighted average formula including the user sentiment value.
20. A system comprising: one or more memory devices for storing instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute instructions to: receive, from a consumer system, a recommendation request, the recommendation request comprising historical merchant review data associated with a merchant and identifying a location associated with the merchant; in response to receiving the recommendation request: retrieve authorization data associated with a transaction made using a transaction card of a user at a merchant device associated with the merchant; retrieve posted transaction data, the posted transaction data corresponding to the authorization data; retrieve merchant review data for the merchant; determine a tip amount associated with the transaction based on the authorization data and the posted transaction data; retrieve historical tip data associated with the user, the historical tip data associated with the user comprising historical tip amounts associated with the user; select at least a portion of the historical tip data associated with the user based on the location; normalize the selected portion of the historical tip data associated with the user; retrieve historical tip data associated with other users, the historical tip data associated with the other users comprising historical tip amounts associated with the other users; select at least a portion of the historical tip data associated with the other users based on the location; normalize the selected portion of the historical tip data associated with the other users; determine a user sentiment value for the merchant based on the normalized historical tip data associated with the user and the normalized historical tip data associated with the other users, the user sentiment value representing a user sentiment for the merchant; modify the merchant review data based on the user sentiment value; and provide the merchant review data to the consumer system.
</claims>
</document>
