<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/04,A61B5/0452
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDTRONIC
</assignee>

<inventors>
KATRA, RODOLPHE
HADDAD, TAREK D.
DANI, SIDDHARTH
RADTKE, ANDREW
Chakravarthy, Niranjan
Musgrove, Donald R.
Pedalty, Lindsay A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046206
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PERSONALIZATION OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE MODELS FOR ANALYSIS OF CARDIAC RHYTHMS
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are disclosed for monitoring a patient for the occurrence of cardiac arrhythmias. A computing system obtains a cardiac electrogram (EGM) strip for a current patient. Additionally, the computing system may apply a first cardiac rhythm classifier (CRC) with a segment of the cardiac EGM strip as input. The first CRC is trained on training cardiac EGM strips from a first population. The first CRC generates first data regarding an aspect of a cardiac rhythm of the current patient. The computing system may also apply a second CRC with the segment of the cardiac EGM strip as input. The second CRC is trained on training cardiac EGM strips from a smaller, second population. The second CRC generates second data regarding the aspect of the cardiac rhythm of the current patient. The computing system may generate output data based on the first and/or second data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining, by a computing system, a cardiac electrogram (EGM) strip for a current patient; applying, by the computing system, a first cardiac rhythm classifier neural network (CRC) with a segment of the cardiac EGM strip as input, wherein: the first CRC is trained on training cardiac EGM strips from a first population that includes a plurality of patients, the first CRC generates, based on the segment of the cardiac EGM strip, first data regarding an aspect of a cardiac rhythm of the current patient; applying, by the computing system, a second CRC with the segment of the cardiac EGM strip as input, wherein: the second CRC is a version of the first CRC that is trained on training cardiac EGM strips from a second population that is smaller than the first population, the second CRC generates, based on the segment of the cardiac EGM strip, second data regarding the aspect of the cardiac rhythm of the current patient; and generating, by the computing system, output data based on the first data and the second data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second population consists of the current patient.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the second population is a cohort of patients sharing one or more characteristics with the current patient.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more characteristics include a diagnosis of the cohort of patients and the current patient.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein: the method further comprises applying, by the computing system, a third CRC with the cardiac EGM strip as input, wherein: the third CRC is a version of the first CRC that is trained based on the training cardiac EGM strips from the first population and further trained based only on training cardiac EGM strips from the current patient, and the third CRC generates, based on the segment of cardiac EGM strip, third data regarding the aspect of the cardiac rhythm of the current patient, and generating the output data comprises generating the output data based on the first data, the second data, and the third data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein: the aspect of the cardiac rhythm of the current patient is an occurrence of an occurrence of a cardiac arrhythmia in the cardiac rhythm of the current patient, the first data is based on a first probability that the segment of the cardiac EGM strip represents at least one occurrence of the cardiac arrhythmia, and the second data is based on a second probability that the segment of the cardiac EGM strip represents at least one occurrence of the cardiac arrhythmia.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein: the aspect of the cardiac rhythm of the current patient is a morphological aspect of occurrences of a cardiac arrhythmia that occur in the cardiac rhythm of the current patient, the first data comprises first data regarding the morphological aspect of an occurrence of the cardiac arrhythmia represented in the segment of the cardiac EGM strip, the second data comprises second data regarding the morphological aspect of the occurrence of the cardiac arrhythmia represented in the segment of the cardiac EGM strip, and the output data comprises data comparing the first data regarding the morphological aspect of the occurrence and the second data regarding the morphological aspect of the occurrence.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating second output data based on a comparison of the second data to historical data generated by the second CRC based on earlier cardiac EGM strips from the current patient.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein: the first CRC generates an output vector, and the method further comprises generating, by the computing system, the second CRC by training an instance of the first CRC based only on cardiac EGM strips from the second population, wherein generating the second CRC comprises, for each respective segment of each respective cardiac EGM strip from the second population: applying, by the computing system, the first CRC to the respective segment of the respective cardiac EGM strip to generate a first output vector for the respective cardiac EGM strip; applying, by the computing system, the second CRC to the respective segment of the respective cardiac EGM strip to generate a second output vector for the respective cardiac EGM strip; determining, by the computing system, whether the second output vector for the respective segment of the respective cardiac EGM strip is more accurate than the first output vector for the respective cardiac EGM strip; updating, by the computing system, parameters of the second CRC based on whether the second output vector for the cardiac EGM strip is more accurate than the first output vector for the respective cardiac EGM strip, wherein: the computing system is configured to update the parameters of the second CRC when the second output vector for the cardiac EGM strip is more accurate than the first output vector for the respective cardiac EGM strip, and the computing system is configured to not update the parameters of the second CRC when the second output vector for the cardiac EGM strip is not more accurate than the first output vector for the respective cardiac EGM strip.
10. A computing system comprising: a storage medium configured to store a cardiac electrogram (EGM) strip for a current patient; and processing circuitry configured to: apply a first cardiac rhythm classifier neural network (CRC) with a segment of the cardiac EGM strip as input, wherein: the first CRC is trained on training cardiac EGM strips from a first population that includes a plurality of patients, the first CRC generates, based on the segment of the cardiac EGM strip, first data regarding an aspect of a cardiac rhythm of the current patient; apply a second CRC with the segment of the cardiac EGM strip as input, wherein: the second CRC is a version of the first CRC that is trained on training cardiac EGM strips from a second population that is smaller than the first population, the second CRC generates, based on the segment of the cardiac EGM strip, second data regarding the aspect of the cardiac rhythm of the current patient; and generate output data based on the first data and the second data.
11. The computing system of claim 10, wherein the second population consists of the current patient.
12. The computing system of claim 10, wherein the second population is a cohort of patients sharing one or more characteristics with the current patient.
13. The computing system of claim 12, wherein the one or more characteristics include a diagnosis of the cohort of patients and the current patient.
14. The computing system of claim 12, wherein: the processing circuitry is further configured to apply a third CRC with the cardiac EGM strip as input, wherein: the third CRC is a version of the first CRC that is trained based on the training cardiac EGM strips from the first population and further trained based only on training cardiac EGM strips from the current patient, and the third CRC generates, based on the segment of cardiac EGM strip, third data regarding the aspect of the cardiac rhythm of the current patient, and the processing circuitry is configured such that, as part of generating the output data, the processing circuitry generates the output data based on the first data, the second data, and the third data.
15. The computing system of claim 10, wherein: the aspect of the cardiac rhythm of the current patient is an occurrence of an occurrence of a cardiac arrhythmia in the cardiac rhythm of the current patient, the first data is based on a first probability that the segment of the cardiac EGM strip represents at least one occurrence of the cardiac arrhythmia, and the second data is based on a second probability that the segment of the cardiac EGM strip represents at least one occurrence of the cardiac arrhythmia.
16. The computing system of claim 10, wherein: the aspect of the cardiac rhythm of the current patient is a morphological aspect of occurrences of a cardiac arrhythmia that occur in the cardiac rhythm of the current patient, the first data comprises first data regarding the morphological aspect of an occurrence of the cardiac arrhythmia represented in the segment of the cardiac EGM strip, the second data comprises second data regarding the morphological aspect of the occurrence of the cardiac arrhythmia represented in the segment of the cardiac EGM strip, and the output data comprises data comparing the first data regarding the morphological aspect of the occurrence and the second data regarding the morphological aspect of the occurrence.
17. The computing system of claim 10, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: generate second output data based on a comparison of the second data to historical data generated by the second CRC based on earlier cardiac EGM strips from the current patient.
18. The computing system of claim 10, wherein: the first CRC generates an output vector, and the computing system is further configured to generate the second CRC by training an instance of the first CRC based only on cardiac EGM strips from the second population, wherein the processing circuitry is configured such that, as part of generating the second CRC, the processing circuitry, for each respective segment of each respective cardiac EGM strip from the second population: applies the first CRC to the respective segment of the respective cardiac EGM strip to generate a first output vector for the respective cardiac EGM strip; applies the second CRC to the respective segment of the respective cardiac EGM strip to generate a second output vector for the respective cardiac EGM strip; determines whether the second output vector for the respective segment of the respective cardiac EGM strip is more accurate than the first output vector for the respective cardiac EGM strip; updates parameters of the second CRC based on whether the second output vector for the cardiac EGM strip is more accurate than the first output vector for the respective cardiac EGM strip, wherein: the processing circuitry is configured to update the parameters of the second CRC when the second output vector for the cardiac EGM strip is more accurate than the first output vector for the respective cardiac EGM strip, and the processing circuitry is configured to not update the parameters of the second CRC when the second output vector for the cardiac EGM strip is not more accurate than the first output vector for the respective cardiac EGM strip.
19. A computer-readable data storage medium having instructions stored thereon that, when executed, cause a computing system to: obtain a cardiac electrogram (EGM) strip for a current patient; apply a first cardiac rhythm classifier neural network (CRC) with a segment of the cardiac EGM strip as input, wherein: the first CRC is trained on training cardiac EGM strips from a first population that includes a plurality of patients, the first CRC generates, based on the segment of the cardiac EGM strip, first data regarding an aspect of a cardiac rhythm of the current patient; apply a second CRC with the segment of the cardiac EGM strip as input, wherein: the second CRC is a version of the first CRC that is trained on training cardiac EGM strips from a second population that is smaller than the first population, the second CRC generates, based on the segment of the cardiac EGM strip, second data regarding the aspect of the cardiac rhythm of the current patient; and generate output data based on the first data and the second data.
</claims>
</document>
