<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F16/2453,G06F16/2455
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING DIDI INFINITY TECHNOLOGY AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAO, LIFENG
CHANG, ZHIHUA
LI, ZANG
LING, HONGBO
YANG FAN
YANG WENJUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64501904
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for data processing
</title>

<abstract>
A method for querying data is provided. The method may include determining a characteristic value of a selected feature dimension among feature values of the selected feature dimension of plurality of entities and establishing a corresponding relationship between the characteristic value and the selected feature dimension. The method may also include caching the corresponding feature value into a cache memory for each entity having a feature value of the selected feature dimension being unequal to the characteristic value, and leaving the corresponding feature value without caching for each entity having a feature value of the selected feature dimension being equal to the characteristic value. The method may further include performing a first search in the cache memory to produce a first search result in response to a query request related to the plurality of entities, and generating a query result based on the corresponding relationship and the first search result.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for querying data, comprising: at least one storage medium including a set of instructions and feature information of a plurality of entities, the feature information including at least one feature dimension for each entity, and at least one feature value for each feature dimension; a cache memory for storing data; at least one processor in communication with the at least one storage medium and the cache memory; wherein when executing the set of instructions, the at least one processor is configured to direct the system to: determine a characteristic value of a selected feature dimension among the feature values of the selected feature dimension of the plurality of entities and establish a corresponding relationship between the characteristic value and the selected feature dimension; for each entity having a feature value of the selected feature dimension being unequal to the characteristic value, cache the corresponding feature value of the selected feature dimension into the cache memory; for each entity having a feature value of the selected feature dimension being equal to the characteristic value, leave the corresponding feature value of the selected feature dimension without caching; in response to a query request related to the plurality of entities, perform a first search in the cache memory to produce a first search result; and generate a query result based on the corresponding relationship and the first search result.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein to determine the characteristic value of the selected feature dimension, the at least one processor is further configured to direct the system to: determine a mode of the feature values of the selected feature dimension of plurality of entities as the characteristic value of the selected feature dimension.
3. The system of claim 1, the at least one processor is further configured to direct the system to: update the feature information of the plurality of entities in the at least one storage medium; and determine an updated characteristic value of the selected feature dimension based on the updated feature information.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein to generate the query result, the at least one processor is further configured to direct the system to: replace one or more empty returns for the selected feature dimension in the first search result with the characteristic value.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein to generate the query result, the at least one processor is further configured to direct the system to: determine whether the first search result includes an empty return; in response to a determination that the first search result includes an empty return, cache the characteristic value of the selected feature dimension into the cache memory based on the corresponding relationship for each entity whose selected feature dimension having an empty entry; perform a second search in the cache memory in response to the query request to produce a second search result; and generate the query result based on the second search result.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein to perform the first search in the cache memory in response to the query request, the at least one processor is further configured to direct the system to: determine whether the query request is related to the selected feature dimension and the corresponding characteristic value; in response to a determination that the query request is related to the selected feature dimension and the corresponding characteristic value, update the query request, the updated query request including the feature dimension and an empty entry; and perform the first search in the cache memory based on the updated query request.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein to perform the first search in the cache memory in response to the query request, the at least one processor is further configured to direct the system to: determine whether the query request is related to the selected feature dimension; in response to a determination that the query request is related to the selected feature dimension, cache the characteristic value of the selected feature dimension into the cache memory for each entity whose selected feature dimension has an empty entry; and perform the first search in the cache memory in response to the query request.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein to perform the first search in the cache memory in response to the query request, the at least one processor is further configured to direct the system to: in response to the query request, cache the characteristic value of the selected feature dimension into the cache memory for each entity whose selected feature dimension has an empty entry; and perform the first search in the cache memory.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of entities includes at least one of service requesters, service providers, or service orders in an Online to Offline (O2O) service system.
10. A method implemented on a computing device having at least one processor, at least one storage medium, a cache memory, and a communication platform connected to a network, the at least one storage medium including feature information of a plurality of entities, the feature information including at least one feature dimension for each entity, and at least one feature value for each feature dimension, the method comprising: determine a characteristic value of a selected feature dimension among the feature values of the selected feature dimension of the plurality of entities and establish a corresponding relationship between the characteristic value and the selected feature dimension; for each entity having a feature value of the selected feature dimension being unequal to the characteristic value, caching the corresponding feature value of the selected feature dimension into the cache memory; for each entity having a feature value of the selected feature dimension being equal to the characteristic value, leaving the corresponding feature value of the selected feature dimension without caching; in response to a query request related to the plurality of entities, performing a first search in the cache memory to produce a first search result; and generating a query result based on the corresponding relationship and the first search result.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein determining the characteristic value of the selected feature dimension comprises: determining a mode of the feature values of the selected feature dimension of plurality of entities as the characteristic value of the selected feature dimension.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising: updating the feature information of the plurality of entities in the at least one storage medium; and determining an updated characteristic value of the selected feature dimension based on the updated feature information.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein generating the query result comprises: replacing one or more empty returns for the selected feature dimension in the first search result with the characteristic value.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein generating the query result further comprises: determining whether the first search result includes an empty return; in response to a determination that the first search result includes an empty return, caching the characteristic value of the selected feature dimension into the cache memory based on the corresponding relationship for each entity whose selected feature dimension having an empty entry; performing a second search in the cache memory in response to the query request to produce a second search result; and generating the query result based on the second search result.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein performing the first search in the cache memory in response to the query request comprises: determining whether the query request is related to the selected feature dimension and the corresponding characteristic value; in response to a determination that the query request is related to the selected feature dimension and the corresponding characteristic value, updating the query request, the updated query request including the feature dimension and an empty entry; and performing the first search in the cache memory based on the updated query request.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein performing the first search in the cache memory in response to the query request further comprises: determining whether the query request is related to the selected feature dimension; in response to a determination that the query request is related to the selected feature dimension, caching the characteristic value of the selected feature dimension into the cache memory for each entity whose selected feature dimension has an empty entry; and performing the first search in the cache memory in response to the query request.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein performing the first search in the cache memory in response to the query request further comprises: in response to the query request, caching the characteristic value of the selected feature dimension into the cache memory for each entity whose selected feature dimension has an empty entry; and performing the first search in the cache memory.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of entities includes at least one of service requesters, service providers, or service orders in an Online to Offline (O2O) service system.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium embodying a computer program product, the computer program product comprising instructions configured to cause a computing device to: determine a characteristic value of a selected feature dimension among a plurality of feature values of the selected feature dimension of a plurality of entities and establish a corresponding relationship between the characteristic value and the selected feature dimension; for each entity having a feature value of the selected feature dimension being unequal to the characteristic value, cache the corresponding feature value of the selected feature dimension into a cache memory; for each entity having a feature value of the selected feature dimension being equal to the characteristic value, leave the corresponding feature value of the selected feature dimension without caching; in response to a query request related to the plurality of entities, perform a first search in the cache memory to produce a first search result; and generate a query result based on the corresponding relationship and the first search result.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein to determine the characteristic value of the selected feature dimension, the computer program product comprising instructions configured to cause the computing device to: determine a mode of the feature values of the selected feature dimension of plurality of entities as the characteristic value of the selected feature dimension.
</claims>
</document>
