<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34,G01C21/36,G06Q10/02,G08G1/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HONDA MOTOR COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
NOGUCHI, JUNPEI
TAGUCHI, RYOMA
TAKADA, YUTA
SUGIHARA, CHIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73221878
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PARKING LOT MANAGEMENT APPARATUS, PARKING LOT MANAGEMENT METHOD, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A parking lot management apparatus according to an aspect of the present invention is a parking lot management apparatus including a processor a memory storing program instructions executable by the processor to receive designation of an exit reservation time at which a vehicle will exit a parking lot and confirm presence or absence of the designation of the exit reservation time for a vehicle intended to be parked in the parking lot, wherein receiving designation of the exit reservation time with respect to an unreserved vehicle for which to confirm that the exit reservation time has not been designated before a user alights from the vehicle to be parked in the parking lot.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A parking lot management apparatus comprising: a processor; and a memory storing program instructions executable by the processor to: receive designation of an exit reservation time at which a vehicle will exit a parking lot; and confirm presence or absence of the designation of the exit reservation time for a vehicle to be parked in the parking lot, wherein receiving the designation of the exit reservation time comprises receiving the designation of the exit reservation time with respect to an unreserved vehicle for which it is confirmed that the exit reservation time has not been designated before a user alights from the unreserved vehicle to be parked in the parking lot.
2. The parking lot management apparatus according to claim 1, wherein receiving the designation of the exit reservation time comprises receiving the designation of the exit reservation time in a case where the unreserved vehicle is in congestion which occurs in front of an alighting place.
3. The parking lot management apparatus according to claim 1, wherein receiving the designation of the exit reservation time comprises receiving the designation of the exit reservation time from an on-board input device provided in the vehicle or a terminal input device provided in a terminal device possessed by a user of the vehicle.
4. The parking lot management apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the processor to: guide the vehicle to a target position, and in a case where the exit reservation time of the unreserved vehicle is reserved at an alighting place where a user alights, in front of which congestion does not occur, guiding the vehicle to the target position comprises starting guidance of the unreserved vehicle after receiving the designation of the exit reservation time from the on-board input device or the terminal input device.
5. The parking lot management apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the processor to assign different usage conditions of the parking lot according to presence or absence of designation of the exit reservation time, and in a case where the designation of the exit reservation time of the unreserved vehicle is not received from the on-board input device or the terminal input device, assigning the usage conditions comprises causing the unreserved vehicle to be parked under usage conditions in a case where it is confirmed that there is no designation of the exit reservation time.
6. The parking lot management apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the processor not to start the guidance of the unreserved vehicle in a case where the designation of the exit reservation time of the unreserved vehicle is not received from the on-board input device or the terminal input device.
7. The parking lot management apparatus according to claim 3, wherein: the program instructions are further executable by the processor to give notification of information; and in a case where the unreserved vehicle in congestion is to be parked in the parking lot, giving the notification comprises giving notification of a request for designation of the exit reservation time to the on-board input device before giving the notification to the terminal input device.
8. The parking lot management apparatus according to claim 7, wherein, in a case where the unreserved vehicle is to be parked in the parking lot in the alighting place where the user alights, in front of which congestion is not occurring, giving the notification comprises giving notification of a request for designation of the exit reservation time to the terminal input device after the user has alighted from the unreserved vehicle.
9. The parking lot management apparatus according to claim 8, wherein, in a case where input of the exit reservation time from the user has been received before the user alights from the unreserved vehicle, the program instructions are further executable by the processor not to give the notification of the request for designation of the exit reservation time to the terminal input device and give the notification of information related to the receive exit reservation time to the terminal input device.
10. The parking lot management apparatus according to claim 2, wherein: the program instructions are further executable by the processor to give notification of information; and in a case where it is confirmed that the exit reservation time has been designated and a reserved vehicle in the congestion is to be parked in the parking lot, giving the notification comprises giving notification of the confirmed exit reservation time to the reserved vehicle.
11. The parking lot management apparatus according to claim 10, wherein: in a case where confirmation information transmitted from a user who has received the notification of the exit reservation time is acquired, giving the notification comprises giving notification of useful information useful for the user to the user.
12. A parking lot management method, using a computer, comprising: receiving designation of an exit reservation time at which a vehicle will exit a parking lot; and confirming presence or absence of designation of the exit reservation time for a vehicle intended to be parked in the parking lot, wherein receiving the designation of the exit reservation time comprises receiving the designation of the exit reservation time in a case where an unreserved vehicle for which it is confirmed that the exit reservation time has not been designated is in congestion which occurs in front of an alighting place where a user alights from a vehicle to be parked in the parking lot.
13. A computer-readable non-transitory storage medium storing a program causing a computer to: receive designation of an exit reservation time at which a vehicle will exit a parking lot; and confirm presence or absence of designation of the exit reservation time for a vehicle intended to be parked in the parking lot, wherein receiving the designation of the exit reservation time comprises receiving the designation of the exit reservation time in a case where an unreserved vehicle for which it is confirmed that the exit reservation time has not been designated is in congestion which occurs in front of an alighting place where a user alights from a vehicle to be parked in the parking lot.
</claims>
</document>
