<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16B20/00,G16B25/10,G16B40/00,G16B45/00,G16B50/30,G16H50/50,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BERG
</assignee>

<inventors>
AKMAEV, VIATCHESLAV R.
MILLER, GREGORY MARK
NARAIN, NIVEN, RAJIN
RODRIGUES, LEONARDO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60578130
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PATIENT STRATIFICATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF POTENTIAL BIOMARKERS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are methods and systems for identifying one or more potential biomarkers for a clinical outcome related to administration of an agent. The method includes processing molecular profile data for a plurality of subjects where the molecular profile data includes data obtained before, during and/or after administration of an agent to the plurality of subjects. The method also includes processing clinical records data for the subjects, where the clinical records data includes clinical outcome data, integrating the processed molecular profile data and the processed clinical records data for the subjects and storing in a database as merged data, selecting two or more subsets of the merged data using one or more criteria based on the clinical records data to generate two or more selected data sets, and analyzing one or more of the selected data sets to identify one or more potential biomarkers for a clinical outcome related to administration of the agent.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: processing molecular profile data for each subject in a plurality of subjects, the molecular profile data for each subject comprising one or more of proteomics, metabolomics, lipidomics, genomics, transcriptomics, microarray and sequencing data generated from analysis of a plurality of samples obtained from the subject; the plurality of samples for each subject including samples obtained before, during, and/or after administration of an agent to the subject; processing clinical records data for each of the plurality of subjects, the clinical records data for each subject including data based on one or both of samples obtained from the subject and measurements made of the subject before, during, and/or after administration of the agent, the clinical records data comprising clinical outcome data; integrating the processed molecular profile data and the processed clinical records data for the plurality of subjects and storing in a database as merged data; selecting two or more subsets of the merged data using one or more criteria based on the clinical records data to generate two or more selected data sets; and analyzing one or more of the selected data sets to identify one or more potential biomarkers for a clinical outcome related to administration of the agent.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising, administering the agent to the plurality of subjects.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising, for each subject, analyzing the plurality of samples obtained from the subject to obtain the molecular profile data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the clinical records data further comprises one or more of pharmacokinetics data, medical history data, laboratory test data, data from a mobile wearable device, and demographic information regarding the subject.
5. (canceled)
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more selected data sets are analyzed using one or more of statistical methods, machine learning methods, and artificial intelligence methods to identify the one or more potential biomarkers for the clinical outcome related to administration of the agent.
7. (canceled)
8. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing one or more of the selected data sets to identify the one or more potential biomarkers for the clinical outcome related to administration of the agent comprises: generating one or more causal relationship networks based on one or more of the selected data sets; and analyzing the generated one or more causal relationship networks to identify nodes corresponding to one or more outcome drivers.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein analyzing the generated causal relationship networks to identify nodes corresponding to the one or more outcome drivers includes identifying as outcome drivers variables corresponding to nodes connected to the clinical outcome in one or more of the generated causal relationship networks by relationships having a degree of connection equal to or less than n, wherein n is 10 or 9 or 8 or 7 or 6 or 5 or 4 or 3 or 2 or 1.
10. 10.-11. (canceled)
12. The method of claim 8, wherein analyzing the generated causal relationship networks to identify nodes corresponding to the one or more outcome drivers includes analysis of network topology features of the one or more generated causal relationship networks.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the generated two or more selected data sets comprise a first plurality of selected data sets each corresponding to a subject that exhibited the clinical outcome and a second plurality of selected data sets each corresponding to a subject that did not exhibit the first clinical outcome; wherein generating the one or more causal relationship networks based on one or more of the selected data sets includes: generating a first plurality of causal relationship networks each based on one of the first plurality of selected data sets corresponding to subjects that exhibited the clinical outcome, and generating a second plurality of causal relationship networks each based on one of the second plurality of selected data sets corresponding to subjects that did not exhibit the clinical outcome; and wherein analyzing the generated causal relationship networks to identify nodes corresponding to one or more outcome drivers includes: identifying one or more first commonalities among first plurality of causal relationship networks, identifying one or more second commonalities among the second plurality of causal relationship networks, and comparing the first commonalities and the second commonalities to identify the one or more outcome drivers.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the generated two or more selected data sets comprise a first selected data set including data corresponding to one or more subjects that exhibited the clinical outcome and a second selected data set including data corresponding to one or more subjects that did not exhibit the clinical outcome; wherein generating the one or more causal relationship networks based on at least some of the selected data sets includes: generating a first causal relationship network based on the first selected data set corresponding to subjects that exhibited the clinical outcome, and generating a second causal relationship network based on the second selected data set corresponding to subject that did not exhibit the clinical outcome, and wherein the one or more outcome drivers are identified based on a comparison of the first causal relationship network to the second causal relationship network.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the comparison of the first causal relationship network to the second causal relationship network includes generation of a differential causal relationship from the first causal relationship network and the second causal relationship network, and wherein the one or more outcome drivers are identified from the generated differential causal relationship network.
16. 16.-17. (canceled)
18. The method of claim 8, wherein the generated two or more selected data sets includes a first selected data set including data from subjects that exhibited the clinical outcome and a second sliced data including to data from subjects that did not exhibit the clinical outcome; and wherein analyzing one or more of the selected data sets to identify one or more potential biomarkers for a clinical outcome related to administration of the agent further comprises identifying one or more variables differentially expressed between first selected data set and the second selected data set at a statistically significant level.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the first selected data set and the second selected data set correspond to the same time point or the same range of time points relative to a time of administration of an agent.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein identifying the one or more variables differentially expressed between first selected data set and the second selected data set at a statistically significant level employs a two-sample t-test or limma methodology or performing a regression analysis.
21. (canceled)
22. The method of claim 18, wherein analyzing one or more of the selected data sets to identify one or more potential biomarkers for a clinical outcome related to administration of the agent further comprises: employing machine learning to analyze the identified outcome drivers and the one or more differentially expressed variables as possible biomarkers and, based on the analysis, selecting a subset of the possible biomarkers as the one or more potential biomarkers, wherein the machine learning penalizes possible biomarkers that are strongly correlated with other possible biomarkers and rewards possible biomarkers based on a level of correlation with the clinical outcome, thereby identifying one or more potential biomarkers for the clinical outcome.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the machine learning employed to analyze the possible biomarkers applies logistic regression with the elastic net penalty.
24. The method of claim 1, wherein integrating the processed molecular profile data and the processed clinical records data for the plurality of subjects and storing in the database as merged data comprises storing the merged data in a master file that includes a subject identification and a time associated with each sample.
25. The method of claim 1, wherein linear interpolation is used to determine interpolated values of at least some clinical records data at times corresponding to those associated with molecular profile samples.
26. The method of claim 8, further comprising: generating an in silico computational diagnostic patient map for determination of a subject response from analysis of topological features of the generated causal relationship networks.
27. (canceled)
28. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more potential biomarkers are potential biomarkers for agent efficacy or for an adverse event.
29. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is a method for identifying one or more potential biomarkers for efficacy of the agent in treatment of a disease or a disorder or for the occurrence of an adverse event related to administration of the agent.
30. (canceled)
31. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is a method for patient stratification; and wherein the method further comprises employing the one or more potential biomarkers for patient stratification.
32. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more potential biomarkers are employed for patient stratification to determine whether or not to treat a patient using the agent.
33. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is a method for patient stratification; wherein the administration of an agent to the plurality of subjects occurs during a clinical trial for the agent; and wherein the method further comprises employing the identified one or more potential biomarkers for patient stratification during a subsequent clinical trial of the agent or during a subsequent stage of the same clinical trial of the agent.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein the one or more potential biomarkers are used for patient stratification to determine which patients are enrolled in the subsequent clinical trial or to determine the patients that receive the agent in the subsequent clinical trial.
35. (canceled)
36. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more criteria for selecting two or more subsets of the merged data includes a phenotypic classification or includes clinical outcome data or includes data regarding whether a subject experienced an adverse event during or after administration of the agent.
37. 37.-38. (canceled)
39. The method of claim 1, wherein the agent is intended for treatment of a disease or disorder and wherein the one or more criteria for selecting two or more subsets of the merged data includes data regarding responsiveness of the subject to the treatment.
40. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected two or more subsets of the merged data include a selected data set for each individual subject.
41. The method of claim 1, wherein the two or more selected data sets comprise a selected data set including the merged data from all of the plurality of subjects.
42. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more samples for each subject comprise one or more of blood, tissue, and urine samples.
43. (canceled)
44. The method of claim 1, wherein the molecular profile data for each subject comprises two or more of proteomics, metabolomics, lipidomics, genomics, transcriptomics, microarray and sequencing data.
45. 45.-47. (canceled)
48. The method of claim 1, wherein the clinical outcome data comprises data regarding a state or status of a disease or a disorder.
49. The method of claim 1, wherein the agent is an agent for treatment of a disease or disorder and wherein the clinical outcome data comprises data indicating whether a subject was responsive or refractory in response to treatment with the agent.
50. The method of claim 1, wherein the clinical outcome data comprises data regarding an adverse event occurring during or after administration of the agent.
51. The method of claim 1, further comprising: processing the merged data by reconciling duplicated clinical records data and resolving discrepancies.
52. The method of claim 1, further comprising: filtering the merged data to remove molecular data for which corresponding clinical records data is missing.
53. The method of claim 1, wherein processing molecular profile data for each subject further comprises: merging the molecular profile data collected at different time points over the course of the treatment for the plurality of subjects; filtering the molecular profile data to remove infrequently measured variables; normalizing the molecular profile data; and imputing any variable not measured for a particular subject of the plurality of subjects.
54. The method of claim 1, wherein the agent is intended for treatment of cancer.
55. The method of claim 54, wherein the clinical outcome data includes tumor size measurements or comprises data from functional imaging of a tumor.
56. (canceled)
57. The method of claim 54, wherein analyzing one or more of the selected data sets to identify one or more potential biomarkers for a clinical outcome related to administration of the agent comprises generating a Bayesian causal relationship network for each of the one or more selected data sets; and wherein the method further comprises comparing the generated Bayesian causal relationship networks from selected data sets from subjects with a Bayesian causal relationship network generated based on data obtained from an in vitro model of cancer.
58. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a subject-specific profile, the subject-specific profile comprising: a graphical representation of demographic information for the subject; and a graphical representation of outcome information for the subject.
59. The method of claim 58, wherein the graphical representation of outcome information for the subject comprises: a graphical representation of adverse event information for the subject; and a graphical representation of information regarding responsivity to the agent.
60. The method of claim 1, wherein some or all of the subjects in the plurality of subjects are afflicted with a disorder.
61. The method of claim 60, wherein the disorder is selected from the group consisting of cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
62. 62.-63. (canceled)
64. The method claim 1, wherein, for each subject, the clinical records data includes pharmacokinetic data from samples obtained at the same time points as samples for molecular profile data were obtained.
65. The method of claim 1, further comprising, for each patient, obtaining the plurality of samples for molecular profile data at a plurality of time points and obtaining samples for pharmacokinetic data at the same plurality of time points.
66. The method of claim 54, wherein the method is a method of identifying one or more biomarkers for the clinical outcome related to administration of the agent, and wherein the identified one or more potential biomarkers are one or more biomarkers for the clinical outcome related to administration of the agent.
67. A system comprising: a database; a memory; and a processor in communication with the memory, the processor comprising:: an omics module configured to process molecular profile data for each subject in a plurality of subjects, the molecular profile data for each subject comprising one or more of proteomics, metabolomics, lipidomics, genomics, transcriptomics, microarray and sequencing data generated from analysis of a plurality of samples obtained from the subject, the plurality of samples for each subject including samples obtained before, during, and/or after administration of an agent to the subject; a clinical records module configured to process clinical records data for each of the plurality of subjects, the clinical records data for each subject including data based on one or both of samples obtained from the subject and measurements made of the subject before, during, and/or after administration of the agent, the clinical records data comprising clinical outcome data; an integration module configured to integrate the processed molecular profile data and the processed clinical records data for the plurality of subjects and storing in the database as merged data; a slicing module configured to select two or more subsets of the merged data using one or more criteria based on the clinical records data to generate two or more selected data sets; and an analysis module configured to analyze one or more of the selected data sets to identify one or more potential biomarkers for a clinical outcome related to administration of the agent.
68. 68.-129. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
