<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06Q20/40,G06Q40/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FAIR ISAAC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARKER, ADAM
BETRON, MICHAEL
CHANDRA, RADHA
LACOUNTE, BRENDAN ALEXANDER
LASHER, ELIZABETH
MCFADDEN, MICHAEL
NIKPOUR, MOHAMMAD
REES, JENNY
SINGH, SUPRITI
STICKELS, NEIL
TILLEY, SHARON HATCHER
WEI YAN
WHITESIDE, IAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71732666
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FIRST PARTY FRAUD DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented fraud detection method and system for periodically identifying network associations in a consumer population at a national credit reporting agency and computing associated network level variables related to credit use and potential first party fraud for the consumer population. In response to receiving a request for a target account from among the consumer population the computer-implemented system retrieves credit report for the target account and computes tradeline or account level variables related to credit use and potential fraudulent behavior. A fraud score is calculated based on a combined evaluation of the network level variables and the tradeline or account level variables.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented fraud detection method comprising: accessing credit-related data for a plurality of entities, wherein histories of credit-related activities for the plurality of entities is stored in at least one data storage medium accessible by one or more computing devices, the one or more computing devices comprising processing resources for analyzing the credit-related data; determining connection patterns among the plurality of entities, in response to analyzing the credit-related data to determine relationships between the one or more entities, the determined connection patterns being utilized to generate a data structure representing a relationship graph, the nodes in the relationship graph representing the plurality of entities and edges connecting the nodes in the relationship graph representing the relations between the plurality of entities; and building a model based on the relationship graph and an analysis of the credit-related data based on which a fraud score for at least one entity from among the plurality of entities may be calculated.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein in response to receiving a request for determining the fraud score for a target entity from the plurality of entities, credit report data for the target entity in combination with tradeline characteristics for the target entity is utilized to calculate the fraud score for the target entity.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein tradeline characteristics comprise at least one of number of credit or trade inquiries associated with the target entity during a first time period, number of short life trades associated with the target entity, and loan or credit balances associated with the target entity over a second time period.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the first time period is the same as the second time period.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the first time period is different from or partially overlaps with the second time period.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the relationship graph is implemented in form of a computer-implemented data structure that is periodically updated to include changes or new relationships between the plurality of entities.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the relationship graph is a data tale or a data tree.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the fraud score is calculated based on individual consumer-level characteristics based on a credit bureau tradeline data.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the fraud score is calculated based on individual consumer-level characteristics based on a credit bureau header data.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the fraud score is calculated based on network-level characteristics and entity relationships.
11. A system comprising: at least one programmable processor; and a non-transitory machine-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one programmable processor, cause the at least one programmable processor to perform operations comprising: accessing credit-related data for a plurality of entities, wherein histories of credit-related activities for the plurality of entities is stored in at least one data storage medium accessible by one or more computing devices, the one or more computing devices comprising processing resources for analyzing the credit-related data; determining connection patterns among the plurality of entities, in response to analyzing the credit-related data to determine relationships between the one or more entities, the determined connection patterns being utilized to generate a data structure representing a relationship graph, the nodes in the relationship graph representing the plurality of entities and edges connecting the nodes in the relationship graph representing the relations between the plurality of entities; and building a model based on the relationship graph and an analysis of the credit-related data based on which a fraud score for at least one entity from among the plurality of entities may be calculated.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein in response to receiving a request for determining the fraud score for a target entity from the plurality of entities, credit report data for the target entity in combination with tradeline characteristics for the target entity is utilized to calculate the fraud score for the target entity.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein tradeline characteristics comprise at least one of number of credit or trade inquiries associated with the target entity during a first time period, number of short life trades associated with the target entity, and loan or credit balances associated with the target entity over a second time period.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the first time period is the same as the second time period.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the first time period is different from or partially overlaps with the second time period.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the relationship graph is implemented in form of a computer-implemented data structure that is periodically updated to include changes or new relationships between the plurality of entities.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the fraud score is calculated based on network-level characteristics and entity relationships.
18. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory machine-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by at least one programmable processor, cause the at least one programmable processor to perform operations comprising: periodically identifying network associations in a consumer population at a national credit reporting agency; periodically compute associated network level variables related to credit use and potential first party fraud for the consumer population; and in response to receiving a request for a target account from among the consumer population: retrieve credit report for the target account; compute tradeline or account level variables related to credit use and potential fraudulent behavior; and calculate a fraud score based on a combined evaluation of the network level variables and the tradeline or account level variables.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein in response to receiving a request for determining the fraud score, credit report data for the target account in combination with tradeline characteristics for the target account is utilized to calculate the fraud score.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein tradeline characteristics comprise at least one of number of credit or trade inquiries associated with the target account during a first time period, number of short life trades associated with the target account, and loan or credit balances associated with the target account over a second time period.
</claims>
</document>
