<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/23,G06F16/28,G16H10/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
YUEN-REED, GIGI Y.C.
YANG, HYUNA
GOPALAKRISHNAN, VISHRAWAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72335002
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATING AND MANAGING CLINICAL STUDIES USING A KNOWLEDGE BASE
</title>

<abstract>
A computer system generates and manages clinical studies. A first collection of clinical documents is analyzed to extract clinical study goals and corresponding clinical study design components. A second collection of documents is analyzed to extract value sets indicating a mapping between clinical concepts and data elements of clinical information. The extracted clinical study design information and value sets are stored in a hierarchical structure within a repository that relates the clinical study goals, design components, concepts, and the data elements. A new clinical study is generated for a desired clinical study goal based on pattern recognition applied to the extracted clinical study design information and value sets in the repository using the repository. Embodiments of the present invention further include a method and program product for generating and managing clinical studies in substantially the same manner described above.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of generating and managing clinical studies comprising: analyzing, via a processor, a first collection of clinical documents to extract clinical study design information including clinical study goals and corresponding clinical study design components; analyzing, via the processor, a second collection of documents to extract value sets indicating a mapping between clinical concepts and data elements of clinical information, wherein each value set comprises information pertaining to two or more of: a source of the value set, frequency of use of the value set, user feedback for the value set, and validation of the value set; storing, via the processor, the extracted clinical study design information and value sets in a hierarchical structure within a repository, wherein the hierarchical structure relates the clinical study goals, the clinical study design components, the clinical concepts, and the data elements of the clinical information; and generating, via the processor, a new clinical study for a desired clinical study goal based on pattern recognition applied to the extracted clinical study design information and value sets in the repository, wherein the new clinical study includes clinical study design components and value sets derived from the repository.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: updating, via the processor, the repository based on user feedback pertaining to the new clinical study.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, via the processor, a second clinical study for a second desired clinical study goal based on a search for clinical studies within the repository corresponding to the second desired clinical study goal, wherein the second clinical study includes clinical study design components and value sets from the clinical studies resulting from the search.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the new clinical study further comprises: identifying, via the processor, clinical studies within the repository having clinical study goals corresponding to the desired clinical study goal; determining, via the processor, a frequency of clinical study design components of the identified clinical studies corresponding to terms of the desired clinical study goal; mapping, via the processor, the clinical study design components of the identified clinical studies to the terms of the desired clinical study goal based on the determined frequencies; and utilizing, via the processor, the mapped clinical study design components for the new clinical study.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: in response to unmapped terms in the desired clinical study goal, identifying documents containing the unmapped terms and utilizing frequently used clinical study design components within the identified documents for the new clinical study.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the new clinical study further comprises: recommending the new clinical study to a user.
7. A computer system for generating and managing clinical studies, the computer system comprising: one or more computer processors; one or more computer readable storage media; program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more computer processors, the program instructions comprising instructions to: analyze a first collection of clinical documents to extract clinical study design information including clinical study goals and corresponding clinical study design components; analyze a second collection of documents to extract value sets indicating a mapping between clinical concepts and data elements of clinical information, wherein each value set comprises information pertaining to two or more of: a source of the value set, frequency of use of the value set, user feedback for the value set, and validation of the value set; store the extracted clinical study design information and value sets in a hierarchical structure within a repository, wherein the hierarchical structure relates the clinical study goals, the clinical study design components, the clinical concepts, and the data elements of the clinical information; and generate a new clinical study for a desired clinical study goal based on pattern recognition applied to the extracted clinical study design information and value sets in the repository, wherein the new clinical study includes clinical study design components and value sets derived from the repository.
8. The computer system of claim 7, further comprising instructions to: update the repository based on user feedback pertaining to the new clinical study.
9. The computer system of claim 7, further comprising instructions to: generate a second clinical study for a second desired clinical study goal based on a search for clinical studies within the repository corresponding to the second desired clinical study goal, wherein the second clinical study includes clinical study design components and value sets from the clinical studies resulting from the search.
10. The computer system of claim 7, wherein the instructions to generate the new clinical study further comprise instructions to: identify clinical studies within the repository having clinical study goals corresponding to the desired clinical study goal; determine a frequency of clinical study design components of the identified clinical studies corresponding to terms of the desired clinical study goal; map the clinical study design components of the identified clinical studies to the terms of the desired clinical study goal based on the determined frequencies; and utilize the mapped clinical study design components for the new clinical study.
11. The computer system of claim 10, further comprising instructions to: in response to unmapped terms in the desired clinical study goal, identify documents containing the unmapped terms and utilizing frequently used clinical study design components within the identified documents for the new clinical study.
12. The computer system of claim 7, wherein the instructions to generate the new clinical study further comprise instructions to: recommend the new clinical study to a user.
13. A computer program product for generating and managing clinical studies, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to: analyze a first collection of clinical documents to extract clinical study design information including clinical study goals and corresponding clinical study design components; analyze a second collection of documents to extract value sets indicating a mapping between clinical concepts and data elements of clinical information, wherein each value set comprises information pertaining to two or more of: a source of the value set, frequency of use of the value set, user feedback for the value set, and validation of the value set; store the extracted clinical study design information and value sets in a hierarchical structure within a repository, wherein the hierarchical structure relates the clinical study goals, the clinical study design components, the clinical concepts, and the data elements of the clinical information; and generate a new clinical study for a desired clinical study goal based on pattern recognition applied to the extracted clinical study design information and value sets in the repository, wherein the new clinical study includes clinical study design components and value sets derived from the repository.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, further comprising instructions to cause the computer to: update the repository based on user feedback pertaining to the new clinical study.
15. The computer program product of claim 13, further comprising instructions to cause the computer to: generate a second clinical study for a second desired clinical study goal based on a search for clinical studies within the repository corresponding to the second desired clinical study goal, wherein the second clinical study includes clinical study design components and value sets from the clinical studies resulting from the search.
16. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the instructions to generate the new clinical study further comprise instructions to cause the computer to: identify clinical studies within the repository having clinical study goals corresponding to the desired clinical study goal; determine a frequency of clinical study design components of the identified clinical studies corresponding to terms of the desired clinical study goal; map the clinical study design components of the identified clinical studies to the terms of the desired clinical study goal based on the determined frequencies; and utilize the mapped clinical study design components for the new clinical study.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, further comprising instructions to cause the computer to: in response to unmapped terms in the desired clinical study goal, identify documents containing the unmapped terms and utilizing frequently used clinical study design components within the identified documents for the new clinical study.
18. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the instructions to generate the new clinical study further comprise instructions to cause the computer to: recommend the new clinical study to a user.
</claims>
</document>
