<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2006-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/172,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PAYPAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
SUBRAMANIAN MAHESH
ORCUTT, WILLIAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
38517287
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM TO PRE-FETCH DATA IN A NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for prefetching items of content associated with commercial websites, comprising receiving a request from a user device for data for a first interface, and in response, identifying items of content that are to be included in one or more second interfaces that are accessible by user-selectable links in the first interface. Data for the first interface and the items of content are then transmitted to the user device. After the transmission, a second request is received from the user device for a particular second interface, based on a selection of a particular user-selectable link in the first interface. In response, data corresponding to the particular second interface that does not include the items of content included in the particular second interface is transmitted to the user device to enable output of the second interface with its respective items of content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for pre-fetching items of content associated with commercial websites, comprising: receiving, by a server over a network, a first request from a web client operating on a user device for data for presenting a first interface, the first interface including one or more user-selectable links each corresponding to a respective second interface from among one or more second interfaces, wherein the one or more second interfaces are different from the first interface, and wherein each of the one or more second interfaces includes a respective one or more items of content, each item of content being associated with a respective offer; identifying, for each of the one or more second interfaces, respective data corresponding to the respective one or more items of content; transmitting, from the server over the network to the user device and in response to the first request, (i) the data for presenting the first interface, and (ii) for each of the one or more second interfaces, the respective data corresponding to the respective one or more items of content; and after transmitting (i) the data for presenting the first interface, and (ii) for each of the one or more second interfaces, the respective data corresponding to the respective one or more items of content, receiving, by the server over the network from the web client operating on the user device and based on a selection of a particular user-selectable link from among the one or more user-selectable links, a second request for data for presenting a particular second interface from among the one or more second interfaces.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each item of content comprises promotional material associated with a different offer.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more items of content do not include data for presenting the first interface.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the user device is configured to store the one or more items of content in a cache memory of the user device.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the cache memory of the user device is implemented using a volatile memory device.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the user-selectable links is associated with a different web domain.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to the second request for data for presenting the particular second interface, transmitting the data for presenting the particular second interface from the server over the network to the user device, wherein the data for presenting the particular second interface does not include the respective data corresponding to respective one or more items of content included in the particular second interface.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the user device is configured to render the particular second interface using the respective data corresponding to the respective one or more items of content included in the particular second interface and the data for presenting the particular second interface.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising: after rendering the particular second interface, receiving, by the server over the network and from the web client operating on the user device, data indicative of a transaction pertaining to a particular offer associated with one of the respective one or more items of content included in the particular second interface.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more second interfaces is associated with a different merchant from among one or more merchants, and each item of content included in the particular second interface is associated with a different offer of a particular merchant from among the one or more merchants.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein identifying, for each of the one or more second interfaces, the respective data corresponding to the respective one or more items of content comprises: selecting, by the server and for each of the one or more second interfaces, the respective data corresponding to the respective one or more items of content from among data stored in an information repository accessible by the server.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the selection is based on a predicted flow of interfaces that is associated with the first interface and that is determined based on at least one of information associated with the first interface, interactions of users with the first interface, or interactions of a user associated with the user device.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the selection is based on personalization data associated with a user associated with the user device.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the selection is based on content presented in the first interface.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: receiving the first request for the data for presenting the first interface comprises receiving the first request for the data for presenting the first interface by the server over the network from the web client operating on the user device through an application program interface (API) operating on the user device; transmitting (i) the data for presenting the first interface, and (ii) for each of the one or more second interfaces, the respective data corresponding to the respective one or more items of content comprises transmitting (i) the data for presenting the first interface, and (ii) for each of the one or more second interfaces, the respective data corresponding to the respective one or more items of content from the server over the network through the API to the user device; and receiving the second request for the data for presenting the particular second interface comprises receiving the second request for the data for presenting the particular second interface from among the one or more second interfaces by the server over the network from the web client operating on the user device through the API.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, further comprising: after receiving the second request, receiving, by the server over the network from the web client operating on the user device through the API, data indicative of a transaction pertaining to a particular offer associated with a respective particular item of content included in the particular second interface.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more items of content are of a same data type, the data type being one of a text string, digital media file type, cascading style sheet (CSS) script, or JavaScript.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the respective one or more items of content included in the particular second interface are not provided for output at the user device until after the selection of the particular user-selectable link.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more user-selectable links corresponds to a category or to a result that is identified as responsive to a text-based query.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first interface and the one or more second interfaces are programmatic interfaces associated with a third-party program operating in the web client, the programmatic interfaces being different from one or more web interfaces for presenting web pages in the web client.
21. A computer-implemented method for pre-fetching data associated with a commercial web site, comprising: obtaining data associated with a commercial web site, the data comprising one or more items of content; storing the data associated with the commercial website at a server; receiving, at the server over a network from a client device associated with a consumer, a first request for data corresponding to a first interface; in response to the first request and before receiving a request for data corresponding to a second interface, transmitting, from the server over the network to the client device, (i) the data corresponding to the first interface and (ii) at least a portion of the one or more items of content; receiving, by the server over the network from the client device, a second request for data corresponding to a second interface, wherein the second interface uses the at least a portion of the one or more items of content; and in response to the second request, transmitting, from the server over the network to the client device, the data corresponding to the second interface, wherein the data corresponding to the second interface does not include the at least a portion of the one or more items of content.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein each item of content comprises promotional material associated with a different offer.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the first interface comprises a user-selectable link to the second interface, and wherein the second request for the data corresponding to the second interface is responsive to a selection of the user-selectable link.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the client device is configured to render the second interface using the data corresponding to the second interface and the at least a portion of the one or more items of content.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein transmitting the at least a portion of the one or more items of content comprises: selecting the at least a portion of the one or more items of content from among the data associated with the commercial website; and transmitting the at least a portion of the one or more items of content based on the selection.
26. The computer-implemented method of claim 25, wherein the selection is based on a predicted flow of interfaces that is associated with the first interface and that is determined based on at least one of information associated with the first interface, interactions of users with the first interface, or interactions of the consumer associated with the client device.
27. The computer-implemented method of claim 25, wherein the selection is based on personalization data associated with the consumer associated with the client device.
28. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein: receiving the first request comprises receiving the first request for the data corresponding to the first interface at the server over the network through an application program interface (API) operating on the client device associated with the consumer; transmitting (i) the data corresponding to the first interface and (ii) the at least a portion of the one or more items of content comprises transmitting (i) the data corresponding to the first interface and (ii) the at least a portion of the one or more items of content from the server over the network to the client device through the API; receiving the second request comprises receiving the second request for the data corresponding to the second interface at the server over the network through the API from the client device; and transmitting the data corresponding to the second interface comprises transmitting the data corresponding to the second interface from the server over the network to the client device through the API.
29. A computer-implemented method for pre-fetching items of content associated with a commercial web site, comprising: storing, in an information repository accessible by a server, one or more items of content that are each associated with a respective offer; receiving, by the server over a network from a user device, one or more first requests for: (i) data for presenting a first interface, the first interface including one or more user-selectable links each corresponding to a respective second interface from among one or more second interfaces, wherein the one or more second interfaces are different from the first interface, and wherein each of the one or more second interfaces includes one or more of the items of content, and (ii) data corresponding to the one or more items of content included in the one or more second interfaces; in response to the one or more first requests, transmitting, from the server over the network to the user device: (i) the data for presenting the first interface, and (ii) the data corresponding to the one or more items of content included in the one or more second interfaces; after transmitting (i) the data for presenting the first interface and (ii) the data corresponding to the one or more items of content included in the one or more second interfaces, receiving, by the server over the network from the user device and based on the selection of a particular user-selectable link from among the one or more user-selectable links in the first interface, a second request for data for presenting a particular second interface from among the one or more second interfaces; and in response to the second request, transmitting, from the server over the network to the user device, the data for presenting the particular second interface, wherein the data for presenting the particular second interface does not include data corresponding to one or more particular items of content included in the particular second interface, and wherein the data for presenting the particular second interface enables the user device to render the particular second interface with the one or more particular items of content.
30. A computer-implemented method for pre-fetching data associated with a commercial web site, comprising: storing, by a server, data associated with a commercial website, the data comprising one or more items of content; receiving, by the server over a network from a client device associated with a consumer, one or more first requests for: (i) data corresponding to a first interface, and (ii) at least a portion of the one or more items of content; in response to the one or more first requests and before receiving a request for data corresponding to a second interface, transmitting, from the server over the network to the client device: (i) the data corresponding to the first interface, and (ii) the at least a portion of the one or more items of content, wherein the client device is configured to store that at least a portion of the one or more items of content in a cache; receiving, by the server over the network from the client device, a second request for data corresponding to a second interface, wherein the second interface uses the at least a portion of the one or more items of content; and in response to the second request, transmitting, from the server over the network to the client device, the data corresponding to the second interface, wherein the data corresponding to the second interface does not include the at least a portion of the one or more items of content.
</claims>
</document>
