<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A23L33/00,G06F3/0482,G16H10/20,G16H20/60,H04W4/021
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NUTRISTYLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
MURDOCH, SCOTT
ALBRO, TODD
BRILLHART, LEE
MADSEN, SHANNON
SKINNER, CALEB
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69883329
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING IMPLEMENTATIONS FOR A MENU GENERATION PLATFORM
</title>

<abstract>
A method of operating a machine learning model on a menu generation platform involves storing user modification for a menu generation platform comprising a menu generation algorithm, a food preference algorithm, a geofenced equivalence recommendations algorithm, and a behavior modification algorithm in a historical user interaction database. The method generates modification and optimization controls for the menu generation platform through operation of the machine learning algorithm configured by entries in the historical user interaction database and entries in a platform user interaction database. The method generates relevant suggestions and modifications for the menu generation algorithm, the food preferences algorithm, geofence equivalence algorithm, and behavior modification algorithm, displayable through a user interface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of operating a machine learning model on a menu generation platform, comprising: storing user modification for a menu generation platform comprising a menu generation algorithm, a food preference algorithm, a geofenced equivalence recommendations algorithm, and a behavior modification algorithm in a historical user interaction database; generating modification and optimization controls for the menu generation platform through operation of a machine learning algorithm configured by entries in the historical user interaction database and entries in a platform user interaction database; and generating relevant suggestions and modifications for the menu generation algorithm, the food preferences algorithm, geofence equivalence algorithm, and behavior modification algorithm, displayable through a user interface.
2. The method of operating a machine learning model on a menu generation platform as in claim 1, further comprising storing user data including current health, daily kcal targets, location information, and dietary restrictions.
3. The method of operating a machine learning model on a menu generation platform as in claim 2, further comprising receiving medical conditions and medication requirements of a user and wherein generating relevant suggestions and modifications are based at least in part on the medical conditions and medication requirements of the user.
4. The method of operating a machine learning model on a menu generation platform as in claim 1, further comprising generating a shopping list based at least in part on a food menu generated by the menu generation algorithm.
5. A method, comprising: retrieving at least one user profile, the at least one user profile comprising user preferences; inputting, into a menu generation algorithm, the user preferences; retrieving, based at least in part on the user preferences, food items from at least one food database; generating, based at least in part on the food items, a meal plan comprising one or more meals; determining a portion size associated with the one or more meals; and generating a food menu.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the user profile comprises one or more of health information, health goals, food preferences, demographic information, location information, and preferred grocer information.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the preferred grocer information comprises an identified grocer and the method further comprises generating a shopping list associated with the food menu and the identified grocer.
8. The method of claim 5, further comprising receiving input from a user associated with the user profile, the input associated with modifying the food items.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the input from the user comprises one or more of food likes, food dislikes, nutrient targets, dietary restrictions, financial budget, or kcal targets.
10. The method of claim 5, further comprising determining, based at least in part on the food menu, nutrition information associated with the one or more meals.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising determining, based at least in part on the nutrition information associated with the one or more meals, nutrition deficiencies.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising, based at least in part on the nutrition deficiencies, additional meals to address the nutrition deficiencies.
13. The method of claim 5, wherein retrieving the at least one or more user profile comprises retrieving two or more user profiles and generating the food menu comprises generating a menu for two or more users.
14. The method of claim 5, further comprising determining an activity level of a user and wherein generating a food menu is based, at least in part, on the activity level of the user.
15. The method of claim 5, further comprising: generating a food log that contains data associated with the food menu; and receiving input from a user indicating that the user has been consuming food according to the food menu.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein receiving input from a user further indicates consumed foods that are not associated with the food menu.
17. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining a grocery store in proximity to a user; receiving availability information associated with food items available at the grocery store; receiving pricing information associated with the food items available at the grocery store; and wherein generating the food menu is based at least in part on the availability information and the pricing information.
18. The method of claim 5, further comprising receiving a list of menu items from a restaurant and wherein generating the food menu comprises recommending one or more meals from the restaurant.
19. A method of generating a menu, comprising: receiving a user profile associated with a user comprising one or more of a location, a budget, a food dislike, a food preference, a health target, a health condition, a nutritional target, a kcal target, and an activity level associated with the user; generating, based on the user profile, a food menu; receiving, through a user interface of a computing device associated with the user, a modification to the food menu; determining, based on the modification to the food menu, a change to nutritional information or caloric information; and generating, based on the change to nutritional information or caloric information, a second food menu comprising the modification to the food menu, the second food menu generated to meet one or more of a nutritional target or a kcal target.
20. The method of generating a menu as in claim 19, further comprising receiving historical food menu data from a second user and generating the food menu is based, at least in part, on the historical food menu data from the second user.
</claims>
</document>
