<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F16/2458,G06F16/28,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHAO, DING
ZHU, JIACHENG
WANG, WENSHUO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71070955
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR UNIFYING HETEROGENOUS DATASETS USING PRIMITIVES
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, example systems and methods related to a manner of unifying heterogeneous datasets are provided. Multiple heterogeneous datasets containing traffic or driving data are collected. The records of the datasets are combined, and the records in the combined dataset are ordered into a plurality of time series based on timestamps associated with each record. A Bayesian learning method, such as hidden Markov models, is used to identify traffic primitives in the datasets. Each traffic primitive may include several consecutive records in the combined dataset and may correspond to particular driving actions such as turning left or right, stopping, accelerating, etc. The traffic primitives are used to create a traffic primitive index that can be queried by users or researchers for specific records. These records can be used to train or test one or more learning-based algorithms. In addition, the combined dataset can be further divided into tables corresponding to particular sensors, allowing the users or researchers to query for specific traffic primitive and sensor combinations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for unifying heterogeneous datasets using traffic primitives, the system comprising: one or more processors; a memory communicably coupled to the one or more processors and storing: a preprocessing module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: receive a plurality of datasets, wherein each dataset is associated with a plurality of records, and each record is associated with a time and a sensor of a plurality of sensors; and combine the records of the received plurality of datasets into a combined dataset based on the time associated with each record; an integration module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: for each record of the combined dataset, add the record to a table of a plurality of tables based on the sensor associated with the record, wherein each table of the plurality of tables corresponds to a different sensor of the plurality of sensors; a primitive module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: for each table of the plurality of tables, segment the records of the table into a plurality of traffic primitives; and a query module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: receive a query, the query identifying at least one traffic primitive of the plurality of traffic primitives; and in response to the query, provide records of each table corresponding to the at least one traffic primitive identified by the query.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the primitive module segments the records of the table into the plurality of traffic primitives using non-parametric Bayesian learning.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the primitive module segments the records of the table into the plurality of traffic primitives using hidden Markov models.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the query identifies at least one sensor of the plurality of sensors, and the query module further includes instructions to: in response to the query, provide records of each table corresponding to the traffic primitive identified by the query and the at least one sensor identified by the query.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein each record of the plurality of datasets was collected by one or more autonomous vehicles.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the primitive module further includes instructions to: cluster the traffic primitives of the plurality of traffic primitives based on statistical similarities among the traffic primitives of the plurality of traffic primitives.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the primitive module further includes instructions to associate some of the traffic primitives of the plurality of traffic primitives with one or more scenarios of a plurality of scenarios.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the scenarios of the plurality of scenarios comprise one or more of changing lanes, entering an intersection, exiting an intersection, exiting a roadway, entering a roadway, merging into traffic, turning across traffic, and parking.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the query identifies a scenario of the plurality of scenarios, and wherein the query module further includes instructions to: in response to the query, provide records of each table corresponding to the traffic primitives associated with the identified scenario.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensors of the plurality of sensors comprise one or more of image sensors, LiDAR sensors, and RADAR sensors.
11. A method for unifying heterogeneous datasets using traffic primitives, the method comprising: receiving a plurality of datasets, wherein each dataset is associated with a plurality of records, and each record is associated with a time and a sensor of a plurality of sensors; combining the records of the received plurality of datasets into a combined data set based on the time associated with each record; for each record of the combined dataset, adding the record to a table of a plurality of tables based on the sensor associated with the record, wherein each table of the plurality of tables corresponds to a different sensor of the plurality of sensors; for each table of the plurality of tables, segmenting the records of the table into a plurality of traffic primitives; receiving a query, the query identifying at least one traffic primitive of the plurality of traffic primitives; in response to the query, providing records of each table corresponding to the traffic primitive identified by the query; and testing or training one or more learning-based algorithms using the provided records.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising segmenting the records of the table into the plurality of traffic primitives using non-parametric Bayesian learning.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising segmenting the records of the table into the plurality of traffic primitives using hidden Markov models.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the query identifies at least one sensor, and further comprising: in response to the query, providing records of each table corresponding to the traffic primitive identified by the query and the at least one sensor identified by the query.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein each record of the plurality of datasets was collected by one or more autonomous vehicles.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising: clustering the traffic primitives of the plurality of traffic primitives based on statistical similarities among the traffic primitives of the plurality of traffic primitives.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising associating some of the traffic primitives of the plurality of traffic primitives with one or more scenarios of a plurality of scenarios.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the scenarios of the plurality of scenarios comprise one or more of changing lanes, entering an intersection, exiting an intersection, exiting a roadway, entering a roadway, merging into traffic, turning across traffic, and parking.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable medium for unifying heterogeneous datasets using traffic primitives and including instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: receive a plurality of datasets, wherein each dataset is associated with a plurality of records, and each record is associated with a time and a sensor of a plurality of sensors; combine the records of the received plurality of datasets into a combined data set based on the time associated with each record; for each record of the combined dataset, add the record to a table of a plurality of tables based on the sensor associated with the record, wherein each table of the plurality of tables corresponds to a different sensor of the plurality of sensors; for each table of the plurality of tables, segment the records of the table into a plurality of traffic primitives; receive a query, the query identifying at least one traffic primitive of the plurality of traffic primitives; in response to the query, provide records of each table corresponding to the traffic primitive identified by the query; and test or train one or more learning-based algorithms using the provided records.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, further including instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to segment the records of the table into the plurality of traffic primitives using non-parametric Bayesian learning.
</claims>
</document>
