<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/20,G01C21/34,G05D1/00,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UATC
</assignee>

<inventors>
PHILLIPS, MICHAEL LEE
LIEMHETCHARAT, SOMCHAYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68764853
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Gridlock Solver for Motion Planning System of an Autonomous Vehicle
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides autonomous vehicle systems and methods that include or otherwise leverage a motion planning system that solves gridlock as part of determining a motion plan for an autonomous vehicle (AV). In particular, a scenario generator within a motion planning system can determine one or more keep clear areas associated with the lane sequence, each keep clear area indicative of a region along the nominal path in which gridlock prevention is desired. A gridlock constraint can be generated for each of the one or more keep clear areas, each constraint being defined as a constraint area in a multi-dimensional space. A low-cost trajectory path can be determined through a portion of the multi-dimensional space that minimizes exposure to the constraint areas and that is consistent with all constraints generated for the one or more objects of interest and the one or more keep clear areas.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A computer-implemented method, comprising: identifying, by a computing system that comprises one or more computing devices, one or more objects within an environment of an autonomous vehicle; generating, by the computing system, a constraint for each of the one or more objects, wherein each constraint is defined as a constraint area in a multi-dimensional space; determining, by the computing system, a plurality of candidate trajectory paths through the multi-dimensional space based at least in part on the constraints for the one or more objects; generating, by the computing system, a score for each candidate trajectory path in the plurality of candidate trajectory paths, wherein the score for each candidate trajectory path comprises one or more costs associated with the respective candidate trajectory path; determining, by the computing system, a low-cost trajectory path based at least in part on the scores for each candidate trajectory path in the plurality of candidate trajectory paths; determining, by the computing system, a motion plan based at least in part on the low-cost trajectory path; and controlling, by the computing system, motion of the autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the motion plan.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein determining the motion plan based at least in part on the low-cost trajectory path comprises: determining, by the computing system, the motion plan that locally optimizes a total cost associated with the motion plan as provided by the one or more costs.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 22, wherein determining, by the computing system, the motion plan that locally optimizes the total cost associated with the motion plan further comprises determining the motion plan based at least in part on a speed of the autonomous vehicle.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein determining the low-cost trajectory path comprises determining a low-cost trajectory path that minimizes a likelihood that the low-cost trajectory path comprises a stop in a keep clear region of the multi-dimensional space.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the one or more costs comprise a dynamics costs associated with the respective candidate trajectory path.
26. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the one or more costs comprise a cost associated with a proximity of the respective candidate trajectory path to at least one of the one or more objects.
27. The computer-implemented method of claim 26, wherein the cost associated with the proximity of the candidate trajectory path to at least one object of the one or more objects comprises a cost associated with a buffer zone associated with the at least one object.
28. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: translating, by the computing system, the low-cost trajectory path into a set of navigation decisions.
29. The computer-implemented method of claim 28, wherein translating the low-cost trajectory path into the set of navigation decisions comprises translating the low-cost trajectory based at least in part on whether the low-cost trajectory path passes each constraint area within the multi-dimensional space.
30. A computing system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory computer-readable media that collectively store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing system to perform operations, the operations comprising: identifying one or more objects within an environment of an autonomous vehicle; generating a constraint for an object of the one or more objects, wherein the constraint is defined as a constraint area in a multi-dimensional space; determining a plurality of candidate trajectory paths through the multi-dimensional space, wherein at least one of the candidate trajectory paths is based at least in part on the constraint for the object; generating a score for each candidate trajectory path in the plurality of candidate trajectory paths, wherein the score for each candidate trajectory path comprises one or more costs associated with the respective candidate trajectory path; determining a low-cost trajectory path based at least in part on the scores for each candidate trajectory path in the plurality of candidate trajectory paths; determining a motion plan based at least in part on the low-cost trajectory path; and controlling motion of the autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the motion plan.
31. The computing system of claim 30, wherein the one or more costs comprise a dynamics costs associated with the respective candidate trajectory path.
32. The computing system of claim 30, wherein the one or more costs comprise a cost associated with a proximity of the respective candidate trajectory path to the object.
33. The computing system of claim 30, wherein determining the low-cost trajectory path comprises determining a low-cost trajectory path that never comprises a stop in a keep clear region of the multi-dimensional space.
34. The computing system of claim 30, wherein determining the low-cost trajectory path comprises determining a low-cost trajectory path that minimizes a likelihood that the low-cost trajectory path comprises a stop in a keep clear region of the multi-dimensional space.
35. The computing system of claim 30, wherein determining the motion plan based at least in part on the low-cost trajectory path comprises generating one or more yield fences.
36. The computing system of claim 30, wherein generating the score for each candidate trajectory path in the plurality of candidate trajectory paths comprises penalizing one or more of the candidate trajectory paths.
37. An autonomous vehicle, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory computer-readable media that collectively store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: identifying one or more objects within an environment of an autonomous vehicle; generating a constraint for an object of the one or more objects, wherein the constraint is defined as a constraint area in a multi-dimensional space; determining a plurality of candidate trajectory paths through the multi-dimensional space, wherein at least a one of the candidate trajectory paths are based at least in part on the constraint for the object; generating a score for each candidate trajectory path in the plurality of candidate trajectory paths, wherein the score for each candidate trajectory path comprises one or more costs associated with the respective candidate trajectory path; determining a low-cost trajectory path based at least in part on the scores for each candidate trajectory path in the plurality of candidate trajectory paths; and controlling motion of the autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the low-cost trajectory path.
38. The autonomous vehicle of claim 37, wherein the score for at least one candidate trajectory path comprises a penalty associated with the respective candidate trajectory path.
39. The autonomous vehicle of claim 37, wherein the operations further comprise: determining, by the computing system, a motion plan that locally optimizes a total cost associated with the motion plan as provided by the one or more costs associated with the low-cost trajectory path.
40. The autonomous vehicle of claim 39, wherein controlling the motion of the autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the low-cost trajectory path comprises: controlling the motion of the autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the motion plan.
</claims>
</document>
