<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,G06F9/451,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACRONIS INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
BELOUSSOV, SERGUEI
MELNIKOV, OLEG
PROTASOV, STANISLAV
TORMASOV ALEXANDER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69884880
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PERSONAL PRIVACY CONTROLS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are systems and methods for protecting user data. In one aspect, an exemplary method comprises, by a hardware processor, detecting user files created by a first user and stored on a user device, the user files containing personal information associated with the first user, generating user transactional data associated with one or more detected network-based interactions with a service provider, generating user behavior data based on one or more user interactions with a graphical user interface of the user device, applying a machine learning model to user data to generate a classification of the first user, the user data comprising the user files, the user transactional data, and the user behavior data, and when the user is identifiable based on the generated classification, modifying at least one of (i) user files stored on the user device and (ii) user behavior during an operation of the user device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for protecting user data, comprising: detecting, by a hardware processor, one or more user files created by a first user and stored on a user device, the one or more user files containing personal information associated with the first user; generating, by the hardware processor, user transactional data associated with one or more detected network-based interactions, by the first user, with a service provider; generating, by the hardware processor, user behavior data based on one or more user interactions, by the first user, with a graphical user interface of the user device; applying, by the hardware processor, a machine learning model to user data to generate a classification of the first user, wherein the user data comprises the user files, the user transactional data, and the user behavior data; and when the user is identifiable based on the generated classification, modifying, by the hardware processor, at least one of (i) user files stored on the user device and (ii) user behavior of the first user during an operation of the user device.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: modifying at least one of the detected one or more user files based on a determination that the first user is transmitting the at least one of the detected one or more user files to an external resource.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from a public monitor, an indication that personal information associated with the first user is publicly available on a third-party service, wherein the user data to which the machine learning model is applied is further comprised of the received indication.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model is trained based on the collected user data to simulate an advertising behavioral targeting the first user.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, based on the machine learning model, a likelihood that the user behavior data is uniquely identifiable of the user by a third party; and modifying the behavior of the first user to anonymize the first user's operation of the user device based on the determined likelihood.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the modifying of the behavior further comprises: inserting random user input events associated with an input device of the user device, wherein the user input events include at least one of: mouse cursor movements and keyboard shortcuts.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the modifying of the behavior further comprises: modifying a graphical user interface settings associated with a windowed graphical user interface of the user device.
8. A system for protecting user data, comprising: at least one processor configured to: detecting one or more user files created by a first user and stored on a user device, the one or more user files containing personal information associated with the first user; generating user transactional data associated with one or more detected network-based interactions, by the first user, with a service provider; generating user behavior data based on one or more user interactions, by the first user, with a graphical user interface of the user device; applying a machine learning model to user data to generate a classification of the first user, wherein the user data comprises the user files, the user transactional data, and the user behavior data; and when the user is identifiable based on the generated classification, modifying at least one of (i) user files stored on the user device and (ii) user behavior of the first user during an operation of the user device.
9. The system of claim 8, the processor further configured to: modify at least one of the detected one or more user files based on a determination that the first user is transmitting the at least one of the detected one or more user files to an external resource.
10. The system of claim 8, the processor further configured to: receive, from a public monitor, an indication that personal information associated with the first user is publicly available on a third-party service, wherein the user data to which the machine learning model is applied is further comprised of the received indication.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the machine learning model is trained based on the collected user data to simulate an advertising behavioral targeting the first user.
12. The system of claim 8, the processor further configured to: determine, based on the machine learning model, a likelihood that the user behavior data is uniquely identifiable of the user by a third party; and modify the behavior of the first user to anonymize the first user's operation of the user device based on the determined likelihood.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor configured to modify the behavior further comprises a configuration to: insert random user input events associated with an input device of the user device, wherein the user input events include at least one of: mouse cursor movements and keyboard shortcuts.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor configured to modify the behavior further comprises a configuration to: modify a graphical user interface settings associated with a windowed graphical user interface of the user device.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing thereon computer executable instructions for protecting user data, including instructions for: detecting, by a hardware processor, one or more user files created by a first user and stored on a user device, the one or more user files containing personal information associated with the first user; generating, by the hardware processor, user transactional data associated with one or more detected network-based interactions, by the first user, with a service provider; generating, by the hardware processor, user behavior data based on one or more user interactions, by the first user, with a graphical user interface of the user device; applying, by the hardware processor, a machine learning model to user data to generate a classification of the first user, wherein the user data comprises the user files, the user transactional data, and the user behavior data; and when the user is identifiable based on the generated classification, modifying, by the hardware processor, at least one of (i) user files stored on the user device and (ii) user behavior of the first user during an operation of the user device.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, the instruction further comprising instructions for: modifying at least one of the detected one or more user files based on a determination that the first user is transmitting the at least one of the detected one or more user files to an external resource.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, the instruction further comprising instructions for: receiving, from a public monitor, an indication that personal information associated with the first user is publicly available on a third-party service, wherein the user data to which the machine learning model is applied is further comprised of the received indication.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the machine learning model is trained based on the collected user data to simulate an advertising behavioral targeting the first user.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, the instruction further comprising instructions for: determining, based on the machine learning model, a likelihood that the user behavior data is uniquely identifiable of the user by a third party; and modifying the behavior of the first user to anonymize the first user's operation of the user device based on the determined likelihood.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 19, wherein the instructions for modifying of the behavior further comprises instructions for at least one of: inserting random user input events associated with an input device of the user device, wherein the user input events include at least one of: mouse cursor movements and keyboard shortcuts; and modifying a graphical user interface settings associated with a windowed graphical user interface of the user device.
</claims>
</document>
