<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B8/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THIELE, KARL
BUTTERFLY NETWORK
GONYEAU, BRENDA
NEBEN, ABRAHAM
</assignee>

<inventors>
THIELE, KARL
GONYEAU, BRENDA
NEBEN, ABRAHAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69406936
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND APPARATUSES FOR ULTRASOUND IMAGING OF LUNGS
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the technology described herein relate to ultrasound imaging of lungs. An ultrasound device may be configured with a set of parameter values associated with a shallow lung imaging mode. A selection of a change in imaging depth may be received. If the selected imaging depth is greater than or equal to a threshold imaging depth, the ultrasound device may be configured with a set of parameter values associated with a deep lung imaging mode. The set of parameter values associated with the shallow lung imaging mode may be optimized for imaging lung sliding and the set of parameter values associated with the deep lung imaging mode may be optimized for imaging A lines and B lines.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a processing device in operative communication with an ultrasound device, the processing device configured to: configure the ultrasound device with a set of parameter values associated with a first imaging mode; receive a selection of an imaging depth; determine that the selected imaging depth is greater than a threshold imaging depth or determine that the selected imaging depth is greater than or equal to the threshold imaging depth; and configure the ultrasound device with a set of parameter values associated with a second imaging mode.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first imaging mode comprises a shallow lung imaging mode and the second imaging mode comprises a deep lung imaging mode.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the first imaging mode is associated with imaging depths that are smaller than or equal to the threshold imaging depth and the second imaging mode is associated with imaging depths that are larger than the threshold imaging depth; or the first imaging mode is associated with imaging depths that are smaller than the threshold imaging depth and the second imaging mode is associated with imaging depths that are larger than or equal to the threshold imaging depth.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the threshold imaging depth is between approximately 4 cm and 8 cm.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of parameter values associated with the first imaging mode comprises a peak frequency of transmitted ultrasound between approximately 5 MHz and 10 MHz.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of parameter values associated with the second imaging mode comprises a peak frequency of transmitted ultrasound between approximately 2 MHz and 5 MHz.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of parameter values associated with the first imaging mode comprises a receive frequency between approximately 5 MHz and 10 MHz.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of parameter values associated with the second imaging mode comprises a receive frequency between approximately 2 MHz and 5 MHz.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of parameter values associated with the first imaging mode comprises a virtual apex greater than or equal to approximately 10 cm above a skin line of a subject being imaged.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of parameter values associated with the second imaging mode comprises a virtual apex between approximately 0 cm and 5 cm above a skin line of a subject being imaged.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of parameter values associated with the first imaging mode comprises an image field of view angle between approximately 0 and 20 degrees around a virtual apex.
12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of parameter values associated with the second imaging mode comprises an image field of view angle between approximately 40 degrees and 90 degrees around a virtual apex.
13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of parameter values associated with the first imaging mode comprises an instantaneous transmit aperture between approximately 4 mm and 8 mm.
14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of parameter values associated with the second imaging mode comprises an instantaneous transmit aperture between approximately 12 mm and 20 mm.
15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of parameter values associated with the first imaging mode comprises a linear ultrasound image format.
16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of parameter values associated with the second imaging mode comprises a sector ultrasound image format.
17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of parameter values associated with the first imaging mode comprises time gain compensation gain values of approximately 0 dB, −8 dB, and −2 dB at respective control points of approximately 0 cm, 3 cm, and 6 cm.
18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of parameter values associated with the second imaging mode comprises time gain compensation gain values of approximately 0 dB, 0 dB, and 5 dB at respective control points of approximately 0 cm, 3 cm, and 6 cm.
19. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of parameter values associated with the first imaging mode is optimized for imaging lung sliding.
20. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of parameter values associated with the second imaging mode is optimized for imaging A lines and B lines.
21. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further configured to receive a user selection of a lung imaging preset option.
22. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further configured to automatically determine that lung imaging is being performed by the ultrasound device.
23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the processing device is configured, when automatically determining that lung imaging is being performed by the ultrasound device, to: receive ultrasound data from the ultrasound device; and determine that the ultrasound data was collected from lungs.
24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the processing device is configured, when determining that the ultrasound data was collected from the lungs, to input the ultrasound data to a statistical model trained to accept inputted ultrasound data and determine an anatomical region where the inputted ultrasound data was collected.
25. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the processing device is configured, when automatically determining that lung imaging is being performed by the ultrasound device, to receive an optical image of the ultrasound device and the subject; and determine that the ultrasound device is located at the subject's lungs.
26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the processing device is configured, when determining that the ultrasound device is located at the subject's lungs, to input the ultrasound data to a statistical model trained to accept an inputted optical image depicting an ultrasound device and a subject and determine an anatomical region on the depicted subject where the depicted ultrasound device is located.
27. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the optical image is collected by a camera on the processing device.
28. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further configured to: receive a second selection of an imaging depth; determine that: the second selected imaging depth is less than or equal to the threshold imaging depth; or the second selected imaging depth is less than the threshold imaging depth; and configure the ultrasound device with the set of parameter values associated with the first imaging mode.
</claims>
</document>
