<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/18,G06N20/00,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
HE QI
YANG, JAEWON
OBUKHOV, MIKHAIL
BAI, JOEY
Eskafi, Farzard
Zhu, Lin
Wu, Shiqi
Yan, Xiao
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74190443
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SKILL VALIDATION
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatuses, computer readable medium, and methods are disclosed for verifying skills of members of an online connection network. The apparatus, computer readable medium, and methods may include a method including responding to a first member of the online connection network indicating a skill possessed by the first member by selecting a skill verification user interface (UI) to present to a second member of the online connection network where the first member and the second member are connected via the online connection network. The method may further include presenting the skill verification UI to the second member, where the skill verification UI presents an indication of the first member, an indication of the skill, and a query regarding a competence level of the skill possessed by the first member. The method may further include receiving a response to the query and determining a skill validation value of the skill for the first member based on the response and a machine learning model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for verifying skills in an online connection network, the system comprising: a computer readable medium having instructions stored there on, which, when executed by a processor, cause the system to: in response to a first member of the online connection network indicating a skill possessed by the first member, select a skill verification user interface (UI) to present to a second member of the online connection network, wherein the first member and the second member are connected via the online connection network; present the skill verification UI to the second member, wherein the skill verification UI presents an indication of the first member, an indication of the skill, and a query regarding a competence level of the skill possessed by the first member; receive a response to the query; and determine a skill validation value of the skill for the first member based on the response and a machine learning model.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the skill verification UI is one of the following group: a go-to-skill connection UI, a top skill UI, and an endorsement follow-up UI.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein present the skill verification UI to the second member further comprises: select three other members of the online connection network that are connected to the second member; and. in response to the second member viewing a profile of the first member, present the go-to-skill connection UI to the second member, wherein the go-to-skill connection UI presents the indication of the first member, indications of the three other members, the indication of the skill, and the query regarding the competence of the skill possessed by the first member, wherein the query indicates the second member is to choose from the first member and the three other members as a go-to-connection for the skill.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the three other members of the online connection network are directly connected to the second member.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein select three other members of the online connection network that are connected to the second member further comprises: select the three other members of the online connection network that are connected to the second member based on a second machine learning model, wherein the second machine learning model is trained based on features comprising a skill reputation of the three other members, a measure of a strength of the relationship between the second member and the three other members, and a skill rank of the skill.
6. The system of claim 2, wherein present the skill verification UI to the second member further comprises: select two or more additional skills; and present the top skill UI to the second member, the top skill UI comprising the indication of the first member, the indication of the skill, indications of the two or more additional skills, wherein the query regarding the competence of the skill possessed by the first member is for the second member to choose a top skill of the first member.
7. The system of claim 2, wherein present the skill verification UI to the second member further comprises: in response to the second member endorsing the first member for the skill, present the endorsement follow-up UI to the second member, the endorsement follow-up UI comprising the indication of the first member, the indication of the skill, indications of three or more ratings for the skill, and wherein the query regarding the competence of the skill possessed by the first member is for the second member to select one of the three or more ratings for the skill possessed by the first member.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein presenting the skill verification UI to the second member further comprises: present a UI element that requests that the second member indicate a relationship with the first member.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the second member is connected to the first member by a first-degree connection within the online connection network.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein determine the skill validation value of the skill for the first member based on the response and the machine learning model further comprises: training the machine learning model based on features, the features comprising responses from members to skill verification UIs, skill ranks of skills, skill reputations of members, and measures of strengths of the relationship between members.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the machine learning model is one of the following group: a gradient boosting model, a non-parametric tree model, and a logistic regression model.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions further cause the system to: determine members that have applied for a job of a job posting, the job posting comprising one or more skills; determine which members were hired for the job; and verify the one or more skills for the members that were hired to the job.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the instructions further cause the system to: train the machine learning model using the one or more skills for the members that were hired and using features derived from attributes of the members that were hired.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the system to: update a profile of the first member with the skill validation value of the skill, wherein the profile comprising the skill validation value of the skill and an indication that the first member has indicated the first member possesses the skill.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the instructions further cause the system to: determine a matching between a job posting and the first member based on matching skills listed in the job posting with the skill validation value of the skill.
16. A computer-implemented method for verifying skills in an online connection network, the method comprising: in response to a first member of the online connection network indicating a skill possessed by the first member, selecting a skill verification user interface (UI) to present to a second member of the online connection network, wherein the first member and the second member are connected via the online connection network; presenting the skill verification UI to the second member, wherein the skill verification UI presents an indication of the first member, an indication of the skill, and a query regarding a competence level of the skill possessed by the first member; receiving a response to the query; and determining a skill validation value of the skill for the first member based on the response and a machine learning model.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the skill verification UI is one of the following group: a go-to-skill connection UI, a top skill U I, and an endorsement follow-up UI.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein presenting the skill verification UI to the another member further comprises: selecting three other members of the online connection network that are connected to the second member; and in response to the second member viewing a profile of the first member, presenting the go-to-skill connection UI to the second member, wherein the go-to-skill connection UI presents the indication of the first member, indications of the three other members, the indication of the skill, and the query regarding the competence of the skill possessed by the first member, wherein the query indicates the second member is to choose from the first member and the three other members as a go-to-connection for the skill.
19. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising instructions, which when implemented by one or more machines, cause the one or more machines to perform operations comprising: in response to a first member of the online connection network indicating a skill possessed by the first member, select a skill verification user interface (UI) to present to a second member of the online connection network, wherein the first member and the second member are connected via the online connection network; present the skill verification UI to the second member, wherein the skill verification UI presents an indication of the first member, an indication of the skill, and a query regarding a competence level of the skill possessed by the first member; receive a response to the query; and determine a skill validation value of the skill for the first member based on he response and a machine learning model.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the skill verification UI is one of the following group: a go-to-skill connection UI, a top skill UI, and an endorsement follow-up UI.
</claims>
</document>
