<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/32,G06K9/46,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING DAJIA INTERNET INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI YAN
LIU CHANG
ZHANG, Shuifa
WANG, Sibo
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67920959
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND DEVICE FOR RECOGNIZING IMAGE AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A method and device for recognizing an image, electronic equipment and a storage medium are provided. The method includes: acquiring an image to be recognized; determining a potential recognition region based on a target algorithm model; determining an up-sampled potential recognition region by up-sampling the potential recognition region; and determining a classification recognition result based on the up-sampled potential recognition region.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for recognizing an image, comprising: acquiring an image to be recognized; determining a potential recognition region of the image based on a target algorithm model, wherein the potential recognition region includes a region with a designated content and a size no greater than a preset threshold; determining an up-sampled potential recognition region by up-sampling the potential recognition region; and determining a classification recognition result based on the up-sampled potential recognition region.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the target algorithm model comprises a feature extraction network, a region proposal network and a region pooling network.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein said determining the potential recognition region comprises: determining a first feature map by extracting features from the image based on the feature extraction network; determining a first predict bounding box based on the first feature map and the region proposal network, wherein the first predict bounding box includes a target feature region; determining a target recognition result based on the region pooling network and the target feature region; determining the potential recognition region based on the target recognition result.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the target recognition result comprises: the target feature region includes no potential recognition region; the target feature region includes the potential recognition region.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the target recognition result comprises a position of the potential recognition region and a classification recognition result of regions other than the potential recognition region in the target feature region in response to that the target feature region includes the potential recognition region.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein said determining the potential recognition region based on the target recognition result comprises: extracting the potential recognition region from the image in response to that the target feature region includes the potential recognition region.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein said determining the classification recognition result comprises: determining a second feature map by extracting features from the up-sampled potential recognition region based on the feature extraction network; determining a second predict bounding box based on the second feature map and the region proposal network, wherein the second predict bounding box includes a specified feature region; and determining the classification recognition result based on the region pooling network and the specified feature region.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the target algorithm model is pre-trained by: acquiring sample images; determining labeled sample images by labeling designated contents and potential recognition regions in the sample images; and obtaining the target algorithm model by training an initial algorithm model based on the labeled sample images.
9. A device for recognizing an image, comprising: a processor; and a memory configured to store instructions executable by the processor; wherein the processor is configured to execute the instructions to: acquire an image to be recognized; determine a potential recognition region of the image based on a target algorithm model, wherein the potential recognition region includes a region with a designated content and a size no greater than a preset threshold; determine an up-sampled potential recognition region by up-sampling the potential recognition region; and determine a classification recognition result based on the up-sampled potential recognition region.
10. The device of claim 9, wherein the target algorithm model comprises a feature extraction network, a region proposal network and a region pooling network.
11. The device of claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to: determine a first feature map by extracting features from the image based on the feature extraction network; determine a first predict bounding box based on the first feature map and the region proposal network, wherein the first predict bounding box includes a target feature region; determine a target recognition result based on the region pooling network and the target feature region; determine the potential recognition region based on the target recognition result.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the target recognition result comprises: the target feature region includes no potential recognition region; the target feature region includes the potential recognition region.
13. The device of claim 12, the target recognition result comprises a position of the potential recognition region and a classification recognition result of regions other than the potential recognition region in the target feature region in response to that the target feature region includes the potential recognition region.
14. The device of claim 12, wherein the processor is configured to: extract the potential recognition region from the image in response to that the target feature region includes the potential recognition region.
15. The device of claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to: determine a second feature map by extracting features from the up-sampled potential recognition region based on the feature extraction network; determine a second predict bounding box based on the second feature map and the region proposal network, wherein the second predict bounding box includes a specified feature region; and determine the classification recognition result based on the region pooling network and the specified feature region.
16. The device of claim 9, wherein the target algorithm model is pre-trained by: acquiring sample images; determining labeled sample images by labeling the designated contents and potential recognition regions in the sample images; and obtaining the target algorithm model by training an initial algorithm model based on the labeled sample images.
17. A computer readable storage medium storing computer programs that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform the operation of: acquiring an image to be recognized; determining a potential recognition region of the image based on a target algorithm model, wherein the potential recognition region includes a region with a designated content and a size no greater than a preset threshold; determining an up-sampled potential recognition region by up-sampling the potential recognition region; and determining a classification recognition result based on the up-sampled potential recognition region.
</claims>
</document>
