<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06K9/00,G06T11/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAEK, GYEONGIL
HWANG, WANYEN
YEOM, JEONGDON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67776524
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTIMEDIA DEVICE AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
Proposed is an extended reality (XR) device for providing augmented reality (AR) mode and virtual reality (VR) mode and a method of controlling the same. The extended reality (XR) device may comprise: a camera; a display; and a controller configured for: recognizing a real printed matter in an image captured in real-time by the camera; and creating an extended reality object using the recognized real printed matter and displaying the extended reality object on the display, wherein the controller is further configured for controlling the display to convert a real text in contents of the real printed matter to a virtual text in the extended reality object, wherein the virtual text has change in at least one of a layout, font type, font size, font color, or background color of the real text.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An extended reality (XR) device comprising: a camera; a display; and a controller configured for: recognizing a real printed matter in an image captured in real-time by the camera; and creating an extended reality object using the recognized real printed matter and displaying the extended reality object on the display, wherein the controller is further configured for controlling the display to convert a real text in contents of the real printed matter to a virtual text in the extended reality object, wherein the virtual text has change in at least one of a layout, font type, font size, font color, or background color of the real text.
2. The XR device of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured for controlling the display to display the extended reality object in a predetermined position of the display regardless of a position of the printed matter on the image.
3. The XR device of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured for controlling the display to display the virtual text at a predetermined font size regardless of a font size of the real text.
4. The XR device of claim 1, wherein when the controller determines that an inclination of the real printed matter relative to a horizontal plane is smaller than or equal to a first reference angle, the controller is further configured for controlling the display to display the extended reality object such that a display inclination of the extended reality object relative to the horizontal plane is changed to a predefined display inclination, wherein the predefined display inclination angle is equal to or greater than the first reference angle.
5. The XR device of claim 4, wherein when the controller determines that the inclination of the real printed matter relative to the horizontal plane is greater than the first reference angle, the controller is further configured for controlling the display to display the extended reality object such that the display inclination of the extended reality object relative to the horizontal plane is substantially the same as the inclination of the real printed matter.
6. The XR device of claim 5, wherein when the controller determines that the inclination of the real printed matter relative to the horizontal plane is greater than a second reference angle greater than the first reference angle and the predefined display inclination angle, the controller is further configured for controlling the display to display the extended reality object such that the display inclination of the extended reality object relative to the horizontal plane is substantially the same as the second reference angle.
7. The XR device of claim 1, wherein when the controller determines that the real printed matter has a curved surface, and thus a display face of the real text in the contents of the real printed matter has a curvature, the controller is further configured for controlling the display to generate the extended reality object such that a face of the virtual text thereof is free of the curvature.
8. The XR device of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to control the display to exclude a graphic corresponding to handwriting input identified in the contents of the real printed matter from the extended reality object.
9. The XR device of claim 1, wherein the extended reality device further includes an eye tracker for detecting a gaze direction of the user, wherein the controller is further configured to control the display to change a display position of the extended reality object based on the gaze direction.
10. The XR device of claim 9, wherein the controller is further configured to control the display to move a display position of the extended reality object in a direction opposite to the gaze direction.
11. A method for operating an extended reality (XR) device having a camera and a display, the method comprising: recognizing a real printed matter in an image captured in real-time by the camera; and creating an extended reality object using the recognized real printed matter and displaying the extended reality object on the display, wherein creating the extended reality object includes converting a real text in contents of the real printed matter to a virtual text in the extended reality object, wherein the virtual text has change in at least one of a layout, font type, font size, font color, or background color of the real text.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein creating and displaying the extended reality object includes displaying the extended reality object in a predetermined position of the display regardless of a position of the printed matter on the image.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein creating and displaying the extended reality object includes displaying the virtual text at a predetermined font size regardless of a font size of the real text.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein when an inclination of the real printed matter relative to a horizontal is smaller than or equal to a first reference angle, the extended reality object is displayed such that a display inclination of the extended reality object relative to the horizontal plane is changed to a predefined display inclination, wherein the predefined display inclination angle is equal to or greater than the first reference angle.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein when the inclination of the real printed matter relative to the horizontal plane is greater than the first reference angle, the extended reality object is displayed such that the display inclination of the extended reality object relative to the horizontal plane is substantially the same as the inclination of the real printed matter.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein when the inclination of the real printed matter relative to the horizontal plane is greater than a second reference angle greater than the first reference angle and the predefined display inclination angle, the extended reality object is displayed such that the display inclination of the extended reality object relative to the horizontal plane is substantially the same as the second reference angle.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein when the real printed matter has a curved surface, and thus a display face of the real text in the contents of the real printed matter has a curvature, creating and displaying the extended reality object includes creating the extended reality object such that a face of the virtual text thereof is free of the curvature.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein creating and displaying the extended reality object includes excluding a graphic corresponding to handwriting input identified in the contents of the real printed matter from the extended reality object.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein the extended reality device further includes an eye tracker for detecting a gaze direction of the user, wherein creating and displaying the extended reality object includes changing a display position of the extended reality object based on the gaze direction.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein creating and displaying the extended reality object includes moving a display position of the extended reality object in a direction opposite to the gaze direction.
</claims>
</document>
