<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/16,G06F11/34,G06F3/0488,G16H50/30,G16H80/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MINDSTRONG HEALTH
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAGUM, PAUL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71838121
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Forecasting Mood Changes from Digital Biomarkers
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention extends to methods, systems, and computer program products for forecasting mood changes from digital biomarkers and more generally for forecasting changes in a neuropsychological clinical assessment. User interaction data indicative of a user's interaction with a mobile device is passively captured over a period of time and can include keyboard timings. A function mapping is executed to compute a digital biomarker for a brain health metric from the captured user interaction data. A prior digital biomarker for the brain health metric (computed from previously captured user interaction data by executing the function mapping) is accessed. A difference is detected between the digital biomarker and the prior digital biomarker. A change in a score of the neuropsychological test score is forecast to occur within a specified time range in the future based on the detected differences. The forecast change is output.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A processor implemented method comprising: accessing user interaction data indicative of a user's interaction with a mobile device during multiple user encounters with the mobile device over a period of time, the user interaction data having been passively captured at the mobile device, the user interaction data include keyboard timings; executing a function mapping to compute a digital biomarker for a brain health metric from the accessed user interaction data, the function mapping modeling a neuropsychological test for the brain health metric; accessing a prior digital biomarker for the brain health metric, the prior digital biomarker computed from previously captured user interaction data by executing the function mapping; comparing the digital biomarker to the prior digital biomarker; detecting a difference between the digital biomarker and the prior digital biomarker; forecasting a change in a score of the neuropsychological test within a specified time range in the future based on the detected differences; and outputting the forecasted change.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the neuropsychological test is a test for depression, anxiety, mania or psychosis
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the neuropsychological test is a test of memory, processing speed, executive function, language, dexterity or intelligence.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein accessing user interaction data comprises accessing user interaction data including timing associated with a first key and second key being tapped on a virtual keyboard and the timing including one or more of: a timing associated with the duration of the first key pressed measured as the time interval between key touch and key release of the first key; another timing associated with the duration of the second key pressed measured as the time interval between key touch and key release of the second key; and an additional timing associated with the time interval between the key presses measured as the time between the key release of the first key and the key press of the second key.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first key is selected from among a char, a space, a shift key, delete, punctuation, number, a 123 key, a #+=key, or an ABC key.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein accessing user interaction data indicative of a user's interaction with a mobile device comprises accessing one or more of: applications opened at the mobile device, inputs typed at the mobile device, gesture patterns used on a touch screen of the mobile device, voice input received at the mobile device, accelerometer sensor data collected from the mobile device, gyroscopic sensor data collected from the mobile device, or the type and number of keyboard spelling autocorrections.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein forecasting a change in a score of the neuropsychological test within a specified time range in the future comprises predicting that the change is to occur between 3 and 10 days after the user interaction data was passively captured.
8. A method comprising: accessing user interaction data indicative of a user's interaction with a mobile device during multiple user encounters with the mobile device over a period of time, the user interaction data having been passively captured at the mobile device, the user interaction data include keyboard timings; executing a learning function mapping to compute a brain health metric value for a brain health metric from the accessed user interaction data, the learning function mapping modeling a neuropsychological test for the brain health metric; accessing prior user interaction data and a corresponding prior brain health metric value for the brain health metric, the prior user interaction data indicative of previously captured user mobile device interactions, the prior brain health metric value computed from the prior user interaction data by executing the learning function mapping; comparing the user interaction data and brain health metric value to the prior user interaction data and the prior brain health metric value; detecting differences between one or more of: the user interaction data and the prior user interaction data or the brain health metric value and the prior brain health metric value; and alerting a mental health provider to screen the user for a predicted clinical change based on the detected differences.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein accessing prior user interaction data and a corresponding prior brain health metric value comprises accessing prior user interaction data entered by the user at the mobile device and a prior brain health metric value for the user.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein alerting a mental health provider to screen the user for a mental health condition comprises alerting a mental health provider to screen the user for one of: depression, anxiety, mania or psychosis.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the neuropsychological test is a test of memory, processing speed, executive function, language, dexterity or intelligence.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein accessing user interaction data comprises accessing user interaction data including timing associated with a first key and second key being tapped on a virtual keyboard and the timing including one or more of: a timing associated with the duration of the first key pressed measured as the time interval between key touch and key release of the first key; another timing associated with the duration of the second key pressed measured as the time interval between key touch and key release of the second key; and an additional timing associated with the time interval between the key presses measured as the time between the key release of the first key and the key press of the second key.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first key is selected from among: a char, a space, a shift key, delete, punctuation, number, a 123 key, a #+=key, or an ABC key.
14. A computer system comprising: a processor; system memory coupled to the processor and storing instructions configured to cause the processor to: access user interaction data indicative of a user's interaction with a mobile device during multiple user encounters with the mobile device over a period of time, the user interaction data having been passively captured at the mobile device, the user interaction data include keyboard timings; execute a function mapping to compute a digital biomarker for a brain health metric from the accessed user interaction data, the function mapping modeling a neuropsychological test for the brain health metric; access a prior digital biomarker for the brain health metric, the prior digital biomarker computed from previously captured user interaction data by executing the function mapping; compare the digital biomarker to the prior digital biomarker; detect a difference between the digital biomarker and the prior digital biomarker; forecast a change in a score of the neuropsychological test within a specified time range in the future based on the detected differences; and output the forecasted change.
15. The computer system of claim 14, wherein instructions configured to cause the processor to access user interaction data comprise instructions configured to cause the processor to access user interaction data from the user previously diagnosed with a mental health issue.
16. The computer system of claim 14, wherein instructions configured to cause the processor to forecast a change in a score of the neuropsychological test within a specified time range in the future comprise instructions configured to cause the processor to predict a future relapse of a mental health condition.
17. The computer system of claim 14, wherein instructions configured to cause the processor to accessing user interaction data indicative of a user's interaction with a mobile device comprises instructions configured to cause the processor to access one or more of: applications opened at the mobile device, inputs typed at the mobile device, gesture patterns used on a touch screen of the mobile device, voice input received at the mobile device, accelerometer sensor data collected from the mobile device, gyroscopic sensor data collected from the mobile device, or the type and number of keyboard spelling autocorrections.
18. The computer system of claim 14, wherein instructions configured to cause the processor to forecast a change in a score of the neuropsychological test within a specified time range in the future comprise instructions configured to cause the processor to predict that the change is to occur between 3 and 10 days after the user interaction data was passively captured.
19. The computer system of claim 14, wherein instructions configured to accessing user interaction data comprise instructions configured to access user interaction data including timing associated with a first key and second key being tapped on a virtual keyboard and the timing including one or more of: a timing associated with the duration of the first key pressed measured as the time interval between key touch and key release of the first key; another timing associated with the duration of the second key pressed measured as the time interval between key touch and key release of the second key; and an additional timing associated with the time interval between the key presses measured as the time between the key release of the first key and the key press of the second key.
20. The computer system of claim 19, wherein the first key is selected from among: a char, a space, a shift key, delete, punctuation, number, a 123 key, a #+=key, or an ABC key.
</claims>
</document>
