<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34,G01C21/36,G06K9/00,G06T19/00,G06T7/73,H04W4/021,H04W4/024,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HERE GLOBAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARNES CRAIG
CHANDRA, Umesh
MEEK, Geoff
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71783951
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD, APPARATUS AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR USING A LOCATION GRAPH TO ENABLE NATURAL GUIDANCE
</title>

<abstract>
A method, apparatus, and computer program product are therefore provided for providing natural guidance using one or more location graphs based on a context of a user. Methods may include: receiving an indication of a location of a user; identifying a location graph of location objects proximate the location of the user; establishing a context of the user; establishing a path among the location objects of the location graph based, at least in part, on the context of the user; generating natural language guidance based on the path among the location objects; and providing natural language guidance to the user. The location of a user may include a location along a route between an origin and a destination, where identifying a location graph of location objects may include identifying a location graph of location objects proximate the route between the origin and the destination.
</abstract>

<claims>
That which is claimed:
1. An apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one non-transitory memory including computer program code instructions, the computer program code instructions configured to, when executed, cause the apparatus to at least: receive an indication of a location of a user; identify a location graph of location objects proximate the location of the user; establish a context of the user; establish a path among the location objects of the location graph based, at least in part, on the context of the user; generate natural language guidance based on the path among the location objects; and provide natural language guidance to the user.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the location of a user comprises a location along a route between an origin and a destination, and wherein causing the apparatus to identify a location graph of location objects comprises causing the apparatus to: identify a location graph of location objects proximate the route between the origin and the destination.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein causing the apparatus to identify a location graph of location objects proximate the route between the origin and the destination comprises causing the apparatus to identify a location graph of location objects within a predefined distance of the route, and within a predefined degree of separation on the location graph of location objects within the predefined distance of the route.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the location graph of location objects comprises location object nodes of objects including a physical location and semantic relationships among the location object nodes of the location graph.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein causing the apparatus to establish a path among the location objects of the location graph comprises causing the apparatus to: identify location object nodes relevant to the context of the user; analyze the semantic relationships among the location object nodes of the location graph; identify semantic relationships among the location object nodes relevant to the context of the user; and establish a path of relationships relevant to the context of the user among the location object nodes relevant to the context of the user.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: infer additional location object nodes based on the identified location object nodes based on a type of location object node.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: generate visual cues based on the path among the location objects; and provide for augmented reality of an environment of the location of the user including the visual cues.
8. A computer program product comprising at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable program code instructions stored therein, the computer-executable program code instructions comprising program code instructions to: receive an indication of a location of a user; identify a location graph of location objects proximate the location of the user; establish a context of the user; establish a path among the location objects of the location graph based, at least in part, on the context of the user; generate natural language guidance based on the path among the location objects; and provide natural language guidance to the user.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the location of a user comprises a location along a route between an origin and a destination, and wherein the program code instructions to identify a location graph of location objects comprise program code instructions to: identify a location graph of location objects proximate the route between the origin and the destination.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the program code instructions to identify a location graph of location objects proximate the route between the origin and the destination comprise program code instructions to identify a location graph of location objects within a predefined distance of the route, and within a predefined degree of separation on the location graph of location objects within the predefined distance of the route.
11. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the location graph of location objects comprises location object nodes of objects including a physical location and semantic relationships among the location object nodes of the location graph.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the program code instructions to establish a path among the location objects of the location graph comprise program code instructions to: identify location object nodes relevant to the context of the user; analyze the semantic relationships among the location object nodes of the location graph; identify semantic relationships among the location object nodes relevant to the context of the user; and establish a path of relationships relevant to the context of the user among the location object nodes relevant to the context of the user.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, further comprising program code instructions to: infer additional location object nodes based on the identified location object nodes based on a type of location object node.
14. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising program code instructions to: generate visual cues based on the path among the location objects; and provide for augmented reality of an environment of the location of the user including the visual cues.
15. A method comprising: receiving an indication of a location of a user; identifying a location graph of location objects proximate the location of the user; establishing a context of the user; establishing a path among the location objects of the location graph based, at least in part, on the context of the user; generating natural language guidance based on the path among the location objects; and providing natural language guidance to the user.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the location of a user comprises a location along a route between an origin and a destination, and wherein identifying a location graph of location objects comprises: identifying a location graph of location objects proximate the route between the origin and the destination.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein identifying a location graph of location objects proximate the route between the origin and the destination comprises identifying a location graph of location objects within a predefined distance of the route, and within a predefined degree of separation on the location graph of location objects within the predefined distance of the route.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the location graph of location objects comprises location object nodes of objects including a physical location and semantic relationships among the location object nodes of the location graph.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein establishing a path among the location objects of the location graph comprises: identifying location object nodes relevant to the context of the user; analyzing the semantic relationships among the location object nodes of the location graph; identifying semantic relationships among the location object nodes relevant to the context of the user; and establishing a path of relationships relevant to the context of the user among the location object nodes relevant to the context of the user.
20. The method of claim 15, further comprising: generating visual cues based on the path among the location objects; and providing for augmented reality of an environment of the location of the user including the visual cues.
</claims>
</document>
