<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B34/00,A61B34/10,G06F3/048,G16H10/60,G16H20/40,G16H40/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THEATOR
</assignee>

<inventors>
ASSELMANN, DOTAN
WOLF, TAMIR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71732024
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TIMELINE OVERLAY ON SURGICAL VIDEO
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for reviewing surgical videos are disclosed. A system may include at least one processor configured to implement a method including accessing at least one video of a surgical procedure and causing the at least one video to be output for display. The method may include overlaying on the at least one video outputted for display a surgical timeline, wherein the surgical timeline includes markers identifying at least one of a surgical phase, an intraoperative surgical event, and a decision making junction. The method may enable a surgeon, while viewing playback of the at least one video to select one or more markers on the surgical timeline, and thereby cause a display of the video to skip to a location associated with the selected marker.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for reviewing surgical video, the method comprising: accessing at least one video of a surgical procedure; causing the at least one video to be output for display; overlaying on the at least one video outputted for display a surgical timeline, wherein the surgical timeline includes markers identifying at least one of a surgical phase, an intraoperative surgical event, and a decision making junction; and enabling a surgeon, while viewing playback of the at least one video to select one or more markers on the surgical timeline, and thereby cause a display of the video to skip to a location associated with the selected marker.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the markers are coded by at least one of a color or a criticality level.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the surgical timeline includes textual information identifying portions of the surgical procedure.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one video includes a compilation of footage from a plurality of surgical procedures, arranged in procedural chronological order, wherein the compilation of footage depicts complications from the plurality of surgical procedures; and wherein the one or more markers are associated with the plurality of surgical procedures and are displayed on a common timeline.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more markers include a decision making junction marker corresponding to a decision making junction of the surgical procedure and the selection of the decision making junction marker enables the surgeon to view two or more alternative video clips from two or more corresponding other surgical procedures; and wherein the two or more video clips present differing conduct.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more markers include a decision making junction marker corresponding to a decision making junction of the surgical procedure; and wherein the selection of the decision making junction marker causes a display of one or more alternative possible decisions related to the selected decision making junction marker.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein one or more estimated outcomes associated with the one or more alternative possible decisions are displayed in conjunction with the display of the one or more alternative possible decisions.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the one or more estimated outcomes are a result of an analysis of a plurality of videos of past surgical procedures including respective similar decision making junctions.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein information related to a distribution of past decisions made in respective similar past decision making junctions are displayed in conjunction with the display of the alternative possible decisions.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the decision making junction of the surgical procedure is associated with a first patient, and the respective similar past decision making junctions are selected from past surgical procedures associated with patients with similar characteristics to the first patient.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the decision making junction of the surgical procedure is associated with a first medical professional, and the respective similar past decision making junctions are selected from past surgical procedures associated with medical professionals with similar characteristics to the first medical professional.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the decision making junction of the surgical procedure is associated with a first prior event in the surgical procedure, and the similar past decision making junctions are selected from past surgical procedures including prior events similar to the first prior event.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the markers include intraoperative surgical event markers, selection of an intraoperative surgical event marker enables the surgeon to view alternative video clips from differing surgical procedures, and wherein the alternative video clips present differing ways in which a selected intraoperative surgical event was handled.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the overlay on the video output is displayed before the end of the surgical procedure depicted in the displayed video.
15. The method of claim 8, wherein the analysis is based on one or more electronic medical records associated with the plurality of videos of past surgical procedures.
16. The method of claim 8, wherein the respective similar decision making junctions are similar to the decision making junction of the surgical procedure according to a similarity metric.
17. The method of claim 8, wherein the analysis includes usage of an implementation of a computer vision algorithm.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the markers relate to intraoperative surgical events and the selection of an intraoperative surgical event marker enables the surgeon to view alternative video clips from differing surgical procedures.
19. A system for reviewing surgical videos, the system comprising: at least one processor configured to: access at least one video of a surgical procedure; cause the at least one video to be output for display; overlay on the at least on video outputted for display a surgical timeline, wherein the surgical timeline includes markers identifying at least one of a surgical phase, an intraoperative surgical event, and a decision making junction; and enable a surgeon, while viewing playback of the at least one video to select one or more markers on the surgical timeline, and thereby cause a display of the video to skip to a location associated with the selected marker.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to execute operations enabling surgical video review, the operations comprising: accessing at least one video of a surgical procedure; causing the at least one video to be output for display; overlaying on the at least on video outputted for display a surgical timeline, wherein the surgical timeline includes markers identifying at least one of a surgical phase, an intraoperative surgical event, and a decision making junction; and enabling a surgeon, while viewing playback of the at least one video to select one or more markers on the surgical timeline, and thereby cause a display of the video to skip to a location associated with the selected marker.
</claims>
</document>
