<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F7/483,G06F7/548,G06F7/556,G06F9/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDIATEK
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, WEI-JEN
CHEN, YEN-YU
CHEN, YU CHIA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71516073
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Mathematical Accelerator for Artificial Intelligence Applications
</title>

<abstract>
A system includes an accelerator to accelerate the computations of nonlinear math functions. The accelerator includes a set of first evaluators and a set of second evaluators. Each of the first evaluators and the second evaluators is a fixed-function hardware circuit specialized for evaluating a respective nonlinear function. The system further includes a processor which decodes a math instruction in an instruction set, sends to the accelerator a signal identifying a nonlinear function corresponding to the math instruction, and receives an output of the nonlinear function from the accelerator. According to the signal, the accelerator evaluates the nonlinear function using one of the first evaluators. When the signal identifies the nonlinear function as a composite function, the accelerator additionally uses one of second evaluators on an output of the one first evaluator.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system operable to accelerate nonlinear math computations, comprising: an accelerator including a set of first evaluators and a set of second evaluators, wherein each of the first evaluators and the second evaluators is a fixed-function hardware circuit specialized for evaluating a respective nonlinear function; and a processor coupled to the accelerator, the processor operative to decode a math instruction in an instruction set, send to the accelerator a signal identifying a nonlinear function corresponding to the math instruction, and receive an output of the nonlinear function from the accelerator, wherein the accelerator according to the signal is operative to evaluate the nonlinear function using one of the first evaluators, and, when the signal identifies the nonlinear function as a composite function, additionally using one of second evaluators on an output of the one first evaluator.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the instruction set includes at least a compound instruction that specifies the math instruction and one or more instructions executable by the processor, and wherein the processor is operative to decode the math instruction and the one or more instructions in the compound instruction in parallel.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the accelerator includes a plurality of pipeline stages to evaluate a second nonlinear function before completing evaluation of a first nonlinear function.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the processor includes a plurality of pipeline stages to enable the accelerator to evaluate the first nonlinear function and the second nonlinear function in consecutive clock cycles.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the accelerator includes a first evaluator unit which further includes the set of first evaluators, and a second evaluator unit which further includes the set of second evaluators, and wherein the first evaluator unit has a first output path coupled to an input of the second evaluator unit, and a second output path bypassing the second evaluator unit.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor further comprises an accumulator to accumulate a nonlinear function output from the accelerator over a plurality of iterations.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the processor is operative to execute instructions to compute a softmax function using the accumulated nonlinear function output.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the instruction set includes math instructions specifying composite functions, and wherein each composite function is a composite of at least two nonlinear functions.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the composite functions include at least a sigmoid function and a hyperbolic tangent function.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the first evaluators are operative to evaluate nonlinear functions which include at least an exponential function, a logarithmic function, a reciprocal function, and a trigonometric function.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor further includes a memory to store a lookup table which associates the nonlinear function with an index identifying the nonlinear function and input parameters to be sent with the signal to the accelerator.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the accelerator further includes an input interface and an output interface to convert an input data format and an output data format, respectively.
13. A method for accelerating nonlinear math computations, comprising: receiving, by an accelerator from a processor, a signal identifying a nonlinear function corresponding to a math instruction in an instruction set of the processor; evaluating, by the accelerator according to the signal, the nonlinear function using one of first evaluators, and, when the signal identifies the nonlinear function as a composite function, additionally using one of second evaluators on an output of the one first evaluator, wherein each of the first evaluators and the second evaluators is a fixed-function hardware circuit specialized for evaluating a respective nonlinear function; and sending an output of the nonlinear function from the accelerator to the processor.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the instruction set includes at least a compound instruction that specifies the math instruction and one or more instructions executable by the processor, and wherein the processor is operative to decode the math instruction and the one or more instructions in the compound instruction in parallel.
15. The method of claim 13, further comprising: evaluating, by the accelerator, a first nonlinear function and a second nonlinear function in a plurality of pipeline stages, wherein the second nonlinear function is evaluated before completing evaluation of the first nonlinear function.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the accelerator includes a first evaluator unit which further includes the first evaluators, and a second evaluator unit which further includes the second evaluators, and wherein the method further comprises: selecting, by the accelerator according to the signal, an output path of the first evaluator unit between a first path coupled to an input of the second evaluator unit, and a second path bypassing the second evaluator unit.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the instruction set includes math instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to accumulate a nonlinear function output from the accelerator over a plurality of iterations and to compute a softmax function using the accumulated nonlinear function output.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the instruction set includes math instructions specifying composite functions, and wherein each composite function is a composite of at least two nonlinear functions.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the composite functions include at least a sigmoid function and a hyperbolic tangent function.
20. The method of claim 13, wherein evaluating the nonlinear function using one of first evaluators further comprises: evaluating the nonlinear function which is one of: an exponential function, a logarithmic function, a reciprocal function, and a trigonometric function.
</claims>
</document>
