<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FOXCONN
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIN, JUNG-YI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73045816
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR DETECTING DEFECTS, ELECTRONIC DEVICE, AND COMPUTER READABLE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A method for detecting defects in manufactured objects includes acquiring a high-resolution image of an object for test, dividing the image into a plurality of smaller sub-images and determining, by a first model, whether each of the small sub-images is similar to a preset template image. The test object is determined to be flawless, when each of the sub-images is found to be similar to a template image. When sub-images are not found sufficiently similar to template images, determining, by a second model, whether a defect is shown to exist within each sub-image, and if so the test object is declared defective. The longer application of the second model is only applied if testing for defects is not resolved by the application of the first model. An electronic device and a computer readable storage medium are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A defect detecting method comprising: acquiring an image of a test object; dividing the image of the test object into a plurality of sub-images; determining, by a first model, whether each of the plurality of sub-images is similar to a preset template image, wherein if each of the plurality of sub-images is similar to the template image, determining that the test object has no defect, and if any of the plurality of the sub-images is not similar to the template image, determining, by a second model, whether at least one defect exists within the sub-image; and determining that the test object comprise at least one defect if at least one defect exists within the sub-image.
2. The defect detecting method of claim 1, wherein a process of determining whether each of the plurality of sub-images is similar the template image, comprises: matching each of the plurality of sub-images against the template image; obtaining a similarity value of each of the plurality of sub-images according to the first model; determining whether the similarity value is greater than a preset value, wherein determining that the sub-image is similar to the template image, if the similarity value is greater than or equal to the preset value, and determining that the sub-image is not similar to the template image, if the similarity value is not greater than the preset value.
3. The defect detecting method of claim 1, wherein the first model is a similarity judgment model comprising a formula for calculating similarities between images.
4. The defect detecting method of claim 1, wherein the first model is a convolutional neural network model.
5. The defect detecting method of claim 1, wherein the second model is convolutional neural network model.
6. The defect detecting method of claim 1, wherein a process of dividing the image of the test object into a plurality of sub-images comprises: searching for an effective edge of the image of the test object; distinguishing the detection area and the non-detection area of the image; and dividing the detection area into the plurality of sub-images.
7. The defect detecting method of claim 1, wherein in a process of dividing the image of the test object into a plurality of sub-images, the image of the test object is evenly divided into the plurality of sub-images according to a size of the template image.
8. An electronic device, configured for detecting a defect on a surface of a detect object, comprising: at least one processor; at least one storage device storing one or more programs, when executed by the processor, the one or more programs cause the processor to: acquire an image of a test object; divide the image of the test object into a plurality of sub-images; determine, by a first model, whether each of the plurality of sub-images is similar to a preset template image, wherein if each of the plurality of sub-images is similar to the template image, determine that the test object has no defect, and if any of the plurality of the sub-images is not similar to the template image, determine, by a second model, whether at least one defect exists within the sub-image; and determine that the test object comprise at least one defect if at least one defect exists within the sub-image.
9. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein a process of determining whether each of the sub-images is similar the template image, comprises: matching each of the plurality of sub-images against the template image; obtaining a similarity value of each of the plurality of sub-images according to the first model; determining whether the similarity value is greater than a preset value, wherein determining that the sub-image is similar to the template image, if the similarity value is greater than or equal to the preset value, and determining that the sub-image is not similar to the template image, if the similarity value is not greater than the preset value.
10. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the first model is a similarity judgment model comprising a formula for calculating image similarity.
11. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the first model is a convolutional neural network model.
12. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the second model is convolutional neural network model.
13. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein a process of dividing the image of the test object into a plurality of sub-images comprises: searching for an effective edge of the image of the test object; distinguishing the detection area and the non-detection area of the image; and dividing the detection area into the plurality of sub-images.
14. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein in a process of dividing the image of the test object into a plurality of sub-images, the image of the test object is evenly divided into the plurality of sub-images according to a size of the template image.
15. A computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing device, causes the processor to perform a defect detecting method, wherein the method comprises: acquiring an image of a test object; dividing the image of the test object into a plurality of sub-images; determining, by a first model, whether each of the plurality of sub-images is similar to a preset template image, wherein if each of the plurality of sub-images is similar to the template image, determining that the test object has no defect, and if any of the plurality of the sub-images is not similar to the template image, determining, by a second model, whether at least one defect exists within the sub-image; and determining that the test object comprise at least one defect if at least one defect exists within the sub-image.
16. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein a process of determining whether each of the sub-images is similar the corresponding template image, comprises: matching each of the plurality of sub-images against the template image; obtaining a similarity value of each of the plurality of sub-images according to the first model; determining whether the similarity value is greater than a preset value, wherein determining that the sub-image is similar to the template image, if the similarity value is greater than or equal to the preset value, and determining that the sub-image is not similar to the template image, if the similarity value is not greater than the preset value.
17. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the first model is a similarity judgment model, the second model is a convolutional neural network model.
18. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein a process of dividing the image of the test object into a plurality of sub-images comprises: searching for an effective edge of the image of the test object; distinguishing the detection area and the non-detection area of the image; and dividing the detection area into the plurality of sub-images.
19. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein in a process of dividing the image of the test object into a plurality of sub-images, the image of the test object is evenly divided into the plurality of sub-images according to a size of the template image.
</claims>
</document>
