<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T1/20,G06T15/00,G06T5/00,G06T7/13,G06T7/136,G06T7/593
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BISWAL, NARAYAN
XIAO KAI
TANNER, JASON
BOYCE, JILL
TRIPP, JEFFREY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69229641
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REMOVAL OF PROJECTION NOISE AND POINT-BASED RENDERING
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments described herein provide an apparatus comprising a processor to divide a first image projection into a plurality of regions, the plurality of regions comprising a plurality of points, determine an accuracy rating for the plurality of regions, and apply one of a first rendering technique to a first region in the plurality of regions when the accuracy rating for the first region in the plurality of regions fails to meet an accuracy threshold or a second rendering technique to the first region in the plurality of regions when the accuracy rating for the first region in the plurality of regions meets an accuracy threshold, and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor. Other embodiments may be described and claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: dividing a first image projection into a plurality of regions, the plurality of regions comprising a plurality of points; determining an accuracy rating for the plurality of regions; and applying one of a first rendering technique to a first region in the plurality of regions when the accuracy rating for the first region in the plurality of regions fails to meet an accuracy threshold or a second rendering technique to the first region in the plurality of regions when the accuracy rating for the first region in the plurality of regions meets an accuracy threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: rendering the first region from the plurality of regions using data from the first projection when the accuracy rating for the first region meets the accuracy threshold.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: rendering the first region from the plurality of regions using data from a second image projection, different from the first image projection, when the accuracy rating for the first region fails to meet the accuracy threshold.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining an accuracy rating for the plurality of regions comprises: analyzing a plurality of depth images of the plurality of regions with an edge detector to detect discontinuities in depth parameters of the plurality of points in the plurality of regions.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a uniformity of depth parameter for the plurality of points in the plurality of regions.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein determining a uniformity of depth parameter for a region in the plurality of regions comprises: determining an average depth parameter for the region; and determining a standard deviation depth parameter for the region.
7. A non-transitory machine readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: dividing a first image projection into a plurality of regions, the plurality of regions comprising a plurality of points; determining an accuracy rating for the plurality of regions; and applying one of a first rendering technique to a first region in the plurality of regions when the accuracy rating for the first region in the plurality of regions fails to meet an accuracy threshold or a second rendering technique to the first region in the plurality of regions when the accuracy rating for the first region in the plurality of regions meets an accuracy threshold.
8. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 7, the operations additionally comprising: rendering the first region from the plurality of regions using data from the first projection when the accuracy rating for the first region meets the accuracy threshold.
9. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 7, the operations additionally comprising: rendering the first region from the plurality of regions using data from a second image projection, different from the first image projection, when the accuracy rating for the first region fails to meet the accuracy threshold.
10. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 7, the operations additionally comprising: analyzing a plurality of depth images of the plurality of regions with an edge detector to detect discontinuities in depth parameters of the plurality of points in the plurality of regions.
11. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 7, the operations additionally comprising: determining a uniformity of depth parameter for the plurality of points in the plurality of regions.
12. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 11, the operations additionally comprising: determining an average depth parameter for the region; and determining a standard deviation depth parameter for the region.
13. An apparatus, comprising: a processor to divide a first image projection into a plurality of regions, the plurality of regions comprising a plurality of points, determine an accuracy rating for the plurality of regions, and apply one of a first rendering technique to a first region in the plurality of regions when the accuracy rating for the first region in the plurality of regions fails to meet an accuracy threshold or a second rendering technique to the first region in the plurality of regions when the accuracy rating for the first region in the plurality of regions meets an accuracy threshold; and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, the processor to render the first region from the plurality of regions using data from the first projection when the accuracy rating for the first region meets the accuracy threshold.
15. The apparatus of claim 13, the processor to render the first region from the plurality of regions using data from a second image projection, different from the first image projection, when the accuracy rating for the first region fails to meet the accuracy threshold.
16. The apparatus of claim 13, the processor to analyze a plurality of depth images of the plurality of regions with an edge detector to detect discontinuities in depth parameters of the plurality of points in the plurality of regions.
17. The apparatus of claim 13, the processor to determine a uniformity of depth parameter for the plurality of points in the plurality of regions.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, the processor to determine an average depth parameter for the region, and determine a standard deviation depth parameter for the region.
19. A method, comprising: computing a dense motion field for a plurality of pixels in a current image frame; warping the dense motion field for the plurality of pixels in the current image frame forward in time to generate a forward reprojected dense motion field; analyzing the forward reprojected dense motion field to determine whether a hole is likely to appear in a region of a next image frame; and filling the hole by fetching a patch for the region for the next image frame.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the dense motion field is computed on a pixel-by-pixel basis for an image.
21. The method of claim 19, further comprising: computing a velocity vector for the plurality of pixels in the current frame.
22. A non-transitory machine readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: computing a dense motion field for a plurality of pixels in a current image frame; warping the dense motion field for the plurality of pixels in the current image frame forward in time to generate a forward reprojected dense motion field; analyzing the forward reprojected dense motion field to determine whether a hole is likely to appear in a region of a next image frame; and filling the hole by fetching a patch for the region for the next image frame.
23. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 22, wherein the dense motion field is computed on a pixel-by-pixel basis for an image.
24. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 22, the operations additionally comprising: computing a velocity vector for the plurality of pixels in the current image frame.
25. An apparatus, comprising: a processor to compute a dense motion field for a plurality of pixels in a current image frame, warp the dense motion field for the plurality of pixels in the current image frame forward in time to generate a forward reprojected dense motion field, analyze the forward reprojected dense motion field to determine whether a hole is likely to appear in a region of a next image frame, and fill the hole by fetching a patch for the region for the next image frame; and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor.
26. The apparatus of claim 25, the processor to render the first region from the plurality of regions using data from the first projection when the accuracy rating for the first region meets the accuracy threshold.
27. The apparatus of claim 25, the processor to render a first region from the plurality of regions using data from a second projection, different from the first projection, when the accuracy rating for the first region fails to meet the accuracy threshold.
</claims>
</document>
