<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G06N3/08,G10L15/16,G10L25/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRONG FORCE INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
CELLA, CHARLES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69953381
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
Transportation systems have artificial intelligence including neural networks for recognition and classification of objects and behavior including natural language processing and computer vision systems. The transportation systems involve sets of complex chemical processes, mechanical systems, and interactions with behaviors of operators. System-level interactions and behaviors are classified, predicted and optimized using neural networks and other artificial intelligence systems through selective deployment, as well as hybrids and combinations of the artificial intelligence systems, neural networks, expert systems, cognitive systems, genetic algorithms and deep learning.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An artificial intelligence system for voice processing to improve rider satisfaction in a transportation system, comprising: a rider voice capture system deployed to capture voice output of a rider occupying a vehicle; a voice-analysis circuit trained using machine learning that classifies an emotional state of the rider for the captured voice output of the rider; and an expert system trained using machine learning that optimizes at least one operating parameter of the vehicle to change the rider emotional state to an emotional state classified as an improved emotional state.
2. The artificial intelligence system of claim 1 wherein the rider voice capture system comprises an intelligent agent that engages in a dialog with the rider to obtain rider feedback for use by the voice-analysis circuit for rider emotional state classification.
3. The artificial intelligence system of claim 1 wherein the voice-analysis circuit uses a first machine learning system and the expert system uses a second machine learning system.
4. The artificial intelligence system of claim 1 wherein the expert system is trained to optimize the at least one operating parameter based on feedback of outcomes of the emotional states when adjusting the at least one operating parameter for a set of individuals.
5. The artificial intelligence system of claim 1 further comprising a rule-based rider state model that configures a set of iterations of the vehicle state while continuously monitoring the emotional state of the rider via an ongoing dialog with respect to the parameters of the model.
6. The artificial intelligence system of claim 1 wherein the emotional state of the rider is determined by a combination of the captured voice output of the rider and at least one other parameter.
7. The artificial intelligence system of claim 6 wherein the at least one other parameter is a camera-based emotional state determination of the rider.
8. The artificial intelligence system of claim 6 wherein the at least one other parameter is traffic information.
9. The artificial intelligence system of claim 6 wherein the at least one other parameter is weather information.
10. The artificial intelligence system of claim 6 wherein the at least one other parameter is a vehicle state.
11. The artificial intelligence system of claim 6 wherein the at least one other parameter is at least one pattern of physiological data of the rider.
12. The artificial intelligence system of claim 6 wherein the at least one other parameter is a route of the vehicle.
13. The artificial intelligence system of claim 6 wherein the at least one other parameter is in-vehicle audio content.
14. The artificial intelligence system of claim 6 wherein the at least one other parameter is a speed of the vehicle.
15. The artificial intelligence system of claim 6 wherein the at least one other parameter is acceleration of the vehicle.
16. The artificial intelligence system of claim 6 wherein the at least one other parameter is deceleration of the vehicle.
17. The artificial intelligence system of claim 6 wherein the at least one other parameter is proximity to objects along the route.
18. The artificial intelligence system of claim 6 wherein the at least one other parameter is proximity to other vehicles along the route.
19. An artificial intelligence system for voice processing to improve rider satisfaction, comprising: a first neural network trained to classify emotional states based on analysis of human voices detects an emotional state of a rider through recognition of aspects of the voice of the rider captured while the rider is occupying the vehicle that correlate to at least one emotional state of the rider; and a second neural network that optimizes, for achieving a favorable emotional state of the rider, an operational parameter of the vehicle in response to the detected emotional state of the rider.
20. The artificial intelligence system of claim 19 wherein at least one of the neural networks is a convolutional neural network.
21. The artificial intelligence system of claim 19 wherein the first neural network is trained through use of a training data set that associates emotional state classes with human voice patterns.
22. The artificial intelligence system of claim 19 wherein the first neural network is trained through the use of a training data set of voice recordings that are tagged with emotional state identifying data.
23. The artificial intelligence system of claim 19 further comprising a rule-based rider state model that configures a set of iterations of the vehicle state while continuously monitoring the emotional state of the rider via an ongoing dialog with respect to the parameters of the model.
24. The artificial intelligence system of claim 19 wherein the emotional state of the rider is determined by a combination of the captured voice output of the rider and at least one other parameter.
25. The artificial intelligence system of claim 24 wherein the at least one other parameter is a camera-based emotional state determination of the rider.
26. The artificial intelligence system of claim 24 wherein the at least one other parameter is traffic information.
27. The artificial intelligence system of claim 24 wherein the at least one other parameter is weather information.
28. The artificial intelligence system of claim 24 wherein the at least one other parameter is a vehicle state.
29. The artificial intelligence system of claim 24 wherein the at least one other parameter is at least one pattern of physiological data of the rider.
30. The artificial intelligence system of claim 24 wherein the at least one other parameter is a route of the vehicle.
31. The artificial intelligence system of claim 24 wherein the at least one other parameter is in-vehicle audio content.
32. The artificial intelligence system of claim 24 wherein the at least one other parameter is a speed of the vehicle.
33. The artificial intelligence system of claim 24 wherein the at least one other parameter is acceleration of the vehicle.
34. The artificial intelligence system of claim 24 wherein the at least one other parameter is deceleration of the vehicle.
35. The artificial intelligence system of claim 24 wherein the at least one other parameter is proximity to objects along the route.
36. The artificial intelligence system of claim 24 wherein the at least one other parameter is proximity to other vehicles along the route.
</claims>
</document>
