<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-07-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/02,G06N5/04,G16H10/20,G16H10/60,G16H40/20,G16H50/20,G16H50/30,G16H50/50,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PARKLAND CENTER FOR CLINICAL INNOVATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMARASINGHAM, RUBENDRAN
SHAH, ANAND
SIVA, VAIDYANATHA
WILSON, JENNIFER
FENNIRI, STEPHANIE
TOWNES, ALEXANDER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55074970
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Client Management Tool System and Method
</title>

<abstract>
A client management tool system comprises a gateway module configured to provide access to a data store storing clinical and non-clinical data, a collection of computerized question forms configured to obtain additional data about a client, a predictive model including a plurality of weighted variables and thresholds in consideration of the client data to identify needs of the client and a valuation of services to address the client needs, a knowledgebase of available programs and service providers able to deliver the needed services, a client management toolkit configured to provide recommended a course of action in response to the identified client need, valuation, and available programs and services providers, and a data presentation module operable to present notifications, alerts, and outcome report related to service delivery to the client.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system adapted for execution on a computer system coupled to a global computer network, comprising: a consent interface configured to automatically query for, receive, and organize consents and permissions from a plurality of clients for compliance with laws and regulations; a gateway module configured to provide access to a data store storing client data associated with the plurality of clients including clinical and non-clinical data, and the consents and permissions; a collection of computerized question forms configured to obtain additional data about each client; at least one predictive model including a plurality of weighted variables and thresholds in consideration of the client data to identify clinical and non-clinical needs of the client and a valuation of services to address the clinical and non-clinical client needs; a knowledgebase of available programs and service providers able to deliver clinical and non-clinical services; a client management toolkit configured to provide recommended a course of action in response to the identified clinical and non-clinical client need, predictive model valuation, and available programs and services providers to address clinical and non-clinical client needs; a calendaring module configured for scheduling clinical and non-clinical services associated with the recommend program or service providers; and a data presentation module operable to present notifications, alerts, and reports related to service delivery of the scheduled clinical and non-clinical services.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the clinical data are selected from at least one member of the group consisting of: vital signs and other physiological data; data associated with physical exams by a physician, nurse, or allied health professional; medical history; allergy and adverse medical reactions; family medical information; prior surgical information; emergency room records; medication administration records; culture results; dictated clinical notes and records; gynecological and obstetric information; mental status examination; vaccination records; radiological imaging exams; invasive visualization procedures; psychiatric treatment information; prior histological specimens; laboratory data; genetic information; physician's and nurses' notes; networked devices and monitors; pharmaceutical and supplement intake information; and focused genotype testing.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the non-clinical data are selected from at least one member of the group consisting of: social, behavioral, lifestyle, and economic data; type and nature of employment data; job history data; medical insurance information; hospital utilization patterns; exercise information; addictive substance use data; occupational chemical exposure records; frequency of physician or health system contact logs; location and frequency of habitation change data; predictive screening health questionnaires; personality tests; census and demographic data; neighborhood environment data; dietary data; participation in food, housing, and utilities assistance registries; gender; marital status; education data; proximity and number of family or care-giving assistant data; address data; housing status data; social media data; educational level data; and data entered by clients.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the collection of computerized question forms comprises at least one intake form.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the collection of computerized question forms comprises at least one client assessment form.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the predictive model uses artificial intelligence to quantify a degree of difficulty associated with a program recommended for a client and determine a relative value unit score.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the predictive model considers a client's health conditions and social and environmental factors to quantify a degree of difficulty associated with services needed by a client and determine a relative value unit score.
8. A method, comprising: receiving and storing client data associated with a plurality of clients including clinical and non-clinical data; presenting a questionnaire form including a plurality of questions, and receiving answers in response to the plurality of questions in the questionnaire; automatically storing and organizing the received client data in a data store according to a social data model; automatically identifying clinical and non-clinical needs of each client and determining a value score of services to address the clinical and non-clinical client needs; automatically making a recommendation of course of action of needed services according to the clinical and non-clinical client needs; automatically making a referral recommendation to available programs or services according to the recommended course of action of needed services; automatically presenting a query for, receive, and organize consent and permission from the clients in compliance with laws and regulations; calendaring appointments for the needed services; and automatically receiving data, monitoring, and reporting on progress and outcome of service delivery to the clients.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein receiving and storing data comprises receiving and storing clinical data are selected from at least one member of the group consisting of: vital signs and other physiological data; data associated with physical exams by a physician, nurse, or allied health professional; medical history; allergy and adverse medical reactions; family medical information; prior surgical information; emergency room records; medication administration records; culture results; dictated clinical notes and records; gynecological and obstetric information; mental status examination; vaccination records; radiological imaging exams; invasive visualization procedures; psychiatric treatment information; prior histological specimens; laboratory data; genetic information; physician's and nurses' notes; networked devices and monitors; pharmaceutical and supplement intake information; and focused genotype testing.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein receiving and storing data comprises receiving and storing non-clinical data are selected from at least one member of the group consisting of: social, behavioral, lifestyle, and economic data; type and nature of employment data; job history data; medical insurance information; hospital utilization patterns; exercise information; addictive substance use data; occupational chemical exposure records; frequency of physician or health system contact logs; location and frequency of habitation change data; predictive screening health questionnaires; personality tests; census and demographic data; neighborhood environment data; dietary data; participation in food, housing, and utilities assistance registries; gender; marital status; education data; proximity and number of family or care-giving assistant data; address data; housing status data; social media data; educational level data; and data entered by clients.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein presenting a questionnaire form comprises presenting an intake form.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein presenting a questionnaire form comprises presenting a client assessment form.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein identifying needs of the client and determining a value score of services comprises using artificial intelligence to quantify a degree of difficulty associated with a program recommended for a client and determine a relative value unit score.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein identifying needs of the client and determining a value score of services comprises considering a client's health conditions and social and environmental factors to quantify a degree of difficulty associated with services needed by a client and determine a relative value unit score.
15. A client management method comprising: displaying a list of clients; displaying an appointment calendar showing scheduled appointments in clinical and non-clinical programs for the clients; querying for, receiving, and organizing consents and permissions in compliance of laws and regulations from the clients; displaying an intake questionnaire form including a plurality of questions, and receiving answers related to each client in response to the plurality of questions in the questionnaire; automatically storing client data including clinical and non-clinical data, the consents and permissions, and the answers to the questionnaire in a structured database; automatically accessing client data for analysis; automatically identifying needs of each client and determining a value score of clinical and non-clinical services to address the client needs based on the client data; automatically making a recommendation of course of action including needed services according to the client needs; automatically querying a database, determining and displaying recommended programs and services providers able to deliver the needed services; automatically making a referral to the recommended program or service providers; scheduling the recommended program or service for the clients; and automatically calendaring appointments for scheduled services associated with the recommend program or services.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: presenting and displaying notification and/or information of the recommendation; automatically receiving data related to progress of service delivery to the client; and generating an outcome report associated with service delivery of the scheduled program or services.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising displaying an assessment questionnaire form including a plurality of questions, and receiving answers related to a client in response to the plurality of questions in the assessment questionnaire.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising displaying data associated with clients enrolled in a particular program.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein identifying needs of the client and determining a value score of services comprises using artificial intelligence to quantify a degree of difficulty associated with a program recommended for a client and determine a relative value unit score.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein identifying needs of the client and determining a value score of services comprises considering a client's health conditions and social and environmental factors to quantify a degree of difficulty associated with services needed by a client and determine a relative value unit score.
</claims>
</document>
