<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BECKMAN COULTER
</assignee>

<inventors>
MENHARDT, WIDO
Moellers, Christoph
Kookal, Santosh
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64110307
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATICALLY GENERATING RULES FOR LAB INSTRUMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are methods and systems for automatically generating processing rules to be used for automated decision-making when operating instruments to analyze and process biological samples (e.g., for the presence, absence, or concentration of analytes). For example, some automatically generated processing rules may set forth conditions and criteria in which some test results obtained from the biological samples can be automatically validated and sent out, while other test results are flagged for additional review. The processing rules can be generated based on patterns observed with the actions taken for historical test results associated with similar biological samples.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by a sample processing system , the method comprising: executing a first set of test orders for a first plurality of samples; processing the first plurality of samples to obtain a first plurality of test results; and generating one or more processing rules based at least on input data and the first plurality of test results.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample processing system comprises: an information management apparatus comprising a first data processor and a first computer readable medium; and a control system comprising a second data processor, and a second computer readable medium, the control system communicatively coupled to the information management apparatus, wherein executing the first set of test orders for the first plurality of samples includes executing, by the control system, the first set of test orders for the first plurality of samples received from the information management apparatus, so that the first plurality of samples are processed on one or more instruments in communication with the control system, wherein the control system performs the step of generating the one or more processing rules, and wherein the method further comprises: receiving, by the information management apparatus, the first set of test orders for the first plurality of samples; providing, by the information management apparatus, the first set of test orders to the control system; receiving, by the control system, the first plurality of test results from the one or more instruments corresponding to the first set of test orders; providing, by the control system, the first plurality of test results to the information management apparatus; receiving, by the information management apparatus, the input data from the information management apparatus, receiving, by the control system, the input data from the information management apparatus; after generating the one or more processing rules, receiving, by the control system from the information management apparatus, additional test orders for an additional plurality of samples; and after generating the one or more processing rules, executing, by the control system, the additional test orders for the additional plurality of samples, so that the additional plurality of samples are processed on the one or more instruments in communication with the control system according to the one or more generated processing rules.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the one or more processing rules based at least on the input data and the test results, comprises: grouping a set of test results within the first plurality of test results; and determining at least one threshold based upon the set of test results, wherein at least one of the one or more processing rules incorporates the at least one threshold.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the at least one threshold comprises a lower threshold and a higher threshold.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the lower threshold and higher threshold are also defined in part by historical sample data in a patient repository.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the lower threshold and the higher threshold relates to one or more of a normal category, an abnormal category and/or a severe category for a sample.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising, after generating the one or more processing rules: generating an inquiry requesting a user to confirm use of the one or more generated processing rules for sample processing; providing the inquiry to the user via an output device in the information management apparatus; receiving, a selection of the one or more generated processing rules; and storing, the one or more generated processing rules in a data storage.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the input data comprises a second plurality of test orders corresponding to a second plurality of samples.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more processing rules comprises a rule which causes a first instrument or second instrument to process a biological sample if a first instrument determines that the biological sample has a measurement value above or below a predetermined value.
10. The method of claim 1 , wherein generating the one or more processing rules based at least on the input data and the first plurality of test results comprises using an artificial intelligence algorithm to generate the one or more processing rules.
11. A sample processing system comprising: a data processor; and a computer readable medium, the computer readable comprising code executable by the data processor to perform a method including: executing a first set of test orders for a first plurality of samples; processing the first plurality of samples to obtain a first plurality of test results; and generating one or more processing rules based at least on input data and the first plurality of test results.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the sample processing system further comprises: an information management apparatus comprising a first data processor and a first computer readable medium; and a control system comprising a second data processor, and a second computer readable medium, the control system communicatively coupled to the information management apparatus, wherein the second data processor is the data processor, wherein the second computer readable medium is the computer readable medium, and wherein executing the first set of test orders for the first plurality of samples includes executing, by the control system, the first set of test orders for the first plurality of samples received from the information management apparatus, so that the first plurality of samples are processed on one or more instruments in communication with the control system, wherein the first computer readable medium comprises code, executable by the first data processor, to cause the first data processor to perform a method including: receiving the first set of test orders for the plurality of samples; and providing the first set of test orders to the control system; and wherein the second computer readable medium comprises code, executable by the second data processor, to cause the second data processor to perform a method including: receiving the first plurality of test results from the one or more instruments corresponding to the first set of test orders; providing the first plurality of test results to the information management apparatus; receiving the input data from the information management apparatus; after generating the one or more processing rules, receiving, by the control system from the information management apparatus, additional test orders for an additional plurality of samples; and after generating the one or more processing rules, executing, by the control system, the additional test orders for the additional plurality of samples, so that the additional plurality of samples are processed on the one or more instruments in communication with the control system according to the one or more generated processing rules.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein generating one or more processing rules based at least on the input data and the test results, comprises: grouping a set of test results within the first plurality of test results; and determining at least one threshold based upon the set of test results, wherein at least one of the one or more processing rules incorporates the at least one threshold.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the at least one threshold comprises a lower threshold and a higher threshold.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the lower threshold and higher threshold are also defined in part by historical sample data in a patient repository.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the lower threshold and the higher threshold relates to one or more of a normal category, an abnormal category and/or a severe category for a sample.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the information management apparatus further comprises: an output device operatively coupled to the first data processor, the output device configured to provide an inquiry requesting a user to confirm use of the one or more generated processing rules for sample processing, and receiving, a selection of the one or more generated processing rules. storing, the one or more generated processing rules in a data storage.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the input data comprises a second plurality of test orders corresponding to a second plurality of samples.
19. The system of claim 12, wherein the second computer readable medium code executable by the second data processor to perform the method further including: receiving the first plurality of test results from the one or more instruments corresponding to the first plurality of test orders; providing the first plurality of test results to the information management apparatus; and receiving the input data from the information management apparatus.
20. One or more non-transitory computer readable media, the one or more non-transitory computer readable media comprising code, executable by one or more data processors, to implement a method comprising: executing a first set of test orders for a first plurality of samples; processing the first plurality of samples to obtain a first plurality of test results; and generating one or more processing rules based at least on input data and the first plurality of test results.
</claims>
</document>
