<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/00,G10L15/18,G10L15/22,G10L15/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CORETRONIC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIN MING CHENG
KAN, WEI-HSIN
CHEN, YU-MENG
DAI, JI-CHENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65763358
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT VOICE SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING PROJECTOR BY USING THE INTELLIGENT VOICE SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure provides an intelligent voice system and a method for controlling a projector. The system includes a voice assistant, a cloud service platform, a projector, and a management server. When the voice assistant receives a voice signal for controlling the projector, the voice assistant extracts keywords from the voice signal and transmits the keywords to the cloud service platform, wherein the keywords include an alias corresponding to the projector and a first control command, and the cloud service platform includes second control commands. The cloud service platform analyzes the first control command, retrieves the corresponding second control command according to the first control command, and transmits the alias of the projector and the corresponding second control command to the management server. The management server accesses/controls the projector in response to the alias and adjusts the projector as a first operating state according to the corresponding second control command.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An intelligent voice system comprising: a first voice assistant; a first cloud service platform, connected to the first voice assistant and adapted to manage the first voice assistant; a first projector; and a management server, connected to the first cloud service platform and the first projector and configured to manage and control the first projector, wherein when the first voice assistant receives a first voice signal for controlling the first projector, the first voice assistant extracts a plurality of first keywords from the first voice signal and transmits the plurality of first keywords to the first cloud service platform, wherein the plurality of first keywords comprises a first alias corresponding to the first projector and a first control command, wherein the first cloud service platform comprises a first semantic analyzing program, and the first cloud service platform comprises a plurality of second control commands, the first cloud service platform analyzes the first control command according to the first semantic analyzing program, acquires, retrieves, or generates the corresponding second control command according to the first control command, and transmits the first alias of the first projector and the corresponding second control command to the management server, and the management server accesses the first projector in response to the first alias and adjusts the first projector as a first operating state according to the corresponding second control command.
2. The intelligent voice system of claim 1, wherein the first projector is registered on the management server in advance based on the first alias and unique identification information of the first projector.
3. The intelligent voice system of claim 1, wherein the first alias of the first projector is selected from a plurality of predetermined aliases provided by the management server in a registration process of the first projector.
4. The intelligent voice system of claim 1, wherein after the first projector is adjusted to the first operating state, the first projector reports the first operating state to the management server, the management server forwards the first operating state to the first cloud service platform, and the first cloud service platform generates a first response sentence according to the first operating state and sends the first response sentence to the first voice assistant such that the first voice assistant outputs the first response sentence.
5. The intelligent voice system of claim 1, wherein the second control commands are pre-established in the first cloud service platform or generated through artificial intelligence or machine learning.
6. The intelligent voice system of claim 1, wherein the first semantic analyzing program comprises a first lookup table, and the second control commands are established in the first lookup table.
7. The intelligent voice system of claim 1, wherein the first semantic analyzing program comprises information corresponding to the plurality of second control commands.
8. The intelligent voice system of claim 1, wherein the first cloud service platform comprises a database, and the second control commands are stored in the database, wherein the database comprises a first lookup table, and the second control commands are established in the first lookup table.
9. The intelligent voice system of claim 1, wherein the adjusted first projector as the first operating state is turning on the first projector.
10. The intelligent voice system of claim 1, wherein the adjusted first projector as the first operating state is starting a menu of on screen display of the first projector.
11. The intelligent voice system of claim 1, wherein the adjusted first projector as the first operating state is adjusting a projection brightness of the first projector.
12. The intelligent voice system of claim 1, wherein the management server generates a corresponding third control command according to the second control command corresponding to the first control command and transmits the third control command to a controller of the first projector, and the controller of the first projector receives the third control command and adjusts the first operating state of the first projector according to the third control command.
13. The intelligent voice system of claim 12, wherein the controller of the first projector comprises a first program, and the controller of the first projector receives the third control command, acquires a fourth control command according to the first program, and adjusts the first operating state of the first projector according to the fourth control command, wherein the fourth control command comprises a digital signal.
14. The intelligent voice system of claim 13, wherein the first program of the first projector comprises a second lookup table, and the second lookup table comprises pre-established fifth control commands and the corresponding fourth control commands, wherein the fifth control commands are identical to the third control commands.
15. The intelligent voice system of claim 12, wherein the first projector comprises at least one electronic component, and the third control command comprises information of the at least one electronic component and a signal for controlling the at least one electronic component, wherein the at least one electronic component comprises at least one of a fan, a light source driver, and a speaker, the information of the at least one electronic component comprises an identification code of the at least one electronic component, and the signal for controlling the at least one electronic component comprises a voltage or a current.
16. The intelligent voice system of claim 1, further comprising: a second voice assistant; a second cloud service platform, connected to the second voice assistant and the management server and adapted to manage the second voice assistant, wherein when the second voice assistant receives a second voice signal for controlling the first projector, the second voice assistant extracts a plurality of second keywords from the second voice signal and transmits the plurality of second keywords to the second cloud service platform, wherein the plurality of second keywords comprises the first alias corresponding to the first projector and a sixth control command, wherein the second cloud service platform comprises a second semantic analyzing program and the second cloud service platform comprises a plurality of seventh control commands, the second cloud service platform analyzes the sixth control command according to the second semantic analyzing program, acquires the corresponding seventh control command according to the sixth control command, and transmits the first alias of the first projector and the seventh control command corresponding to the sixth control command to the management server, and the management server accesses the first projector in response to the first alias and adjusts the first projector as a second operating state according to the seventh control command corresponding to the sixth control command.
17. The intelligent voice system of claim 16, wherein a language of the first voice signal is different from a language of the second voice signal, wherein when the first voice assistant receives the second voice signal and the first semantic analyzing program cannot recognize the second voice signal, the first voice assistant outputs a response sentence of recognition failure, and when the second voice assistant receives the first voice signal and the second semantic analyzing program cannot recognize the first voice signal, the second voice assistant outputs a response sentence of recognition failure.
18. The intelligent voice system of claim 16, wherein a language of the first voice signal is the same as a language of the second voice signal, wherein when the first voice assistant receives the second voice signal for controlling the first projector, the first voice assistant extracts the plurality of second keywords from the second voice signal and transmits the plurality of second keywords to the first cloud service platform, wherein the plurality of second keywords comprises the first alias corresponding to the first projector and the sixth control command, the first cloud service platform analyzes the sixth control command according to the first semantic analyzing program, acquires an eighth control command according to the sixth control command, and transmits the first alias of the first projector and the eighth control command to the management server, and the management server accesses the first projector in response to the first alias and adjusts the first projector again as the second operating state according to the eighth control command corresponding to the sixth control command.
19. The intelligent voice system of claim 18, wherein the eighth control command is one of the plurality of second control commands.
20. The intelligent voice system according to claim 1, further comprising: a second projector connected to and controlled by the management server, wherein when the first voice assistant receives a third voice signal for controlling the second projector, the first voice assistant extracts a plurality of third keywords from the third voice signal and transmits the plurality of third keywords to the first cloud service platform, wherein the plurality of third keywords comprises a second alias corresponding to the second projector and a ninth control command, and the first cloud service platform analyzes the ninth control command according to the first semantic analyzing program, acquires a tenth control command according to the ninth control command, and transmits the second alias of the second projector and the tenth control command corresponding to the ninth control command to the management server, and the management server accesses the second projector in response to the second alias and adjusts the second projector as a third operating state according to the tenth control command corresponding to the ninth control command.
21. The intelligent voice system of claim 20, wherein the tenth control command is one of the plurality of second control commands.
22. The intelligent voice system of claim 20, wherein the second projector is registered on the management server in advance based on the second alias and unique identification information of the second projector.
23. The intelligent voice system of claim 20, wherein the second alias of the second projector is selected from a plurality of predetermined aliases provided by the management server in a registration process of the second projector.
24. An intelligent voice system comprising: a first voice assistant; a first projector; and a first cloud service server, connected to the first voice assistant and the first projector and configured to manage and control the first voice assistant and the first projector, wherein when the first voice assistant receives a first voice signal for controlling the first projector, the first voice assistant extracts a plurality of first keywords from the first voice signal and transmits the plurality of first keywords to the first cloud service server, wherein the plurality of first keywords comprises a first alias corresponding to the first projector and a first control command, wherein the first cloud service server comprises a first semantic analyzing program and the first cloud service server comprises a plurality of second control commands, the first cloud service server analyzes the first control command according to the first semantic analyzing program, acquires, retrieves, or generates the second control command corresponding to the first control command according to the first control command, accesses the first projector in response to the first alias, and adjusts the first projector as a first operating state according to the second control command corresponding to the first control command.
25. A method for controlling a projector adapted for the intelligent voice system of claim 1, the method comprising: extracting, by the first voice assistant, a plurality of first keywords from the first voice signal and transmitting the plurality of first keywords to the first cloud service platform when the first voice assistant receives a first voice signal for controlling the first projector, wherein the plurality of first keywords comprises a first alias corresponding to the first projector and a first control command, wherein the first cloud service platform comprises a first semantic analyzing program and the first cloud service platform comprises a plurality of second control commands; analyzing, by the first cloud service platform, the first control command according to the first semantic analyzing program, acquiring, retrieving, or generating the corresponding second control command according to the first control command, and transmitting the first alias of the first projector and the corresponding second control command to the management server; and accessing, by the management server, the first projector in response to the first alias and adjusting the first projector as a first operating state according to the second control command corresponding to the first control command.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the first projector is registered on the management server in advance based on the first alias and unique identification information of the first projector.
27. The method of claim 25, wherein the first alias of the first projector is selected from a plurality of predetermined aliases provided by the management server in a registration process of the first projector.
28. The method of claim 25, wherein after the first projector is adjusted as the first operating state, the method further comprises: reporting, by the first projector, the first operating state to the management server; forwarding, by the management server, the first operating state to the first cloud service platform; and generating, by the first cloud service platform, a first response sentence according to the first operating state and sending the first response sentence to the first voice assistant such that the first voice assistant outputs the first response sentence.
29. The method of claim 25, wherein the second control commands are pre-established in the first cloud service platform or generated through artificial intelligence or machine learning.
30. The method of claim 25, wherein the first semantic analyzing program comprises a first lookup table, and the second control commands are established in the first lookup table.
31. The method of claim 25, wherein the first semantic analyzing program comprises information corresponding to the plurality of second control commands.
32. The method of claim 25, wherein the first cloud service platform comprises a database, and the second control commands are stored in the database, wherein the database comprises a first lookup table, and the second control commands are established in the first lookup table.
33. The method of claim 25, wherein the step of adjusting the first projector as the first operating state comprises turning on the first projector.
34. The method of claim 25, wherein the step of adjusting the first projector as the first operating state comprises starting a menu of on screen display of the first projector.
35. The method of claim 25, wherein the step of adjusting the first projector as the first operating state comprises adjusting a projection brightness of the first projector.
36. The method of claim 25, further comprising: generating, by the management server, a corresponding third control command according to the second control command corresponding to the first control command and transmitting the third control command to a controller of the first projector; and receiving, by the controller of the first projector, the third control command and adjusting the first operating state of the first projector according to the third control command.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein the controller of the first projector comprises a first program, and the controller of the first projector receives the third control command, acquires a fourth control command according to the first program, and adjusts the first operating state of the first projector according to the fourth control command, wherein the fourth control command comprises a digital signal.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein the first program of the first projector comprises a second lookup table, and the second lookup table comprises pre-established fifth control commands and the corresponding fourth control commands, wherein the fifth control commands are identical to the third control commands.
39. The method of claim 36, wherein the first projector comprises at least one electronic component, and the third control command comprises information of the at least one electronic component and a signal for controlling the at least one electronic component, wherein the at least one electronic component comprises at least one of a fan, a light source driver, and a speaker, the information of the at least one electronic component comprises an identification code of the at least one electronic component, and the signal for controlling the at least one electronic component comprises a voltage or a current.
40. The method of claim 25, wherein the intelligent voice system further comprises a second voice assistant and a second cloud service platform, wherein the second cloud service platform is connected to the second voice assistant and the management server and manages the second voice assistant, the method further comprising: extracting, by the second voice assistant, a plurality of second keywords from the second voice signal and transmitting the plurality of second keywords to the second cloud service platform when the second voice assistant receives a second voice signal for controlling the first projector, wherein the plurality of second keywords comprises the first alias corresponding to the first projector and a sixth control command, wherein the second cloud service platform comprises a second semantic analyzing program and the second cloud service platform comprises a plurality of seventh control commands; analyzing, by the second cloud service platform, the sixth control command according to the second semantic analyzing program, acquiring the corresponding seventh control command according to the sixth control command, and transmitting the first alias of the first projector and the seventh control command corresponding to the sixth control command to the management server; and accessing, by the management server, the first projector in response to the first alias and adjusting the first projector as a second operating state according to the seventh control command corresponding to the sixth control command.
41. The method of claim 40, wherein a language of the first voice signal is different from a language of the second voice signal, the method further comprising: when the first voice assistant receives the second voice signal and the first semantic analyzing program cannot recognize the second voice signal, outputting, by the first voice assistant, a response sentence of recognition failure; and when the second voice assistant receives the first voice signal and the second semantic analyzing program cannot recognize the first voice signal, outputting, by the second voice assistant, a response sentence of recognition failure.
42. The method of claim 40, wherein a language of the first voice signal is the same as a language of the second voice signal, the method further comprising: when the first voice assistant receives the second voice signal for controlling the first projector, extracting, by the first voice assistant, the plurality of second keywords from the second voice signal and transmitting the plurality of second keywords to the first cloud service platform, wherein the plurality of second keywords comprises the first alias corresponding to the first projector and the sixth control command; analyzing, by the first cloud service platform, the sixth control command according to the first semantic analyzing program, acquiring an eighth control command according to the sixth control command, and transmitting the first alias of the first projector and the eighth control command to the management server; and accessing, by the management server, the first projector in response to the first alias and adjusting the first projector again as the second operating state according to the eighth control command corresponding to the sixth control command.
43. The method of claim 42, wherein the eighth control command is one of the plurality of second control commands.
44. The method of claim 25, wherein the intelligent voice system further comprises a second projector connected to and controlled by the management server, the method further comprising: when the first voice assistant receives a third voice signal for controlling the second projector, extracting, by the first voice assistant, a plurality of third keywords from the third voice signal and transmitting the plurality of third keywords to the first cloud service platform, wherein the plurality of third keywords comprises a second alias corresponding to the second projector and a ninth control command; analyzing, by the first cloud service platform, the ninth control command according to the first semantic analyzing program, acquiring a tenth control command according to the ninth control command, and transmitting the second alias of the second projector and the tenth control command corresponding to the ninth control command to the management server; and accessing, by the management server, the second projector in response to the second alias and adjusting the second projector as a third operating state according to the tenth control command corresponding to the ninth control command.
45. The method of claim 44, wherein the tenth control command is one of the plurality of second control commands.
46. The method of claim 44, wherein the second projector is registered on the management server in advance based on the second alias and unique identification information of the second projector.
47. The method of claim 44, wherein the second alias of the second projector is selected from a plurality of predetermined aliases provided by the management server in a registration process of the second projector.
48. An intelligent voice system comprising: a first projector comprising a first voice assistant; and a first cloud service server, connected to the first voice assistant and the first projector and configured to manage and control the first voice assistant and the first projector, wherein when the first voice assistant receives a first voice signal for controlling the first projector, the first voice assistant extracts a plurality of first keywords from the first voice signal and transmits the plurality of first keywords to the first cloud service server, wherein the plurality of first keywords comprises a first alias corresponding to the first projector and a first control command, wherein the first cloud service server comprises a first semantic analyzing program and the first cloud service server comprises a plurality of second control commands, the first cloud service server analyzes the first control command according to the first semantic analyzing program, acquires, retrieves, or generates the second control command corresponding to the first control command according to the first control command, accesses the first projector in response to the first alias, and adjusts the first projector as a first operating state according to the second control command corresponding to the first control command.
</claims>
</document>
