<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<assignee>
WIPRO
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUCHHAL, MANU
DSOUZA, CYRUS ANDRE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69945978
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR RETRIEVING ONE OR MORE DOCUMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure relates generally to an information retrieval technology and more particularly to a creation of a taxonomy to facilitate subsequent search and retrieval of information. In one embodiment, an information retrieval device is disclosed, that comprises a processor and a memory that stores instructions, which, on execution, causes the processor to receive an input corpus. Thereafter, input document clusters are generated from top input n-grams associated with the input corpus. Further, top-ranked input n-grams are determined from the top input n-grams. Thereafter, an external corpus is identified based on the top-ranked input n-grams. An enriched corpus (external and input corpus), is clustered based on top enriched n-grams associated with the enriched corpus to generate enriched document clusters. Further, for each n-gram of the enriched corpus, corresponding n-gram clusters are determined. Finally, creates a taxonomy based on the input document clusters, the enriched document clusters, the n-gram clusters and the top-ranked input n-grams.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of retrieving one or more documents, the method comprising: receiving, by an information retrieval device, an input corpus, wherein the input corpus comprises one or more input documents; determining, by the information retrieval device, one or more top input n-grams associated with the input corpus, wherein the one or more top input n-grams are used to generate one or more input document clusters; determining, by the information retrieval device, one or more top-ranked input n-grams from the one or more top input n-grams, wherein the one or more top-ranked input n-grams are determined based on relatedness of a top input n-gram with each top input n-gram; identifying, by the information retrieval device, an external corpus based on the one or more top-ranked input n-grams; merging, by the information retrieval device, the external corpus with the input corpus to generate an enriched corpus; clustering, by the information retrieval device, the enriched corpus based on one or more top enriched n-grams associated with the enriched corpus to generate one or more enriched document clusters; determining, by the information retrieval device, one or more n-gram clusters corresponding to each n-gram of the enriched corpus, wherein each of the one or more n-gram clusters comprises semantically related n-grams corresponding to each n-gram of the enriched corpus; creating, by the information retrieval device, a taxonomy based on the one or more input document clusters, the one or more enriched document clusters, the one or more n-gram clusters and the one or more top-ranked input n-grams; and retrieving, by the information retrieval device, one or more documents from the enriched corpus based on the taxonomy.
2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the one or more top input n-grams, the one or more top enriched n-grams and the one or more top-ranked input n-grams comprises at least one of a word, a phrase, or a multiword.
3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more top input n-grams and the one or more top enriched n-grams is determined based on term frequency-inverse document frequency (tf-idf) scores.
4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the relatedness of a top input n-gram with each top input n-gram comprises a number of top input n-grams related to the top input n-gram.
5. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the identifying the external corpus comprises retrieving one or more external documents by querying one or more external databases with the one or more top-ranked input n-grams.
6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the one or more enriched document clusters are generated by: determining the one or more top enriched n-grams associated with the enriched corpus; and clustering the enriched corpus based on the one or more top enriched n-grams.
7. The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the one or more top enriched n-grams associated with the enriched corpus is used to create a domain dictionary.
8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the taxonomy defines at least one relationship between the one or more input document clusters, the one or more enriched document clusters, the one or more n-gram clusters and the top-ranked input n-grams.
9. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the at least one relationship comprises at least one of semantic relationship, contextual relationship or co-occurring relationship.
10. An information retrieval device for retrieving one or more documents, the information retrieval device comprising: a processor; a memory communicatively coupled to the processor, wherein the memory stores the processor-executable instructions, which, on execution, causes the processor to: receive an input corpus, wherein the input corpus comprises one or more input documents; determine one or more top input n-grams associated with the input corpus, wherein the one or more top input n-grams are used to generate one or more input document clusters; determine one or more top-ranked input n-grams from the one or more top input n-grams, wherein the one or more top-ranked input n-grams are determined based on relatedness of a top input n-gram with each top input n-gram; identify an external corpus based on the one or more top-ranked input n-grams; merge the external corpus with the input corpus to generate an enriched corpus; cluster the enriched corpus based on one or more top enriched n-grams associated with the enriched corpus to generate one or more enriched document clusters; determine one or more n-gram clusters corresponding to each n-gram of the enriched corpus, wherein each of the one or more n-gram clusters comprises semantically related n-grams corresponding to each n-gram of the enriched corpus; create a taxonomy based on the one or more input document clusters, the one or more enriched document clusters, the one or more n-gram clusters and the one or more top-ranked input n-grams; and retrieve one or more documents from the enriched corpus based on the taxonomy.
11. The information retrieval device as claimed in claim 10, wherein the one or more top input n-grams, the one or more top enriched n-grams, the one or more top-ranked input n-grams comprises at least one of a word, a phrase, or a multiword.
12. The information retrieval device as claimed in claim 10, wherein at least one of the one or more top input n-grams and the one or more top enriched n-grams is determined based on term frequency-inverse document frequency (tf-idf) scores.
13. The information retrieval device as claimed in claim 10, wherein the relatedness of a top input n-gram with each top input n-gram comprises a number of top input n-grams related to the top input n-gram.
14. The information retrieval device as claimed in claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to identify the external corpus by retrieving one or more external documents by querying one or more external databases with the one or more top-ranked input n-grams.
15. The information retrieval device as claimed in claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to generate the one or more enriched document clusters by: determining the one or more top enriched n-grams associated with the enriched corpus; and clustering the enriched corpus based on the one or more top enriched n-grams.
16. The information retrieval device as claimed in claim 15, wherein the one or more top enriched n-grams associated with the enriched corpus is used to create a domain dictionary.
17. The information retrieval device as claimed in claim 10, wherein the taxonomy defines at least one relationship between the one or more input document clusters, the one or more enriched document clusters, the one or more n-gram clusters and the one or more top-ranked input n-grams.
18. The information retrieval device as claimed in claim 17, wherein the at least one relationship comprises at least one of semantic relationship, contextual relationship or co-occurring relationship.
19. A non-transitory computer readable medium including instruction stored thereon that when processed by at least one processor cause a system to perform operations comprising: receiving an input corpus, wherein the input corpus comprises one or more input documents; determining one or more top input n-grams associated with the input corpus, wherein the one or more top input n-grams are used to generate one or more input document clusters; determining one or more top-ranked input n-grams from the one or more top input n-grams, wherein the one or more top-ranked input n-grams are determined based on relatedness of a top input n-gram with each top input n-gram; identifying an external corpus based on the one or more top-ranked input n-grams; merging the external corpus with the input corpus to generate an enriched corpus; clustering the enriched corpus based on one or more top enriched n-grams associated with the enriched corpus to generate one or more enriched document clusters; determining one or more n-gram clusters corresponding to each n-gram of the enriched corpus, wherein each of the one or more n-gram clusters comprises semantically related n-grams corresponding to each n-gram of the enriched corpus; creating a taxonomy based on the one or more input document clusters, the one or more enriched document clusters, the one or more n-gram clusters and the one or more top-ranked input n-grams; and retrieving one or more documents from the enriched corpus based on the taxonomy.
</claims>
</document>
