<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B8/00,A61B8/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BUTTERFLY NETWORK
SILBERMAN, NATHAN
</assignee>

<inventors>
SILBERMAN, NATHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69406971
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND APPARATUSES FOR DETERMINING AND DISPLAYING LOCATIONS ON IMAGES OF BODY PORTIONS BASED ON ULTRASOUND DATA
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the technology described herein relate to displaying locations on images of body portions. Based on ultrasound data collected from a subject by an ultrasound device, a first location on an image of a body portion may be determined. The first location on the image of the body portion may correspond to a current location of the ultrasound device relative to a subject where the ultrasound device collected the ultrasound data. A first marker may be displayed on the image of the body portion at the first location. A second location on the image of the body portion may be determined, where the second location on the image of the body portion corresponds to a target location of the ultrasound device relative to the body portion of the subject. A second marker on the image of the body portion at the second location may be displayed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising a processing device in operative communication with an ultrasound device, the processing device configured to: determine, based on first ultrasound data collected from a body portion of a subject by the ultrasound device, a first location on an image of a body portion, wherein the first location on the image of the body portion corresponds to a current location of the ultrasound device relative to the body portion of the subject where the ultrasound device collected the first ultrasound data; and display a first marker on the image of the body portion at the first location.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing device is configured, when displaying the first marker on the image of the body portion, to display the first marker on a display screen of the processing device.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further configured to receive the first ultrasound data from the ultrasound device.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the processing device is further configured to update the first location of the first marker as further ultrasound data is received at the processing device from the ultrasound device.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further configured to: determine a second location on the image of the body portion, wherein the second location relative to the image of the body portion corresponds to a target location of the ultrasound device relative to the body portion of the subject; and display a second marker on the image of the body portion at the second location.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the processing device is configured, when determining the second location, to receive a selection of the second location on the image of the body portion.
7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the processing device is configured, when displaying the second marker, to display the second location on a display screen of the processing device.
8. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the processing device is further configured to receive a selection of an anatomical view associated with the target location.
9. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the processing device is further configured to provide an instruction for moving the ultrasound device from the current location to the target location.
10. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the processing device is further configured to provide an indication that the current location is substantially equal to the target location.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further configured to: determine, based on second ultrasound data collected from the body portion of the subject by the ultrasound device at a past time, a second location on the image of the body portion, wherein the second location on the image of the body portion corresponds to a past location of the ultrasound device relative to the body portion of the subject where the ultrasound device collected the second ultrasound data; and display a path on the image of the body portion that includes the first location and the second location.
12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the body portion comprises a torso.
13. An apparatus, comprising processing circuitry configured to: receive a selection of a location on an image of a body portion; and automatically retrieve ultrasound data that was collected by an ultrasound device at a location relative to a subject corresponding to the selected location.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: display, on the image of the body portion, one or more markers at a plurality of locations on the image of the body portion.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to: determine the plurality of locations on the image of the body portion, wherein each respective location of the plurality of locations corresponds to a location relative to the body portion of a subject where an ultrasound device collected a respective set of ultrasound data of a plurality of sets of ultrasound data.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to receive a selection of the plurality of sets of ultrasound data.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the plurality of sets of ultrasound data comprise: a set of ultrasound data containing an anatomical view of a proximal abdominal aorta; a set of ultrasound data containing an anatomical view of a mid abdominal aorta; and a set of ultrasound data containing an anatomical view of a distal abdominal aorta.
18. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the processing circuitry is configured, when displaying the one or more markers at the plurality of locations, to display a plurality of discrete markers at each of the plurality of locations.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the processing circuitry is configured, when receiving the selection of the location on the image of the body portion, to receive a selection of a marker of the plurality of discrete markers.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the processing circuitry is configured, when retrieving the ultrasound data corresponding to the selected location, to retrieve ultrasound data that was collected at a location relative to the subject corresponding to a location of the selected marker on the image of the body portion.
21. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the processing circuitry is configured, when displaying the one or more markers at the plurality of locations, to display a path along the plurality of locations.
22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the processing circuitry is configured, when receiving the selection of the location on the image of the body portion, to receive a selection of a location along the path.
23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the processing circuitry is configured, when retrieving the ultrasound data corresponding to the selected location, to retrieve ultrasound data that was collected at a location relative to the subject corresponding to the selected location along the path.
24. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the path extends along an abdominal aorta of the body portion in the image.
25. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the body portion comprises a torso.
26. An apparatus, comprising processing circuitry configured to: receive a selection of ultrasound data; determine a location on an image of a body portion corresponding to a location relative to the body portion of a subject where an ultrasound device collected the ultrasound data; and display, on the image of the body portion, a marker at the determined location.
</claims>
</document>
