<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/169,G06F40/20,G06F40/205,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LIVEPERSON
</assignee>

<inventors>
ONU, LAURA
DUNN, MATTHEW
Bradley, Joe
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71515180
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for communication system intent analysis
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates generally to systems and methods for analyzing intent. Intents may be analyzed to determine to which device or agent to route a communication. The analyzed intent information can also be used to formulate reports and analyze the accuracy of the identified intents with respect to the received communication.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving a communication, wherein the communication includes one or more words, and wherein a device that generated the communication is associated with an action; automatically parsing the communication to identify one or more operative words that correspond to the action associated with the device; determining an intent value associated with the one or more operative words, wherein the intent value is associated with the action; facilitating annotation of the intent value, wherein annotation defines a quality of an association between the communication and the intent value, and wherein the annotation and the quality indicate a strength of the association between the communication and the intent value; calculating a metric for the intent value based on the quality of the association, wherein the metric is calculated using a plurality of communications associated with the intent value and one or more human agent profiles, and wherein a human agent profile is associated with a human agent; matching the communication with a terminal device associated with the human agent profile, wherein matching is based on the metric; and facilitating an interaction with the human agent associated with the human agent profile.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the communication is in natural language.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more operative words are identified by comparing the one or more operative words to one or more known operative words in a database.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the intent value associated with the one or more operative words is identified through stored associations in a database.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: retrieving the one or more human agent profiles based on the intent value and the metric, wherein the one or more human agent profiles have an association for an agent and a corresponding terminal device for an individual human agent profile.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising selecting a selected human agent profile of the one or more human agent profiles, wherein the selected human agent profile is selected based on a correlation of the selected human agent profile to the intent value and the annotation.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising routing the communication.
8. A computer-program product tangibly embodied in a non-transitory machine-readable storage medium, including instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations including: receiving a communication wherein the communication includes one or more words, and wherein a device that generated the communication is associated with an action; automatically parsing the communication to identify one or more operative words that correspond to the action associated with the device; determining an intent value associated with the one or more operative words, wherein the intent value is associated with the action; facilitating annotation of the intent value, wherein annotation defines a quality of an association between the communication and the intent value, and wherein the annotation and the quality indicate a strength of the association between the communication and the intent value; calculating a metric for the intent value based on the quality of the association, wherein the metric is calculated using a plurality of communications associated with the intent value and one or more human agent profiles, and wherein a human agent profile is associated with a human agent; matching the communication with a terminal device associated with the human agent profile, wherein matching is based on the metric; and facilitating an interaction with the human agent associated with the human agent profile.
9. The computer-program product of claim 8, wherein the communication is in natural language.
10. The computer-program product of claim 8, wherein the one or more operative words are identified by comparing the one or more operative words to one or more known operative words in a database.
11. The computer-program product of claim 8, wherein the intent value associated with the one or more operative words is identified through stored associations in a database.
12. The computer-program product of claim 8, wherein the operations further include: retrieving the one or more human agent profiles based on the intent value and the metric, wherein the one or more human agent profiles have an association for an agent and a corresponding terminal device for an individual human agent profile.
13. The computer-program product of claim 8, wherein the operations further include: selecting a selected human agent profile of the one or more human agent profiles, wherein the selected human agent profile is selected based on a correlation of the selected human agent profile to the intent value and the annotation.
14. The computer-program product of claim 8, wherein the operations further include: routing the communication.
15. A system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory machine-readable storage media containing instructions that, when executed on the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations including: receiving a communication wherein the communication includes one or more words, and wherein a device that generated the communication is associated with an action; automatically parsing the communication to identify one or more operative words that correspond to the action associated with the device; determining an intent value associated with the one or more operative words, wherein the intent value is associated with the action; facilitating annotation of the intent value, wherein annotation defines a quality of an association between the communication and the intent value, and wherein the annotation and the quality indicate a strength of the association between the communication and the intent value; calculating a metric for the intent value based on the quality of the association, wherein the metric is calculated using a plurality of communications associated with the intent value and one or more human agent profiles, and wherein a human agent profile is associated with a human agent; matching the communication with a terminal device associated with the human agent profile, wherein matching is based on the metric; and facilitating an interaction with the human agent associated with the human agent profile.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the communication is in natural language.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more operative words are identified by comparing the one or more operative words to one or more known operative words in a database.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the intent value associated with the one or more operative words is identified through stored associations in a database.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the operations further include: retrieving the one or more human agent profiles based on the intent value and the metric, wherein the one or more human agent profiles have an association for an agent and a corresponding terminal device for an individual human agent profile.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the operations further include: selecting a selected human agent profile of the one or more human agent profiles, wherein the selected human agent profile is selected based on a correlation of the selected human agent profile to the intent value and the annotation.
</claims>
</document>
