<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64C39/02,B64D43/02,G06K9/62,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
TAN WEI
HU, HUAN
CHEN, QIANWEN
ZHOU, WANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70550569
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING BASED AIRFLOW SENSING FOR AIRCRAFT
</title>

<abstract>
Using a set of airflow sensors disposed on an airfoil of an aircraft, first airflow data including an amount of airflow experienced at each airflow sensor at a first time is measured. Using a trained neural network model, the first airflow data is analyzed to determine an airflow state of the aircraft. In response to determining that the aircraft is in the abnormal airflow state, a control surface and a power unit of the aircraft are adjusted. Responsive to the adjusting, the aircraft is returned to the normal airflow state.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: measuring, using a set of airflow sensors disposed on an airfoil of an aircraft, first airflow data comprising an amount of airflow experienced at each airflow sensor at a first time; analyzing, using a trained neural network model, the first airflow data to determine an airflow state of the aircraft; adjusting, in response to determining that the aircraft is in the abnormal airflow state, at least one member from a set comprising (i) a control surface and (ii) a power unit of the aircraft; and returning, responsive to the adjusting, the aircraft to the normal airflow state.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the abnormal airflow state comprises a stalled state.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the aircraft comprises a rotary aircraft and the abnormal airflow state comprises a vortex ring state.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the aircraft comprises a rotary aircraft and the abnormal airflow state comprises a blade stall state.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the abnormal airflow state comprises a disrupted airflow state.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: measuring, using the set of airflow sensors, second airflow data comprising an amount of airflow experienced at each airflow sensor at a second time, the second time being earlier than the first time; and training, using training data associating the second airflow data of each airflow sensor with one of (i) a normal airflow state and (ii) an abnormal airflow state, a neural network model.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: measuring second control input data of the aircraft at the second time, the second control input data comprising a position of a control surface of the aircraft; measuring second energy consumption data of the aircraft at the second time; training, by correlating the second airflow data, the second control input data, and the second energy consumption data, a second neural network model; measuring first control input data of the aircraft at the first time; and predicting, using the trained second neural network model, the first airflow data and the first control input data, an energy consumption rate of the aircraft.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: training, by correlating the second airflow data, the second control input data, and the second energy consumption data, a third model; measuring, at the first time, an attitude of the aircraft; analyzing, using the trained third model, the first airflow data, the first control input data, the predicted energy consumption rate, and the attitude to determine an optimal energy consumption rate; adjusting, in response to determining that the predicted energy consumption rate is greater than the optimal energy consumption rate, a control surface of the aircraft, the adjusting causing a control surface setting matching a control surface setting associated with the optimal energy consumption rate; adjusting, in response to determining that the predicted energy consumption rate is greater than the optimal energy consumption rate, a power unit of the aircraft, the adjusting causing a power unit setting matching a power unit setting associated with the optimal energy consumption rate.
9. A computer usable program product comprising one or more computer-readable storage devices, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, the stored program instructions comprising: program instructions to measure, using a set of airflow sensors disposed on an airfoil of an aircraft, first airflow data comprising an amount of airflow experienced at each airflow sensor at a first time; program instructions to analyze, using a trained neural network model, the first airflow data to determine an airflow state of the aircraft; program instructions to adjust, in response to determining that the aircraft is in the abnormal airflow state, at least one member from a set comprising (i) a control surface and (ii) a power unit of the aircraft; and program instructions to return, responsive to the adjusting, the aircraft to the normal airflow state.
10. The computer usable program product of claim 9, wherein the abnormal airflow state comprises a stalled state.
11. The computer usable program product of claim 9, wherein the aircraft comprises a rotary aircraft and the abnormal airflow state comprises a vortex ring state.
12. The computer usable program product of claim 9, wherein the aircraft comprises a rotary aircraft and the abnormal airflow state comprises a blade stall state.
13. The computer usable program product of claim 9, wherein the abnormal airflow state comprises a disrupted airflow state.
14. The computer usable program product of claim 9, further comprising: program instructions to measure, using the set of airflow sensors, second airflow data comprising an amount of airflow experienced at each airflow sensor at a second time, the second time being earlier than the first time; and program instructions to train, using training data associating the second airflow data of each airflow sensor with one of (i) a normal airflow state and (ii) an abnormal airflow state, a neural network model.
15. The computer usable program product of claim 14, further comprising: program instructions to measure second control input data of the aircraft at the second time, the second control input data comprising a position of a control surface of the aircraft; program instructions to measure second energy consumption data of the aircraft at the second time; program instructions to train, by correlating the second airflow data, the second control input data, and the second energy consumption data, a second neural network model; program instructions to measure first control input data of the aircraft at the first time; and program instructions to predict, using the trained second neural network model, using the trained second neural network model, the first airflow data and the first control input data, an energy consumption rate of the aircraft.
16. The computer usable program product of claim 15, further comprising: program instructions to train, by correlating the second airflow data, the second control input data, and the second energy consumption data, a third model; program instructions to measure, at the first time, an attitude of the aircraft; program instructions to analyze, using the trained third model, the first airflow data, the first control input data, the predicted energy consumption rate, and the attitude to determine an optimal energy consumption rate; program instructions to adjust, in response to determining that the predicted energy consumption rate is greater than the optimal energy consumption rate, a control surface of the aircraft, the adjusting causing a control surface setting matching a control surface setting associated with the optimal energy consumption rate; and program instructions to adjust, in response to determining that the predicted energy consumption rate is greater than the optimal energy consumption rate, a power unit of the aircraft, the adjusting causing a power unit setting matching a power unit setting associated with the optimal energy consumption rate.
17. The computer usable program product of claim 9, wherein the computer usable code is stored in a computer readable storage device in a data processing system, and wherein the computer usable code is transferred over a network from a remote data processing system.
18. The computer usable program product of claim 9, wherein the computer usable code is stored in a computer readable storage device in a server data processing system, and wherein the computer usable code is downloaded over a network to a remote data processing system for use in a computer readable storage device associated with the remote data processing system.
19. An apparatus comprising: an airflow sensor disposed on an airfoil of an aircraft, the airflow sensor configured to measure airflow data comprising an amount of airflow experienced at the airflow sensor at a first time; a hardware computing element in the aircraft, the hardware computing element comprising a processor, a computer-readable memory, and a computer-readable storage device configured to execute a trained neural network model in the aircraft, wherein the trained neural network model is trained to determine an airflow state of the aircraft from the airflow data; and at least one member from a set comprising (i) an adjustable control surface of the aircraft coupled with the hardware computing element, and (ii) an adjustable power unit of the aircraft coupled with the hardware computing element.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising: an actuator, the actuator adjusting the at least one member from the set comprising the adjustable control surface and the adjustable power unit of the aircraft, the actuator causing the aircraft to return to the normal airflow state responsive to the adjusting.
</claims>
</document>
