<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADVANCED NEW TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DERAKHSHANI, REZA R.
Li, Zhu
Mohammad, Ahmad Saeed
Nguyen, Duc Huy Hoang
Puttagunta, Raghunath Sai
Rattani, Ajita
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69771090
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Authentication verification using soft biometric traits
</title>

<abstract>
The technology described in this document can be embodied in a method for verifying an authenticated state of a device. In one aspect, the method includes capturing, during a primary authentication process, first auxiliary user identifying information for short-term authentication verification of the subject. The first auxiliary user identifying information includes first eyebrow biometric information for the subject and first eyeglass frame information for the subject. A short-term authentication verification process is performed to verify identify of the subject. In response to determining that a match score that indicates a degree of match between the first auxiliary user identifying information and captured second auxiliary user identifying information meets or exceeds a predetermined threshold, an authenticated state for the subject is verified. In response to determining that the match score does not meet or exceed the predetermined threshold, the authenticated state for the subject is ended.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for verifying an authenticated state of a device, the method comprising: capturing, during a primary authentication process in which primary user identifying information is obtained for a subject using a device, first auxiliary user identifying information for short-term authentication verification of the subject, wherein the first auxiliary user identifying information comprises first eyebrow biometric information for the subject and first eyeglass frame information for the subject; determining, after the primary authentication process, to perform a short-term authentication verification process to verify identify of the subject; and performing the short-term authentication verification process, including: capturing second auxiliary user identifying information for the subject, including second eyebrow biometric information for the subject and second eyeglass frame information for the subject; comparing the first auxiliary user identifying information to the second auxiliary user identifying information including determining a match score that indicates a degree of match between the first auxiliary user identifying information and the second auxiliary user identifying information; determining whether the match score meets or exceeds a predetermined threshold score; in response to determining that the match score meets or exceeds the predetermined threshold score, verifying an authenticated state for the subject in which continued use of the device is allowed; and in response to determining that the match score does not meet or exceed the predetermined threshold score, ending the authenticated state for the subject including disabling use of the device by the subject.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising, in response to determining that the match score does not meet or exceed the predetermined threshold score, re-performing the primary authentication process.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining to perform the short-term authentication verification process comprises determining that a predetermined amount of time has occurred since completion of the primary authentication process.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising repeating the short-term authentication verification process at multiple subsequent time points.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the device is a kiosk device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the device is a mobile device.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the first auxiliary user identifying information and the second auxiliary user identifying information are obtained using a front-facing camera of the mobile device.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the first auxiliary user identifying information includes first clothing characteristics of the subject, the second auxiliary user identifying information includes second clothing characteristics of the subject, and comparing the first auxiliary user identifying information to the second auxiliary user identifying information includes comparing the first clothing characteristics to the second clothing characteristics.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the match score comprises a fusion score of two or more of an eyebrow match score, an eyeglasses frame match score, and a clothing characteristic match score.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the short-term authentication verification process is performed without prompting the subject for user input.
11. A system comprising: an image acquisition device configured to capture an image of a subject; and an image analysis engine comprising one or more processing devices, the image analysis engine configured to: capture, during a primary authentication process in which primary user identifying information is obtained for a subject using a device, first auxiliary user identifying information for short-term authentication verification of the subject, wherein the first auxiliary user identifying information comprises first eyebrow biometric information for the subject and first eyeglass frame information for the subject; determine, after the primary authentication process, to perform a short-term authentication verification process to verify identify of the subject; and perform the short-term authentication verification process, including: capturing second auxiliary user identifying information for the subject, including second eyebrow biometric information for the subject and second eyeglass frame information for the subject; comparing the first auxiliary user identifying information to the second auxiliary user identifying information including determining a match score that indicates a degree of match between the first auxiliary user identifying information and the second auxiliary user identifying information; determining whether the match score meets or exceeds a predetermined threshold score; in response to determining that the match score meets or exceeds the predetermined threshold score, verifying an authenticated state for the subject in which continued use of the device is allowed; and in response to determining that the match score does not meet or exceed the predetermined threshold score, end the authenticated state for the subject including disabling use of the device by the subject.
12. The system of claim 11, further comprising, in response to determining that the match score does not meet or exceed the predetermined threshold score, re-performing the primary authentication process.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein determining to perform the short-term authentication verification process comprises determining that a predetermined amount of time has occurred since completion of the primary authentication process.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the image analysis engine is configured to repeat the short-term authentication verification process at multiple subsequent time points.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the first auxiliary user identifying information includes first clothing characteristics of the subject, the second auxiliary user identifying information includes second clothing characteristics of the subject, and comparing the first auxiliary user identifying information to the second auxiliary user identifying information includes comparing the first clothing characteristics to the second clothing characteristics.
16. One or more machine-readable storage devices comprising machine-readable instructions configured to cause one or more processing devices to execute operations comprising: capturing, during a primary authentication process in which primary user identifying information is obtained for a subject using a device, first auxiliary user identifying information for short-term authentication verification of the subject, wherein the first auxiliary user identifying information comprises first eyebrow biometric information for the subject and first eyeglass frame information for the subject; determining, after the primary authentication process, to perform a short-term authentication verification process to verify identify of the subject; and performing the short-term authentication verification process, including: capturing second auxiliary user identifying information for the subject, including second eyebrow biometric information for the subject and second eyeglass frame information for the subject; comparing the first auxiliary user identifying information to the second auxiliary user identifying information including determining a match score that indicates a degree of match between the first auxiliary user identifying information and the second auxiliary user identifying information; determining whether the match score meets or exceeds a predetermined threshold score; in response to determining that the match score meets or exceeds the predetermined threshold score, verifying an authenticated state for the subject in which continued use of the device is allowed; and in response to determining that the match score does not meet or exceed the predetermined threshold score, ending the authenticated state for the subject including disabling use of the device by the subject.
17. The machine-readable storage devices of claim 16, the operations further comprising, in response to determining that the match score does not meet or exceed the predetermined threshold score, re-performing the primary authentication process.
18. The machine-readable storage devices of claim 16, wherein determining to perform the short-term authentication verification process comprises determining that a predetermined amount of time has occurred since completion of the primary authentication process.
19. The machine-readable storage devices of claim 18, wherein the image analysis engine is configured to repeat the short-term authentication verification process at multiple subsequent time points.
20. The machine-readable storage devices of claim 16, wherein the first auxiliary user identifying information includes first clothing characteristics of the subject, the second auxiliary user identifying information includes second clothing characteristics of the subject, and comparing the first auxiliary user identifying information to the second auxiliary user identifying information includes comparing the first clothing characteristics to the second clothing characteristics.
</claims>
</document>
