<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B34/00,A61B90/00,G02B27/01,G06F3/01,G06F3/03,G06T19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAGIC LEAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHMIDT, BRIAN LLOYD
HARRISES, CHRISTOPHER M.
SAMEC, NICOLE ELIZABETH
ROBAINA, NASTASJA U.
BAERENRODT, MARK
ABOVITZ, RONY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61016802
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGING MODIFICATION, DISPLAY AND VISUALIZATION USING AUGMENTED AND VIRTUAL REALITY EYEWEAR
</title>

<abstract>
A display system can include a head-mounted display configured to project light to an eye of a user to display augmented reality image content to the user. The display system can include one or more user sensors configured to sense the user and can include one or more environmental sensors configured to sense surroundings of the user. The display system can also include processing electronics in communication with the display, the one or more user sensors, and the one or more environmental sensors. The processing electronics can be configured to sense a situation involving user focus, determine user intent for the situation, and alter user perception of a real or virtual object within the vision field of the user based at least in part on the user intent and/or sensed situation involving user focus. The processing electronics can be configured to at least one of enhance or de-emphasize the user perception of the real or virtual object within the vision field of the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A head-mounted display system configured to project light to an eye of a user to display augmented reality image content in a vision field of said user, said head-mounted display system comprising: a frame configured to be supported on a head of the user; a head-mounted display disposed on the frame, said display configured to project light into said user's eye to display augmented reality image content to the user's vision field at different amounts of divergences as if projected from different distances from the user's eye, at least a portion of said display being transparent and disposed at a location in front of the user's eye when the user wears said head-mounted display device such that said transparent portion transmits light from a portion of the environment in front of the user and said head-mounted display to the user's eye to provide a view of said portion of the environment in front of the user and said head-mounted display; one or more user sensors configured to sense the user; one or more environmental sensors configured to sense surroundings of the user; processing electronics in communication with the display, the one or more user sensors, and the one or more environmental sensors, the processing electronics configured to: sense a situation involving increased user focus; and alter user perception of a real or virtual object within the vision field of the user based at least in part on sensing the increased focus.
2. The display system of claim 1, wherein the processing electronics are configured to alter the user perception of the real or virtual object within the vision field of the user by altering image content comprising the object.
3. The display system of claim 2, wherein altering image content comprises moving image content of the object from a first location to a second location.
4. The display system of claim 3, wherein the first location is the peripheral region and the second location is the central region or wherein the first location is the central region and the second location is the peripheral region.
5. The display system of claim 2, wherein altering image content comprises altering at least one of contrast, opacity, color, color saturation, color balance, size, background, brightness, edges, or sharpness of image content comprising the object.
6. The display system of any of claims 1-7, wherein the one or more environmental sensors comprise a depth sensor, a pair of binocular world cameras, a geolocation sensor, a proximity sensor, or a GPS.
7. The display system of any of claims 1-6, wherein the one or more user sensors comprise one or more cameras.
8. The display system of any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the processing electronics is further configured to determine the user intent for the situation and alter the user perception of the real or virtual object within the vision field of the user based at least in part on sensing the increased focus.
9. The display system of any of claims 1-8, wherein said situation involving increased user focus comprises driving a motor vehicle.
10. The display system of claim 9, wherein said environmental sensor comprises a sensor configured to detect a radio signal.
11. The display system of claim 10, wherein said environmental sensor comprises a sensor configured to detect a blue tooth signal from an automobile.
12. The display system of claim 9, wherein said processing electronics are configured to alter user perception of said real or virtual object within the vision field of the user based at least in part on one or more data records regarding the user, said one or more data records comprising a driving record of said user.
13. A head-mounted display system configured to project light to an eye of a user to display augmented reality image content, said user's eye having a vision field having a central region and a peripheral region disposed about said central region, said head-mounted display system comprising: a frame configured to be supported on a head of the user; a head-mounted display disposed on the frame, said display configured to project light into said user's eye so as to present image content at said central region of said user's vision field, at least a portion of said display being transparent and disposed at a location in front of the user's eye when the user wears said head-mounted display device such that said transparent portion transmits light from a portion of the environment in front of the user and said head-mounted display to the user's eye to provide a view of said portion of the environment in front of the user and said head-mounted display; processing electronics in communication with said display to control presentation of image content on said display, wherein said head-mounted display system is configured to present image content to said central region of the user's vision field that is enhanced in comparison to image content presented to the peripheral region of the user's vision field.
14. The system of claim 10, further comprising one or more sensors configured to monitor the environment.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein said one or more sensors comprise one or more outward-facing image capture devices configured to image said environment.
16. The system of claim 11 or 12, wherein one or more sensors comprise a distance measuring device.
17. The system of any of claims 10-13, further comprising an eye tracking device configured to track position and/or movement of said user's eye.
18. The system of any of claims 10-15, wherein the head-mounted display device is configured to process image content presented to at least a portion of said central region of the user's vision field differently in comparison to image content presented to the peripheral region of the user's vision field.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the head-mounted display device is configured to process image content differently by magnifying image content presented to at least a portion of said central region of the user's vision field in comparison to image content presented to the peripheral region of the user's vision field.
20. The system of claim 16 or 17, wherein the head-mounted display device is configured to process image content differently by increasing brightness in image content presented to at least a portion of said central region of the user's vision field in comparison to image content presented to the peripheral region of the user's vision field.
</claims>
</document>
