<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W40/076,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
XU CHENG
LIU SU
WU, SHUN XIAN
Guo, Yin Xi
Chou, Kuo-Liang
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72662884
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FORDING DEPTH ESTIMATION
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for fording depth estimation based on a real-time image recognition is provided according an embodiment of the present disclosure. In the method, a first image of a low-lying road being submerged under a bridge can be acquired. At least one second image of the low-lying road without being submerged can be determined. A fording depth of the low-lying road can be estimated based on the first image and the at least one second image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: acquiring, by one or more processors, a first image of a low-lying road being submerged under a bridge; determining, by one or more processors, at least one second image of the low-lying road without being submerged: estimating, by one or more processors, a fording depth of the low-lying road based on the first image and the at least one second image.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the estimating a fording depth of the low-lying road based on the first image and the at least one second image comprises: scaling, by one or more processors, at least one of the first image and the at least one second image to a same scale size; determining, by one or more processors, a clearance height of the bridge and a first length which is a vertical distance between a low edge of the bridge and a water line of the low-lying road based on the first image; determining, by one or more processors, a second length which is a vertical distance between the low edge of the bridge and a ground line of the low-lying road based on the at least one second image; and estimating, by one or more processors, the fording depth of the low-lying road based on the clearance height of the bridge, the first length and the second length.
3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: generating, by one or more processors, a third image which is the first image superimposed with an indication of the fording depth.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first image is collected by an imaging device arranged on a vehicle.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the determining at least one second image of the low-lying road without being submerged comprises: determining, by one or more processors, a location of the vehicle; determining, by one or more processors, the at least one second image from an image repository based on the location of the vehicle.
6. The method according to claim 4, further comprising: determining, by one or more processors, at least one submerged area of the low-lying road based on the fording depth of the low-lying road and vehicle information; and generating, by one or more processors, a fourth image which is the first image superimposed with at least one indication indicative of the at least one submerged area.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the vehicle information comprises at least one of the following: a height of an air intake and a height of a chassis.
8. A system, comprising: one or more processors; a memory coupled to at least one of the processors; and a set of computer program instructions stored in the memory and executed by at least one of the processors in order to perform actions of: acquiring a first image of a low-lying road being submerged under a bridge; determining at least one second image of the low-lying road without being submerged: estimating a fording depth of the low-lying road based on the first image and the at least one second image.
9. The system according to claim 8, wherein the set of computer program instructions when executed performs actions of: scaling at least one of the first image and the at least one second image to a same scale size; determining a clearance height of the bridge and a first length which is a vertical distance between a low edge of the bridge and a water line of the low-lying road based on the first image; determining a second length which is a vertical distance in the scale between the low edge of the bridge and a ground line of the low-lying road based on the at least one second image; and estimating the fording depth of the low-lying road based on the clearance height of the bridge, the first length and the second length.
10. The system according to claim 8, wherein the set of computer program instructions when executed performs actions of: generating a third image which is the first image superimposed with an indication of the fording depth.
11. The system according to claim 9, wherein the first image is collected by an imaging device arranged on a vehicle.
12. The system according to claim 11, wherein the set of computer program instructions when executed performs actions of: determining a location of the vehicle; determining the at least one second image from an image repository based on the location of the vehicle.
13. The system according to claim 11, wherein the set of computer program instructions when executed performs actions of: determining at least one submerged area of the low-lying road based on the fording depth of the low-lying road and vehicle information; and generating a fourth image which is the first image superimposed with at least one indication indicative of the at least one submerged area.
14. The system according to claim 13, wherein the vehicle information comprises at least one of the following: a height of an air intake and a height of a chassis.
15. A computer program product, comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to: acquire a first image of a low-lying road being submerged under a bridge; determine at least one second image of the low-lying road without being submerged: estimate a fording depth of the low-lying road based on the first image and the at least one second image.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, the program instructions executable by the processor cause the processor to: scale at least one of the first image and the at least one second image to a same scale size; determine a clearance height of the bridge and a first length which is a vertical distance between a low edge of the bridge and a water line of the low-lying road based on the first image; determine a second length which is a vertical distance between the low edge of the bridge and a ground line of the low-lying road under the bridge based on the at least one second image; and estimate the fording depth of the low-lying road based on the clearance height of the bridge, the first length and the second length.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, the program instructions executable by the processor cause the processor to: generate a third image which is the first image superimposed with an indication of the fording depth to be displayed.
18. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the first image is collected by an imaging device arranged on a vehicle.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, the program instructions executable by the processor cause the processor to: determine a location of the vehicle, determine the at least one second image from an image repository based on the location of the vehicle.
20. The computer program product of claim 18, the program instructions executable by the processor cause the processor to: determine at least one submerged area of the low-lying road based on the fording depth of the low-lying road, a slope angle of the low-lying road, and vehicle information; and generate a fourth image which is the first image superimposed with at least one indication indicative of the at least one submerged area to be displayed.
</claims>
</document>
