<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W10/04,B60W10/20,B60W30/18,B60W50/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HONDA MOTOR COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HIROSAWA, NOZOMU
ISHIOKA, ATSUSHI
KANOH, TADAHIKO
KATO, DAICHI
TSUJI KANTA
YASHIRO, KATSUYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72604176
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VEHICLE CONTROL DEVICE, VEHICLE CONTROL METHOD, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicle control device includes a recognizer configured to recognize situations around a vehicle; a determiner configured to determine any of lanes included in a road on which the vehicle travels as a reference lane; and a driving controller configured to control at least one of a speed and steering of the vehicle according to the situations recognized by the recognizer and the reference lane determined by the determiner, wherein the determiner is configured to, when the vehicle moves from a first road to a second road different from the first road, among a plurality of lanes included in the first road, according to a relative position of a first reference lane determined at a time before the vehicle moves to the second road with respect to the plurality of lanes, determine a second reference lane on the second road.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicle control device, comprising: a recognizer configured to recognize situations around a vehicle; a determiner configured to determine any of lanes included in a road on which the vehicle travels as a reference lane; and a driving controller configured to control at least one of a speed and steering of the vehicle according to the situations recognized by the recognizer and the reference lane determined by the determiner, wherein the determiner is configured to, when the vehicle moves from a first road to a second road different from the first road, among a plurality of lanes included in the first road, according to a relative position of a first reference lane determined at a time before the vehicle moves to the second road with respect to the plurality of lanes, determine a second reference lane on the second road.
2. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, wherein the determiner is configured to determine the second reference lane according to a relative position of the first reference lane when the number of lanes of the first road and the number of lanes of the second road are the same.
3. The vehicle control device according to claim 2, wherein, when the n-th lane out of lanes in one direction among a plurality of lanes included in the first road is determined as the first reference lane, the determiner is configured to determine the n-th lane out of lanes in the one direction among a plurality of lanes included in the second road as the second reference lane.
4. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, wherein, when the number of lanes of the first road is different from the number of lanes of the second road, the determiner is configured to determine the second reference lane according to a relative position of the first reference lane and predetermined regulations applying to the first road and the second road.
5. The vehicle control device according to claim 4, wherein, when the number of lanes of the second road is larger than the number of lanes of the first road and the n-th lane out of lanes determined by the predetermined regulations among a plurality of lanes included in the first road is determined as the first reference lane, the determiner is configured to determine the n-th lane out of lanes determined by the predetermined regulations among a plurality of lanes included in the second road as the second reference lane.
6. The vehicle control device according to claim 4, wherein, when the number of lanes of the second road is fewer than the number of lanes of the first road, and the n-th lane from the outermost lane opposite to the lane determined by the predetermined regulations among a plurality of lanes included in the first road is determined as the first reference lane, the determiner is configured to determine the n-th lane counted from the outermost lane opposite to the lane determined by the predetermined regulations among a plurality of lanes included in the second road as the second reference lane.
7. The vehicle control device according to claim 5, wherein, when a ratio between the number of lanes of the first road and the number of lanes of the second road is equal to or larger than a first threshold value which is smaller than 1 or less than a second threshold value which is larger than 1, the determiner is configured to determine the second reference lane.
8. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, wherein, if the number of lanes of the first road is different from the number of lanes of the second road, when the second reference lane in the second road is determined, the determiner is configured to reduce a degree of correspondence of a relative position of the first reference lane.
9. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, wherein, when a ratio between the number of lanes of the first road and the number of lanes of the second road is less than a first threshold value which is smaller than 1 or equal to or larger than a second threshold value which is larger than 1, the determiner is configured to determine the second reference lane so that a relative position of the first reference lane in the first road and a relative position of the second reference lane in the second road match.
10. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, wherein the determiner is configured to determine the second reference lane according to a relative position of the first reference lane at a position a predetermined distance away from a connection point between the first road and the second road.
11. The vehicle control device according to claim 10, wherein, among the plurality of lanes included in the first road, at the connection point, when a lane connected to a junction connecting the first road and the second road is closer to a lane determined by predetermined regulations than the first reference lane, the determiner is configured to set the predetermined distance to be longer than when the lane connected to the junction is farther from a lane determined by the predetermined regulations than the first reference lane.
12. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, wherein, when a speed at which the vehicle passes along the first road is different from a speed at which the vehicle passes along the second road, the determiner is not configured to determine the second reference lane according to a relative position of the first reference lane.
13. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, wherein, when an entering lane in which the vehicle enters from the first road is different from the second reference lane among a plurality of lanes included in the second road, the driving controller is configured to determine a control mode of a lane change from the entering lane to the second reference lane according to a relative position between the entering lane and the second reference lane.
14. The vehicle control device according to claim 13, wherein the driving controller is configured to reduce a traveling speed or a traveling distance when lanes are changed from the entering lane to the second reference lane compared to when left-hand traffic regulations are applied to the first road and the second road, when the second reference lane is a lane on the left side of the entering lane, or when the second reference lane is a lane on the right side of the entering lane, and reduce a traveling speed or a traveling distance when lanes are changed from the entering lane to the second reference lane compared to when a right-hand traffic regulations are applied to the first road and the second road, when the second reference lane is a lane on the right side of the entering lane, or when the second reference lane is a lane on the left side of the entering lane.
15. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, further comprising a detector configured to detect an instruction to change lanes issued from an occupant of the vehicle, wherein, when the detector detects the instruction, the driving controller is configured to control a speed and steering of the vehicle, and causes the vehicle to change lanes to the lane instructed by the occupant, and wherein, when the first reference lane determined at a time before the vehicle moves to the second road is the lane instructed by the occupant, the determiner is configured to determine the second reference lane according to a relative position of the first reference lane.
16. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, wherein, when the number of lanes of the second road is equal to or larger than a threshold value, the determiner is not configured to determine the second reference lane according to a relative position of the first reference lane.
17. A vehicle control method causing a computer mounted in a vehicle to perform: recognizing situations around the vehicle; determining any of lanes included in a road on which the vehicle travels as a reference lane; controlling at least one of a speed and steering of the vehicle according to the recognized situations and the determined reference lane; and when the vehicle moves from a first road to a second road different from the first road, among a plurality of lanes included in the first road, according to a relative position of a first reference lane determined at a time before the vehicle moves to the second road with respect to the plurality of lanes, determining a second reference lane on the second road.
18. A computer readable non-transitory storage medium storing a program causing a computer mounted in a vehicle to execute: recognizing situations around the vehicle; determining any of lanes included in a road on which the vehicle travels as a reference lane; controlling at least one of a speed and steering of the vehicle according to the recognized situations and the determined reference lane; and when the vehicle moves from a first road to a second road different from the first road, among a plurality of lanes included in the first road, according to a relative position of a first reference lane determined at a time before the vehicle moves to the second road with respect to the plurality of lanes, determining a second reference lane on the second road.
</claims>
</document>
