<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R19/25,G06F16/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOUMOTO, SHIGERU
SANEYOSHI, EISUKE
SHOUJIGUCHI, AKIRA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65015180
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
STATE ESTIMATION APPARATUS, METHOD, AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A state estimation apparatus is configured to extract a time interval to be analyzed from a time series of a first signal based on a second signal acquired in conjunction with the first signal relating to the operation of the facility, and estimate a change in a state of the facility based on waveform data of the time interval of the first signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A state estimation apparatus comprising: a processor; and a memory storing a program executable by the processor, wherein the processor is configured to extract a time interval to be analyzed from a time series of a first signal based on a second signal acquired in conjunction with the first signal relating to an operation of a facility; and estimate a change in a state of the facility based on waveform data of the time interval of the first signal.
2. The state estimation apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to select the time interval of the signal as an analysis target, when the second signal corresponding to a certain time interval in the time series of the first signal is at a predetermined value or in a predetermined state.
3. The state estimation apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the processor is configured to exclude, from an analysis target, a time interval in the time series of the first signal, the time interval corresponding to an operating mode which is unaffected by a change in a state of the facility.
4. The state estimation apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to use current and voltage of the facility as the first and second signals, respectively, and extracts a time interval of the current of the facility operating at the voltage of a specified value or in a specified range.
5. The state estimation apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to perform a filtering process corresponding to a temporal change of a state to be estimated and estimate a temporal change in a state of the facility.
6. The state estimation apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the processor is configured to calculate time-series data of a risk of failure of the facility, based on time-series data of current information in the time interval, apply a filtering process corresponding to a time constant of a temporal change of the state to be estimated on the time-series data of the risk of failure corresponding to the time interval to estimate a temporal change in the state of the facility.
7. The state estimation apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the processor is configured to use current of the facility as the first signal and any one of power, temperature, humidity, vibration, and atmospheric pressure of the facility, as the second signal.
8. A state estimation method that estimates a state of a facility by a computer, the method comprising: extracting a time interval to be analyzed from a time series of a first signal based on a second signal acquired in conjunction with the first signal relating to an operation of a facility; and estimating a change in a state of the facility based on waveform data of the time interval of the first signal.
9. The state estimation method according to claim 8, comprising selecting the time interval of the first signal as an analysis target, when the second signal corresponding to a certain time interval in the time series of the first signal is at a predetermined value or in a predetermined state.
10. The state estimation method according to claim 9, comprising excluding, from an analysis target, a time interval in the time series of the first signal, the time interval corresponding to an operating mode which is unaffected by a change in a state of the facility.
11. The state estimation method according to claim 9, comprising using current and voltage of the facility as the first and second signals, respectively to extract a time interval of the current of the facility operating at the voltage of a specified value or in a specified range.
12. The state estimation method according to claim 8, comprising performing a filtering process corresponding to a temporal change of a state to be estimated and estimates a temporal change in a state of the facility.
13. The state estimation method according to claim 11, comprising: calculating time-series data of a risk of failure of the facility, based on time-series data of current information in the time interval; and applying a filtering process corresponding to a time constant of a temporal change of the state to be estimated on the time-series data of the risk of failure corresponding to the time interval to estimate a temporal change in the state of the facility.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium storing a program causing a computer to execute processing comprising: extracting a time interval to be analyzed from a time series of a first signal based on a second signal acquired in conjunction with the first signal relating to an operation of a facility; and estimating a change in a state of the facility based on waveform data of the time interval of the first signal.
15. (canceled)
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 14, storing the program causing the computer to execute processing comprising: selecting the time interval of the first signal as an analysis target, when the second signal corresponding to a certain time interval in the time series of the first signal is at a predetermined value or in a predetermined state.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 14, storing the program causing the computer to execute processing comprising: excluding, from an analysis target, a time interval in the time series of the first signal, the time interval corresponding to an operating mode which is unaffected by a change in a state of the facility.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 14, storing the program causing the computer to execute processing comprising: using current and voltage of the facility as the first and second signals, respectively to extract a time interval of the current of the facility operating at the voltage of a specified value or in a specified range.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 14, storing the program causing the computer to execute processing comprising: performing a filtering process corresponding to a temporal change of a state to be estimated and estimates a temporal change in a state of the facility.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 18, storing the program causing the computer to execute processing comprising: calculating time-series data of a risk of failure of the facility, based on time-series data of current information in the time interval; and applying a filtering process corresponding to a time constant of a temporal change of the state to be estimated on the time-series data of the risk of failure corresponding to the time interval to estimate a temporal change in the state of the facility.
</claims>
</document>
