<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B41J11/00,B41J2/015,B41J2/125,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GURUDATH, NIKITA
LIN JUAN
RICOH COMPANY
STANICH, MIKEL JOHN
</assignee>

<inventors>
GURUDATH, NIKITA
LIN JUAN
STANICH, MIKEL JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69740202
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDIUM CLASSIFICATION MECHANISM
</title>

<abstract>
A system is disclosed. The system includes at least one physical memory device to store medium classification logic and one or more processors coupled with the at least one physical memory device to execute the medium classification logic to receive optical density (OD) measurement data corresponding to application of a halftone pattern using ink on a print medium in a printing system, receive ink deposition measurement data corresponding to application of the halftone pattern using the ink in a printing system, determine a set of distribution function parameters based on the OD measurement data and the ink deposition measurement data, apply the set of distribution function parameters to machine learning logic trained to classify the print medium and classify the print medium as a first of a plurality of print medium categories based on the machine learning logic.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: at least one physical memory device to store medium classification logic; and one or more processors coupled with the at least one physical memory device to execute the medium classification logic to receive optical density (OD) measurement data corresponding to application of a halftone pattern using ink on a print medium in a printing system, receive ink deposition data corresponding to application of the halftone pattern using the ink in a printing system, determine a set of distribution function parameters based on the OD measurement data and the ink deposition data, apply the set of distribution function parameters to machine learning logic trained to classify the print medium and classify the print medium as a first of a plurality of print medium categories based on the machine learning logic.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a printing system.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the medium classification logic transmits a first setting indicating that the print medium is to be classified as the first of the plurality of print medium categories.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the machine learning logic is trained by applying a plurality of training samples each categorized with one of the plurality of print medium categories.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the medium classification logic determines an OD versus ink deposition relationship for the printing system based on the received OD measurement data.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the set of distribution function parameters comprises distribution function parameters associated with each of a plurality of color channels supported by the printing system.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the machine learning logic receives the set of distribution function parameters associated with each of the plurality of color channels and classifies the print medium based on the plurality of training samples closest in distance to a point.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the machine learning logic classifies the print medium as comprising the first print medium category based on the plurality of training samples closest in distance to the point.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the machine learning logic performs a k-nearest neighbor model to determine the one of the plurality of training samples closest in distance to the point in order to categorize the print medium.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein training the machine learning logic comprises applying a plurality of training samples each categorized with one of a plurality of print medium categories.
11. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive optical density (OD) measurement data corresponding to application of a halftone pattern using ink on a print medium in a printing system; receive ink deposition measurement data corresponding to application of the halftone pattern using the ink in a printing system; determine a set of distribution function parameters based on the OD measurement data and the ink deposition measurement data; apply the set of distribution function parameters to machine learning logic trained to classify the print medium; and classify the print medium as a first of a plurality of print medium categories based on the machine learning logic.
12. The machine-readable medium of claim 11, having stored thereon instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to transmit a first setting indicating that the print medium is to be classified as the first print medium category.
13. The machine-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the machine learning logic is trained by applying a plurality of training samples each categorized with one of the plurality of print medium categories.
14. The machine-readable medium of claim 11, having stored thereon instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to determine an OD versus ink deposition relationship for the printing system based on the received OD measurement data.
15. The machine-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the set of distribution function parameters comprises distribution function parameters associated with each of a plurality of color channels supported by the printing system.
16. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein applying the set of distribution function parameters to machine learning logic comprises: the machine learning logic receiving the set of distribution function parameters associated with each of the plurality of color channels; and classifying the print medium based on the plurality of training samples closest in distance to a point.
17. A method comprising: receiving optical density (OD) measurement data corresponding to application of a halftone pattern using ink on a print medium in a printing system; receiving ink deposition measurement data corresponding to application of the halftone pattern using the ink in a printing system; determining a set of distribution function parameters based on the OD measurement data and the ink deposition measurement data; applying the set of distribution function parameters to machine learning logic trained to classify the print medium; and classifying the print medium as a first of a plurality of print medium categories based on the machine learning logic.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising transmitting a first setting indicating that the print medium is to be classified as the first print medium category.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the machine learning logic is trained by applying a plurality of training samples each categorized with one of the plurality of print medium categories.
20. The method of claim 17, further comprising determining an OD versus ink deposition relationship for the printing system based on the received OD measurement data.
</claims>
</document>
