<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/17,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HA, Eun
MARKANDAIAH, Nisarga
KATREDDI, Naga
SWIFT, Mary
RAIMUGIA, Vishesh
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73456853
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COGNITIVE METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR RESPONDING TO COMPUTING SYSTEM INCIDENTS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments for responding to computing system incidents are provided. Information associated with a computing system is analyzed to generate a base system model of the computing system. The information includes at least one of system logs and metrics data of the computing system. An indication of an incident associated with the computing system is received. The base system model is utilized to analyze the incident. The analysis of the incident includes characterizing the incident as a previously detected incident or an unknown incident. A strategy for responding to the incident is identified based on the analysis of the incident.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for responding to computing system incidents, by a processor, comprising: analyzing information associated with a computing system to generate a base system model of the computing system, wherein the information comprises at least one of system logs and metrics data of the computing system; receiving an indication of an incident associated with the computing system; utilizing the base system model to analyze the incident, wherein the analysis of the incident includes characterizing the incident as a previously detected incident or an unknown incident; and identifying a strategy for responding to the incident based on the analysis of the incident.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: calculating an estimated time to resolve the incident; and generating an indication of the estimated time.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the strategy for responding to the incident comprises at least one of a restart of at least a subsystem of the computing system, generating a notification of the incident, and assigning the incident to an entity associated with the computing system.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the strategy for responding to the incident comprises selecting the strategy from a plurality of strategies previously utilized for responding to previous incidents.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising storing information associated with the incident.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the analysis of the incident comprises performing natural language processing on the received indication of the incident, the characterizing of the incident is performed utilizing an unsupervised learning method, or a combination thereof.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising causing the strategy for responding to the incident to be executed.
8. A system for responding to computing system incidents comprising: a processor executing instructions stored in a memory device, wherein the processor: analyzes information associated with a computing system to generate a base system model of the computing system, wherein the information comprises at least one of system logs and metrics data of the computing system; receives an indication of an incident associated with the computing system; utilizes the base system model to analyze the incident, wherein the analysis of the incident includes characterizing the incident as a previously detected incident or an unknown incident; and identifies a strategy for responding to the incident based on the analysis of the incident.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor further: calculates an estimated time to resolve the incident; and generates an indication of the estimated time.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the strategy for responding to the incident comprises at least one of a restart of at least a subsystem of the computing system, generating a notification of the incident, and assigning the incident to an entity associated with the computing system.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the strategy for responding to the incident comprises selecting the strategy from a plurality of strategies previously utilized for responding to previous incidents.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor further stores information associated with the incident.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the analysis of the incident comprises performing natural language processing on the received indication of the incident, the characterizing of the incident is performed utilizing an unsupervised learning method, or a combination thereof.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor further causes the strategy for responding to the incident to be executed.
15. A computer program product for responding to computing system incidents, by a processor, the computer program product embodied on a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code portions stored therein, the computer-readable program code portions comprising: an executable portion that analyzes information associated with a computing system to generate a base system model of the computing system, wherein the information comprises at least one of system logs and metrics data of the computing system; an executable portion that receives an indication of an incident associated with the computing system; an executable portion that utilizes the base system model to analyze the incident, wherein the analysis of the incident includes characterizing the incident as a previously detected incident or an unknown incident; and an executable portion that identifies a strategy for responding to the incident based on the analysis of the incident.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the computer-readable program code portions further include: an executable portion that calculates an estimated time to resolve the incident; and an executable portion that generates an indication of the estimated time.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the strategy for responding to the incident comprises at least one of a restart of at least a subsystem of the computing system, generating a notification of the incident, and assigning the incident to an entity associated with the computing system.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the strategy for responding to the incident comprises selecting the strategy from a plurality of strategies previously utilized for responding to previous incidents.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the computer-readable program code portions further include an executable portion that stores information associated with the incident.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the analysis of the incident comprises performing natural language processing on the received indication of the incident, the characterizing of the incident is performed utilizing an unsupervised learning method, or a combination thereof.
21. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the computer-readable program code portions further include an executable portion that causes the strategy for responding to the incident to be executed.
</claims>
</document>
