<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/56,G06Q30/02,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FIVE MEDIA MARKETING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABU, SHARON
BOOKS, GUY
SIEV, AMNON SEM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70973303
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SECURITY MANAGEMENT OF ADVERTISEMENTS AT ONLINE ADVERTISING NETWORKS AND ONLINE ADVERTISING EXCHANGES
</title>

<abstract>
At an advertising server: adding tracking code to advertisements served by the advertising server, wherein the tracking code is configured to cause web browsers displaying the served advertisements to transmit their contents to a security server. At the security server: scanning the received advertisements to detect presence of malicious code, and storing results of the scanning in a database. At the advertising server: prior to serving a new advertisement that has won in RTB, querying the database for scan results associated with the new advertisement. When the scan results indicate a malicious advertisement, preventing a serving of the new advertisement. When the scan results indicate a safe advertisement, allowing a serving the new advertisement. When no scan results are available for the new advertisement, adding the tracking code to the new advertisement and serving it, such that its contents are scanned by the security server.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising, at an advertising server that employs RTB (Real-Time Bidding): (i) prior to serving a new advertisement that has won an RTB process, querying a database for scanning results associated with the new advertisement, to determine if the new advertisement: (a) has been scanned in the past, and includes malicious code, (b) has been scanned in the past, and is devoid of malicious code, or (c) has not been scanned in the past; (ii) when the new advertisement has been determined to include malicious code, preventing a serving of the new advertisement; (iii) when the new advertisement has been determined to be devoid of malicious code, allowing a serving the new advertisement; and (iv) when the new advertisement has been determined to not having been scanned in the past, adding tracking code to the new advertisement and serving the new advertisement with the added tracking code, such that contents of the new advertisement are scanned.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising, prior to (i): at the advertising server: adding the tracking code to advertisements served by the advertising server, wherein the tracking code is configured to cause web browsers displaying the served advertisements to transmit contents of the advertisements to a security server; and at the security server: receiving the contents of the advertisements from web browsers that displayed the served advertisements, scanning the contents of the advertisements to detect presence of malicious code, and storing results of the scanning in the database, wherein the database is maintained at the advertising server, at the security server, or at a different server.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the tracking code comprises JavaScript program code.
4. The method according to claim 2, wherein the scanning of the contents of the advertisements comprises: searching for software methods capable of invoking a user event without an action by a user of a web browser; and analyzing the user event to determine if the user event is configured to cause the web browser to perform an action outside a dedicated advertising space.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the user event is determined to be configured to cause the web browser to perform the action outside the dedicated advertising space, if the user event is of the group consisting of: "document.createEvent"; "Event.initEvent"; and use of an "Event( )" constructor to create a new event.
6. The method according to claim 4, wherein the user event is determined to be configured to cause the web browser to perform the action outside the dedicated advertising space, if: the user event comprises a registration of a new event listener.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein said new event listener is selected from the group consisting of: "EventTarget.addEventListener"; "attachEvent( )"; and "captureEvents( )".
8. The method according to claim 4, wherein: the dedicated advertising space is an HTML (HyperText Markup Language) sub-document nested inside an iframe of an HTML document; and the action outside the dedicated advertising space is navigation away from the HTML document.
9. The method according to claim 4, wherein the dedicated advertising space is inside a software application which is not a web browser.
10. A system comprising: an advertising server that employs RTB (Real-Time Bidding), and is configured to: (i) prior to serving a new advertisement that has won an RTB process, query a database for scanning results associated with the new advertisement, to determine if the new advertisement: (a) has been scanned in the past, and includes malicious code, (b) has been scanned in the past, and is devoid of malicious code, or (c) has not been scanned in the past, (ii) when the new advertisement has been determined to include malicious code, preventing a serving of the new advertisement, (iii) when the new advertisement has been determined to be devoid of malicious code, allowing a serving the new advertisement, and (iv) when the new advertisement has been determined to not having been scanned in the past, adding tracking code to the new advertisement and serving the new advertisement with the added tracking code, such that contents of the new advertisement are scanned.
11. The system according to claim 10, wherein: the system further comprises a security server; the advertising server is further configured, prior to (i), to: add the tracking code to advertisements served by the advertising server, wherein the tracking code is configured to cause web browsers displaying the served advertisements to transmit contents of the advertisements to said security server; and said security server is configured to: receive the contents of the advertisements from web browsers that displayed the served advertisements, scan the contents of the advertisements to detect presence of malicious code, and store results of the scanning in the database, wherein the database is maintained at the advertising server, at the security server, or at a different server.
12. The system according to claim 11, wherein the tracking code comprises JavaScript program code.
13. The system according to claim 11, wherein the scanning of the contents of the advertisements comprises: searching for software methods capable of invoking a user event without an action by a user of a web browser; and analyzing the user event to determine if the user event is configured to cause the web browser to perform an action outside a dedicated advertising space.
14. The system according to claim 13, wherein the user event is determined to be configured to cause the web browser to perform the action outside the dedicated advertising space, if the user event is of the group consisting of: "document.createEvent"; "Event.initEvent"; and use of an "Event( )" constructor to create a new event.
15. The system according to claim 13, wherein the user event is determined to be configured to cause the web browser to perform the action outside the dedicated advertising space, if: the user event comprises a registration of a new event listener.
16. The system according to claim 15, wherein said new event listener is selected from the group consisting of: "EventTarget.addEventListener"; "attachEvent( )"; and "captureEvents( )".
17. The system according to claim 13, wherein: the dedicated advertising space is an HTML (HyperText Markup Language) sub-document nested inside an iframe of an HTML document; and the action outside the dedicated advertising space is navigation away from the HTML document.
18. The system according to claim 13, wherein the dedicated advertising space is inside a software application which is not a web browser.
19. A computer program product comprising at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, the program code executable by at least one hardware processor to: at an advertising server that employs RTB (Real-Time Bidding): (i) prior to serving a new advertisement that has won an RTB process, querying a database for scanning results associated with the new advertisement, to determine if the new advertisement: (a) has been scanned in the past, and includes malicious code, (b) has been scanned in the past, and is devoid of malicious code, or (c) has not been scanned in the past; (ii) when the new advertisement has been determined to include malicious code, preventing a serving of the new advertisement; (iii) when the new advertisement has been determined to be devoid of malicious code, allowing a serving the new advertisement; and (iv) when the new advertisement has been determined to not having been scanned in the past, adding tracking code to the new advertisement and serving the new advertisement with the added tracking code, such that contents of the new advertisement are scanned.
20. The computer program product according to claim 19, further comprising, prior to (i): at the advertising server: adding the tracking code to advertisements served by the advertising server, wherein the tracking code is configured to cause web browsers displaying the served advertisements to transmit contents of the advertisements to a security server; and at the security server: receiving the contents of the advertisements from web browsers that displayed the served advertisements, scanning the contents of the advertisements to detect presence of malicious code, and storing results of the scanning in the database, wherein the database is maintained at the advertising server, at the security server, or at a different server.
</claims>
</document>
