<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04W16/18,H04W24/02,H04W84/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
GONGUET, VINCENT
TEZEL, BIRCE
VARKEY, PAUL PARAYIL
ZAWADZKI, ERIK
MARTIN, JOHN
BUTTON, JOSEPH WARREN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69162564
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Network design optimization
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a computing system may identify, in a geographic region, a number of sites satisfying one or more criteria based at least on geographic data accessed from one or more data sources. The system may generate, for the geographic region, a number of communication network graphs each satisfying one or more network coverage conditions. Each communication network graph may include a number of nodes corresponding to the sites and a number of edges corresponding to communication network connections between the sites. The system may rank the communication network graphs based on one or more performance parameters. The system may select an optimized communication network graph for the geographic region from the communication network graphs based on their respective rankings.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising, by a computing system: accessing from one or more data sources, geographic data related to a geographic region of interest; identifying, in the geographic region, a plurality of sites satisfying one or more criteria based at least on the geographic data accessed from the one or more data sources; generating, by an integer linear program, for the geographic region, a plurality of communication network graphs each satisfying one or more network coverage conditions, wherein each communication network graph comprises a plurality of nodes corresponding to the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria and a plurality of edges corresponding to communication network connections between the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria; ranking the plurality of communication network graphs based on one or more performance parameters; and selecting an optimized communication network graph for the geographic region from the plurality of communication network graphs based on their respective rankings.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria are mandatory sites in the geographic region that need to be connected with a minimum connectivity service level under a plurality of network failure scenarios.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more network coverage conditions comprise one or more of: a minimum connectivity service level for the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria being above a pre-determined threshold under the plurality of network failure scenarios; a redundancy metric associated with the communication network connection between the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria being above a redundancy threshold; a reliability metric associated with the communication network connections between the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria being above a reliability threshold; a cost metric associated with the plurality of communication network graphs being below a cost threshold; a revenue metric associated with the plurality of communication network graphs being above a revenue threshold; or one or more constraints based on one or more rules for generating the plurality of communication network graphs.
4. (canceled)
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: determining, based at least on the geographic data, one or more first properties associated with the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria in the geographic region; determining, based at least on the geographic data, one or more second properties associated with the communication network connections between the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria in the geographic region; and determining the one or more network coverage conditions for the integer linear program based at least on the one or more first properties associated with the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria and the one or more second properties associated with the communication network connections.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the one or more first properties associated with the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria comprise one or more of: a population; a population density; a penetration rate; a data consumption metric; a predicted data consumption metric; an estimated revenue; an average revenue per user (ARPU); a shape; a terrain; a terrain roughness; an elevation; an area size; a dimensional metric; a land cover type; a distance to another region; a travel time to major cities; a travel time to existing coverages; a geographic property; or a coverage of an existing infrastructure.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the one or more first properties associated with the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria are determined using a machine-learning algorithm based on satellite images.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the one or more second properties associated with the communication network connections for the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria comprise one or more of: a length; a cost metric; a construction type; a related terrain; a related existing infrastructure; a capacity; a reliability metric; or a redundancy metric.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating one or more value models for the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria in the geographic region; and determining a site value for each site of the plurality sites based on the one or more value models.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more performance parameters comprise one or more of: a covered population; a revenue metric; an overall cost metric; a cost metric per covered person; a cost metric per incremental coverage; a reliability metric; a redundancy metric; a solution distance; a total available market (TAM) metric; or a serviceable available market (SAM) metric.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of communication network graphs connect the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria in the geographic region using a combination of networks comprising one or more of: a fiber network; a cable network; a wireless communication network; or a mmWave network.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, using a computer vision algorithm, one or more houses in the geographic region; and determining one or more settlements based at least on spatial clustering of the identified one or more houses in the geographic region.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining a network type that connects the one or more settlements with a key performance parameter above a pre-determined threshold.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining a shape for each settlement of the one or more settlements; determining a circle area ratio for that settlement based on the determined shape of that settlement; and determining an antenna arrangement for one or more wireless communication towers for that settlement based on the circle area ratio, the shape, and a connectivity demand of that settlement.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of communication network graphs are generated based on one or more existing infrastructures in the geographic region.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the one or more existing infrastructures comprise one or more of: a pipeline; a power line; a bridge; a tunnel; a road; a building; a light pole; a cellar network tower; a sub-marine cable; or an existing communication network.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more data sources comprise one or more of: a geographic map repository; a satellite image repository; a road camera image repository; a vehicle camera image repository; a LiDAR data repository; an open-source data source; or a data provider.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the geographic data comprises one or more geographic maps of the geographic region, further comprising: generating the communication network connections for the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria; and aggregating the communication network connections and locations of the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria into the one or more geographic maps.
19. One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to: access from one or more data sources, geographic data related to a geographic region of interest; identify, in the geographic region, a plurality of sites satisfying one or more criteria based at least on the geographic data accessed from one or more data sources; generate, by an integer linear program, for the geographic region, a plurality of communication network graphs each satisfying one or more network coverage conditions, wherein each communication network graph comprises a plurality of nodes corresponding to the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria and a plurality of edges corresponding to communication network connections between the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria; rank the plurality of communication network graphs based on one or more performance parameters; and select an optimized communication network graph for the geographic region from the plurality of communication network graphs based on their respective rankings.
20. A system comprising: one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media embodying instructions; and one or more processors coupled to the storage media and operable to execute the instructions to: identify, in a geographic region, a plurality of sites satisfying one or more criteria based at least on geographic data accessed from one or more data sources; generate, for the geographic region, a plurality of communication network graphs each satisfying one or more network coverage conditions, wherein each communication network graph comprises a plurality of nodes corresponding to the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria and a plurality of edges corresponding to communication network connections between the plurality of sites satisfying the one or more criteria; rank the plurality of communication network graphs based on one or more performance parameters; and select an optimized communication network graph for the geographic region from the plurality of communication network graphs based on their respective rankings.
</claims>
</document>
