<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G07C5/00,G08B21/00,H04W4/40,H04W4/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOFFNER, BARRY F.
MATHISON, JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70326185
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for event detection based on vehicular mobile sensors and MEC system
</title>

<abstract>
A method, a device, and a non-transitory storage medium are described in which an event detection service is provided. A network device of a Multi-access Edge Computing network receives sensed data from vehicular devices and metadata. The network device is pre-configured with criteria information to detect events including events pertaining to public safety. The network device also can be remotely triggered to detect customized events. The network device may trigger vehicular devices to capture sensed data. The network device may receive and analyze the sensed data and the metadata, and determine whether the customized event is detected.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: storing, by a network device of a Multi-access Edge Computing (MEC) network, pre-configured criteria information pertaining to one or multiple types of events to be detected; receiving, by the network device, first sensed data from a first vehicular device of a first vehicle that includes a first sensor, wherein the first sensor is native to the first vehicle and supports a native operation performed by the first vehicle and the first sensor detects the first sensed data, and wherein the first sensor includes a video camera and the first sensed data includes video data; selecting, by the network device in response to the receiving, at least one of the one or multiple types of events based on a type of the first sensed data; analyzing, by the network device in response to the selecting, the first sensed data based on the pre-configured criteria information that correlates to the selected at least one of the one or multiple types of events; determining, by the network device in response to the analyzing, whether the at least one of the one or multiple types of events is detected; generating, by the network device, data indicating the at least one of the one or multiple types of events is detected when it is determined that the at least one of the one or multiple types of events is detected; and transmitting, by the network device in response to the generating, the data to another device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or multiple types of events pertain to a public safety event that includes at least one of a fire, an explosion, or a chemical spill.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the pre-configured criteria information includes one or multiple inference models configured for object recognition pertaining to the at least one of the one or multiple types of events.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or multiple types of events pertain to broken utility equipment associated with a delivery of at least one of electricity, telephone, television, or water.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the analyzing further comprising: using, by the network device, two or more different types of first sensed data to determine whether the at least one of the one or multiple types of events is detected.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing, by the network device, event detection data and metadata pertaining to the at least one of the one or multiple types of events that have been detected; receiving, by the network device from an end device associated with a user, a request to search the event detection data and the metadata based on one or multiple criteria; and providing, by the network device to the end device, a response that includes a result of the search based on the one or multiple criteria.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the network device, first metadata pertaining to the first sensed data, wherein the first metadata indicates a first date, a first time, and a first location; and transmitting, by the network device to a second vehicular device of a second vehicle in a locale of the at least one of the one or multiple types of events via a wireless access network, a message that triggers a capture of second sensed data that is of a different type than the first sensed data, when it is determined that the at least one of the one or multiple types of events is detected, and wherein the message indicates a setting for a second sensor of the second vehicular device.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the native operation includes parking assistance.
9. A network device of a Multi-access Edge Computing (MEC) network comprising: a communication interface; a memory, wherein the memory stores instructions; and a processor, wherein the processor executes the instructions to: store pre-configured criteria information pertaining to one or multiple types of events to be detected; receive, via the communication interface, first sensed data from a first vehicular device of a first vehicle that includes a first sensor, wherein the first sensor is native to the first vehicle and supports a native operation performed by the first vehicle and the first sensor detects the first sensed data, and wherein the first sensor includes a video camera and the first sensed data includes video data; select, in response to the receipt of the first sensed data, at least one of the one or multiple types of events based on a type of the first sensed data; analyze, in response to the selection, the first sensed data based on the pre-configured criteria information that correlates to the selected at least one of the one or multiple types of events; determine, in response to the analysis, whether the at least one of the one or multiple types of events is detected; generate data indicating the at least one of the one or multiple types of events is detected when it is determined that the at least one of the one or multiple types of events is detected; and transmit, via the communication interface, in response to the generation, the data to another device.
10. The network device of claim 9, wherein the one or multiple types of events pertain to a public safety event that includes at least one of a fire, an explosion, or a chemical spill.
11. The network device of claim 9, wherein the pre-configured criteria information includes one or multiple inference models configured for object recognition pertaining to the at least one of the one or multiple types of events.
12. The network device of claim 9, wherein the one or multiple types of events pertain to broken utility equipment associated with a delivery of at least one of electricity, telephone, television, or water.
13. The network device of claim 9, wherein when analyzing, the processor further executes the instructions to: use two or more different types of first sensed data to determine whether the at least one of the one or multiple types of events is detected.
14. The network device of claim 9, wherein the processor further executes the instructions to: store event detection data and metadata pertaining to the at least one of the one or multiple types of events that have been detected; receive, via the communication interface from an end device associated with a user, a request to search the event detection data and the metadata based on one or multiple criteria; and provide a response that includes a result of the search based on the one or multiple criteria.
15. The network device of claim 9, wherein the processor further executes the instructions to: receive, via the communication interface, first metadata pertaining to the first sensed data, wherein the first metadata indicates a first date, a first time, and a first location; and transmit, via the communication interface to a second vehicular device of a second vehicle in a locale of the at least one of the one or multiple types of events via a wireless access network, a message that triggers a capture of second sensed data that is of a different type than the first sensed data, when it is determined that the at least one of the one or multiple types of events is detected, and wherein the message indicates a setting for a second sensor of the second vehicular device.
16. The network device of claim 9, wherein the native operation includes parking assistance.
17. A non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium storing instructions executable by a processor of a device of a Multi-access Edge Computing (MEC) network, which when executed cause the device to: store pre-configured criteria information pertaining to one or multiple types of events to be detected; receive first sensed data from a first vehicular device of a first vehicle that includes a first sensor, wherein the first sensor is native to the first vehicle and supports a native operation performed by the first vehicle and the first sensor detects the first sensed data, and wherein the first sensor includes a video camera and the first sensed data includes video data; select, in response to the receipt of the first sensed data, at least one of the one or multiple types of events based on a type of the first sensed data; analyze, in response to the selection, the first sensed data based on the pre-configured criteria information that correlates to the selected at least one of the one or multiple types of events; determine, in response to the analysis, whether the at least one of the one or multiple types of events is detected; generate data indicating the at least one of the one or multiple types of events is detected when it is determined that the at least one of the one or multiple types of events is detected; and transmit in response to the generation, the data to another device.
18. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the pre-configured criteria information includes one or multiple inference models configured for object recognition pertaining to the at least one of the one or multiple types of events.
19. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the one or multiple types of events pertain to a public safety event that includes at least one of a fire, an explosion, or a chemical spill.
20. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the one or multiple types of events pertain to broken utility equipment associated with a delivery of at least one of electricity, telephone, television, or water.
</claims>
</document>
