<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HISENSE VISUAL TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SUN, YONGRUI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72747861
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR OUTPUTTING AUDIO DATA OF APPLICATIONS AND DISPLAY DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
The embodiments of the present disclosure disclose a method for outputting audio data of applications in a display device. The method includes: while first audio data of one or more first applications is playing by the display device through an audio output interface of the display device, receiving a first input instruction for playing second audio data of a second application; controlling output volume of the first audio data to be muted, and output volume of the second audio data to be maintained in response to the first input instruction; and outputting superimposed data of the muted first audio data and the second audio data with maintained output volume through the audio output interface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for outputting audio data of applications in a display device, comprising: while first audio data of one or more first applications is playing by the display device through an audio output interface of the display device, receiving a first input instruction for playing second audio data of a second application; in response to the first input instruction, controlling output volume of the first audio data to be muted, and output volume of the second audio data to be maintained; and outputting superimposed data of the muted first audio data and the second audio data with maintained output volume through the audio output interface.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: upon receiving the first input instruction, determining whether the second application needs to acquire an audio focus of an operating system in the display device; and in response to determining that the second application needs to acquire the audio focus, modifying an audio stream type corresponding to the second audio data.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the determining whether the second application needs to acquire the audio focus of the operating system in the display device comprises: determining a package name of the second application; determining whether the package name of the second application is included in a white list of pre-stored applications that need to acquire the audio focus; and in response to the package name of the second application being included in the white list, determining that the second application needs to acquire the audio focus.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the second application comprises a voice assistant application.
5. The method according to claim 3, further comprising: upon receiving the first input instruction, determining whether there is a third audio data of a third application whose audio stream type has been modified; and in response to that there is a third application whose audio stream type has been modified, maintaining volume of the audio stream type corresponding to the third audio data of the third application, and muting volume of audio stream types corresponding to audio data of applications other than the third application.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the third application is the second application.
7. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: receiving a second input instruction for stopping playing the second audio data; in response to the second input instruction, controlling the output volume of the first audio data to restore from muting to volume before the first input instruction for playing the second audio data is received; and outputting the first audio data with restored output volume through the audio output interface.
8. A display device, comprising a user interface, an audio output interface, a memory and a controller, wherein, the memory in communication with the user interface and the audio output interface, is configured to store computer programs, instructions associated with the user interface, and audio data associated with the audio output interface; the controller in communication with the user interface, the audio output interface and the memory, is configured to execute the computer programs and/or the instructions to cause the display device to: while first audio data of one or more first applications is playing by the display device through an audio output interface of the display device, receive a first input instruction for playing second audio data of a second application; in response to the first input instruction, control output volume of the first audio data to be muted, and output volume of the second audio data to be maintained; and output superimposed data of the muted first audio data and the second audio data with maintained output volume through the audio output interface.
9. The display device according to claim 8, wherein, the controller is further configured to execute the computer programs and/or the instructions to cause the display device to: upon receiving the first input instruction, determine whether the second application needs to acquire an audio focus of an operating system in the display device; and in response to determining that the second application needs to acquire the audio focus, modify an audio stream type corresponding to the second audio data.
10. The display device according to claim 9, wherein, the controller is further configured to execute the computer programs and/or the instructions to cause the display device to: determine a package name of the second application; determine whether the package name of the second application is included in a white list of pre-stored applications that need to acquire the audio focus; and in response to the package name of the second application being included in the white list, determine that the second application needs to acquire the audio focus.
11. The display device according to claim 10, wherein, the second application comprises a voice assistant application.
12. The display device according to claim 10, wherein the controller is further configured to execute the computer programs and/or the instructions to cause the display device to: upon receiving the first input instruction, determine whether there is a third audio data of a third application whose audio stream type has been modified; and in response to that there is a third application whose audio stream type has been modified, maintaining volume of the audio stream type corresponding to the third audio data of the third application, and mute volume of audio stream types corresponding to audio data of applications other than the third application.
13. The display device according to claim 12, wherein the third application is the second application.
14. The display device according to claim 8, wherein the controller is further configured to execute the computer programs and/or the instructions to cause the display device to: receive a second input instruction for stopping playing the second audio data; in response to the second input instruction, control the output volume of the first audio data to restore from muting to volume before the first input instruction for playing the second audio data is received; and output the first audio data with restored output volume through the audio output interface.
</claims>
</document>
