<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/205,G06F40/40,G06K9/00,G06Q50/18,G10L13/02,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Tonuzi, Matthew M.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Tonuzi, Matthew M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73746279
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR IMPROVED ANALYSIS OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides apparatus and method for improving analysis of legal documents. A legal document is parsed to generate a list of desired legal authorities. These legal authorities are then acquired from a trusted repository of authorities and processed through a modified text-to-speech program in a desired order to obtain a brief audio recording of the cited authorities.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for analyzing a legal document comprising one or more legal authorities, the method comprising the steps of: using an electronic scraper to parse the legal document to generate a list of the legal authorities in a format suitable for input into a repository of legal documents; transmitting the list of the legal authorities to the repository via a communications device in logical connection with the scraper; receiving, via the communications device, from the repository documents embodying the legal authorities within the list of the legal authorities; translating the documents embodying the legal authorities to one or more files comprising an audibly perceptible format, wherein the audibly perceptible format comprises a sound file comprising a spoken version of text associated with the legal authorities; and audibly broadcasting the files with a sound device.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of removing from the files at least a first or a second portion of a citation to a case.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first portion of the citation to the case comprises case reporter information associated with the case.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the second portion of the citation to the case comprises an identity of a court associated with the case.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein a voice synthesizer generates alternative case information to substitute into the files in the place of at least the first or the second portion of the citation to the case.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of parsing the legal document comprises a case law subroutine, which comprises the steps of: for each text-based line of the legal document: search text for the character string "v."; if "v." is not italicized, then continue searching; else, if "v." is italicized, then search the succeeding ten words for character strings matching character strings associated with a prepopulated list of case reporters to identify the case reporter associated with the case law; extract numerical value preceding the case reporter; extract numerical value succeeding the case reporter; generate an entry on the list of legal authorities comprising the numerical value preceding the case reporter, the case reporter, and the numerical value succeeding the case reporter; continue searching the text-based line for an additional character string "v"; if the additional character string "v." occurs within the text-based line, then repeat this loop from the step of if "v." is not italicized, then continue searching; and else, if the text-based line does not consist of an additional character string "v.", then move to a second text-based line.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of parsing the legal document comprises a treatise subroutine, which comprises the steps of: for each text-based line of the legal document: search text-based line for a text string comprising a length of greater than a first predetermined number of characters that uses small caps formatting; search a second predetermined number of characters after the text string; if the second predetermined number of characters after the text string does not comprise one or more numerical values, then continue searching the text-based line for an additional character string comprising small caps formatting; else, if the second predetermined number of characters after the text string does comprise one or more numerical values, then extract the numerical values; generate an entry on the list of legal authorities comprising the text string that uses small caps formatting and the numerical values; continue searching the text-based line for an additional character string comprising a length of greater than the first predetermined number of characters that uses small caps formatting; if the additional character string comprising a length of greater than the first predetermined number of characters that uses small caps formatting, then repeat this loop from the step of search a second predetermined number of characters after the text string; and else, if the text-based line does not consist of an additional character string comprising a length of greater than the first predetermined number of characters that uses small caps formatting, then move to a second text-based line.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of transmitting the files via a communications network to a smart device comprising a processor, an audio output, a memory, and a communications access device in logical connection with the communications network.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of audibly broadcasting the files occurs via an audio output associated with a smart device.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the audio output comprises speakers in logical connection with the smart device.
11. An apparatus for improved analysis of legal documents comprising one or more legal authorities, the apparatus comprising: a processor; a communications access device in logical connection with a communications network; a memory comprising software with instructions executable on command to: parse the legal document to generate a list of the legal authorities in a format suitable for input into a repository of legal documents; transmit via the communications network the list of the legal authorities to the repository; download from the repository documents embodying the legal authorities from the list of the legal authorities; translate the documents embodying the legal authorities to one or more files comprising an audibly perceptible format, wherein the audibly perceptible format comprises a sound file comprising a spoken version of text associated with the legal authorities; and cause an audio device in logical communication with the apparatus to audibly broadcast the files.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the software is further operable to remove from the files at least a first or a second portion of a citation to a case
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the first portion of the citation to the case comprises case reporter information associated with the case.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the second portion of the citation to the case comprises an identity of a court associated with the case.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein a voice synthesizer in logical connection with the apparatus generates alternative case information to substitute into the files in place of at least the first or the second portion of the citation to the case.
16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the software is operable to parse the legal document using a case law subroutine comprising the steps of: for each text-based line of the legal document: search text for the character string "v."; if "v." is not italicized, then continue searching; else, if "v." is italicized, then search the succeeding ten words for character strings matching character strings associated with a prepopulated list of case reporters to identify the case reporter associated with the case law; extract numerical value preceding the case reporter; extract numerical value succeeding the case reporter; generate an entry on the list of legal authorities comprising the numerical value preceding the case reporter, the case reporter, and the numerical value succeeding the case reporter; continue searching the text-based line for an additional character string "v"; if the additional character string "v." occurs within the text-based line, then repeat this loop from the step of if "v." is not italicized, then continue searching; and else, if the text-based line does not consist of an additional character string "v.", then move to a second text-based line.
17. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the software is operable to parse the legal document using a treatise subroutine comprising the steps of: for each text-based line of the legal document: search text-based line for a text string comprising a length of greater than a first predetermined number of characters that uses small caps formatting; search a second predetermined number of characters after the text string; if the second predetermined number of characters after the text string does not comprise one or more numerical values, then continue searching the text-based line for an additional character string comprising small caps formatting; else, if the second predetermined number of characters after the text string does comprise one or more numerical values, then extract the numerical values; generate an entry on the list of legal authorities comprising the text string that uses small caps formatting and the numerical values; continue searching the text-based line for an additional character string comprising a length of greater than the first predetermined number of characters that uses small caps formatting; if the additional character string comprising a length of greater than the first predetermined number of characters that uses small caps formatting, then repeat this loop from the step of search a second predetermined number of characters after the text string; and else, if the text-based line does not consist of an additional character string comprising a length of greater than the first predetermined number of characters that uses small caps formatting, then move to a second text-based line.
18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus comprises a smart device.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the audio device comprises speakers in logical connection to the smart device.
20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the smart device further comprises a speech synthesizer.
</claims>
</document>
