<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08C19/16,G21C13/087,G21C13/093,G21C17/112
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CARVAJAL, JORGE V.
STAFFORD, SHAWN C.
Amdt, Jeffrey L.
Schimidt, Justin P.
Sirianni, Paul M.
Metzger, Kathryn E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74039339
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dry Cask Storage System Having Detection Apparatus
</title>

<abstract>
A dry cask storage system for spent nuclear fuel includes a detection apparatus having a resonant electrical circuit, with resonant electrical circuit being situated within an interior region of a metallic vessel wherein the SNF is situated. The detection apparatus includes a transmitter that generates an excitation pulse that causes the resonant circuit to resonate and to generate a response pulse. The resonant circuit includes an inductor that is formed with a core whose magnetic permeability varies with temperature such that the frequency of the resonant circuit varies as a function of temperature. The response pulse is then used to determine the temperature within the interior of the vessel where the SNF is situated. Pressure detection is also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A dry cask storage system (DCSS) structured to contain therein an amount of spent nuclear fuel (SNF), the DCSS comprising: a vessel having a wall that is formed of a metallic material and that is formed to have a first interior region, the first interior region being structured to receive therein the SNF; a overpack that is formed of a cementitious material and that is formed to have a second interior region, the vessel being received in the second interior region; a detection apparatus that is cooperable with an electronic processing apparatus that is situated outside of the DCSS, the detection apparatus comprising a transmitter, an electrical circuit apparatus, and a receiver; the transmitter being positioned inside the second interior region and outside the vessel and being structured to generate an excitation pulse and to transmit the excitation pulse through the wall and into the first interior region; the electrical circuit apparatus having a resonant electrical circuit that is situated within the first interior region and that is structured to generate a response pulse in response to the excitation pulse and to transmit the response pulse in the form of a magnetic field signal that is structured to travel from the first interior region and through the wall; the resonant electrical circuit comprising a plurality of circuit components, at least one circuit component of the plurality of circuit components having a property which is structured to vary in response to a condition within the first interior region and which, responsive to a change in the condition, is structured to cause the property and the response pulse to vary with the change in the condition and to be indicative of the condition; and the receiver being situated inside the second interior region and outside the vessel, the receiver being structured to receive the response pulse and to communicate to the electronic processing apparatus an output responsive to the response pulse.
2. The DCSS of claim 1 wherein the plurality of circuit components comprise an inductor having an inductance which is structured to vary in response to the condition and which, responsive to the change in the condition, is structured to cause the response pulse to have a frequency that varies with the condition.
3. The DCSS of claim 2 wherein the first interior region has temperature, the inductor having a core that has a permeability that is structured to vary in response to the temperature and which, responsive to a change in the temperature, is structured to undergo a change in its permeability to alter the inductance and to resultantly cause the response pulse to have a frequency that varies with the temperature.
4. The DCSS of claim 1 wherein the receiver is structured to receive the excitation pulse from the transmitter prior to receiving the response pulse from the electrical circuit apparatus, and wherein the detection apparatus further comprises a gating circuit that is structured to attenuate from the output a portion of the output that is responsive to the excitation pulse.
5. The DCSS of claim 4 wherein the gating circuit is switchable between an OFF condition wherein it attenuates from the output the portion of the output that is responsive to the excitation pulse and an ON condition a predetermined period of time after the generation of the excitation pulse wherein the gating circuit ceases attenuation of the output.
6. The DCSS of claim 1 wherein: the detection apparatus further comprises another transmitter, another electrical circuit apparatus, and another receiver; the another transmitter being positioned inside the second interior region and outside the vessel and being structured to generate another excitation pulse subsequent to the generation of the excitation pulse and to transmit the another excitation pulse through the wall and into the first interior region; the another electrical circuit apparatus having another resonant electrical circuit that is situated within the first interior region and that is structured to generate another response pulse in response to the another excitation pulse and to transmit the another response pulse in the form of another magnetic field signal that is structured to travel from the first interior region and through the wall; and the another receiver situated inside the second interior region and outside the vessel, the another receiver being structured to receive the another response pulse and to communicate to the electronic processing apparatus another output responsive to the response pulse.
7. The DCSS of claim 1 wherein: the detection apparatus further comprises another electrical circuit apparatus; the another electrical circuit apparatus having another resonant electrical circuit that is situated within the first interior region and that is structured to generate another response pulse in response to the excitation pulse and to transmit the another response pulse in the form of another magnetic field signal that is structured to travel from the first interior region and through the wall; and the receiver being structured to receive both the response pulse and the another response pulse and to communicate to the electronic processing apparatus as the output an output signal that is responsive to the response pulse and the another response pulse.
8. The DCSS of claim 7 wherein the transmitter includes a transmitter antenna, and wherein the receiver includes a receiver antenna, at least one of the transmitter antenna and the receiver antenna comprising a number of windings that are of an annular configuration that extend about a portion of the vessel.
9. The DCSS of claim 7 wherein the transmitter includes a transmitter antenna, and wherein the receiver includes a receiver antenna, the transmitter antenna comprising a number of first windings that are of an annular configuration, and the receiver antenna comprising a number of second windings that are of an annular configuration.
10. The DCSS of claim 9 wherein the number of first windings and the number of second windings circumscribe a portion of the vessel.
11. The DCSS of claim 9 wherein the resonant electrical circuit and the another resonant electrical circuit are both situated one of within and adjacent the portion of the vessel circumscribed by the number of first windings and the number of second windings.
12. The DCSS of claim 9 wherein the number of first windings circumscribe a first portion of the vessel, and wherein the number of second windings circumscribe a second portion of the vessel, the resonant electrical circuit and the another resonant electrical circuit being situated within at least one of the first portion of the vessel and the second portion of the vessel.
13. The DCSS of claim 1 wherein the detection apparatus comprises a pressure transmission apparatus that is structured to output as the response pulse a pulse that is indicative of an ambient pressure within the first interior region.
14. The DCSS of claim 1 wherein the plurality of circuit components comprise a capacitor whose capacitance varies with ambient pressure within the first interior region, and wherein the resonant electrical circuit is structured to output as the response pulse a pulse that is indicative of an ambient pressure within the first interior region.
</claims>
</document>
