<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G06F3/0484,G06F40/205,G06F40/30,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEMMENGATH, SANEEM
JAIN, PARAG
KRISHNAN, SARAVANAN
LAHA, ANIRBAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70280833
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Script modification
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for script modification are provided including receiving a script and parsing the script to identify at least one attribute of the script. The identified at least one attribute is presented to a user in a graphical user interface via a display device and an adjustment of at least one element in the graphical user interface that corresponds to the at least one attribute is received from the user via an input device. Modification data corresponding to the at least one attribute are received from a data repository and at least one attribute of the script is modified based on the received adjustment and the obtained modification data corresponding to the at least one attribute. A modified script is generated based on the modified at least one attribute.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising steps of: receiving a script; parsing the script to identify at least one attribute of the script; presenting the identified at least one attribute to a user in a graphical user interface via a display device; receiving, from the user via an input device, an adjustment of at least one element in the graphical user interface that corresponds to the at least one attribute; receiving, from a data repository, modification data corresponding to the at least one attribute; modifying the at least one attribute of the script based on (i) the received adjustment and (ii) the obtained modification data corresponding to the at least one attribute; and generating a modified script based on the modified at least one attribute; wherein the steps are carried out by at least one computing device.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said parsing the script comprises segmenting the script into at least one scene.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said identifying the at least one attribute comprises identifying a list of characters included in the script.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the modification data comprise a plurality of alternative characters; and wherein said modifying the at least one attribute comprises replacing the identified at least one of the characters in the list of characters with at least one of the alternative characters based on the received adjustment.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein said identifying the at least one attribute comprises identifying utterances in the script associated with each identified character; wherein the modification data comprise a plurality of utterance modifiers; and wherein said modifying the at least one attribute comprises modifying at least one of the identified utterances by applying at least one of the utterance modifiers to the at least one of the identified utterances based on the received adjustment.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein said modifying the at least one attribute comprises modifying the at least one of the identified utterances by sequentially applying two or more of the utterance modifiers to the at least one of the identified utterances based on the received adjustment.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein said identifying the at least one attribute comprises identifying a character property associated with a given character of the identified list of characters; wherein the received adjustment of the at least one element comprises the selection of a change to the character property associated with the given character; and wherein said modifying the at least one attribute comprises modifying the at least one of the identified utterances based on the selected change to the character property associated with the given character.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein said identifying the at least one attribute comprises identifying a target of the at least one of the identified utterances; and wherein said modifying the at least one attribute comprises modifying the at least one of the identified utterances by applying the at least one of the utterance modifiers to the at least one of the identified utterances based on the identified target.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said identifying the at least one attribute comprises identifying an era for at least a portion of the script; wherein the received adjustment of the at least one element comprises the selection of an era different than the identified era; wherein the modification data comprise a plurality of era modifiers for a plurality of eras, and wherein said modifying the at least one attribute comprises applying at least one of the era modifiers corresponding to the selected era to adjust attributes of the script to correspond to the selected era.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said identifying the at least one attribute comprises identifying a location for at least a portion of the script; wherein the received adjustment of the at least one element comprises the selection of a location different than the identified location; wherein the modification data comprise a plurality of location modifiers for a plurality of locations; and wherein said modifying the at least one attribute comprises applying at least one of the location modifiers corresponding to the selected location to adjust attributes of the script to correspond to the selected location.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said identifying the at least one attribute comprises identifying a context for at least a portion of the script, wherein the received adjustment of the at least one element comprises the selection of a context different than the identified context; wherein the modification data comprise a plurality of context modifiers for a plurality of contexts; and wherein said modifying the at least one attribute comprises applying at least one of the context modifiers corresponding to the selected context to adjust attributes of the script to correspond to the selected context.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the identified context comprises a language; wherein the selection of a context different than the identified context comprises the selection of a language different than the language of the identified context; and wherein said applying the at least one of the context modifiers corresponding to the selected context to adjust attributes of the script comprises translating at least a portion of the script into the selected language.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said identifying the at least one attribute comprises identifying a backdrop for at least a portion of the script; wherein the received adjustment of the at least one element comprises the selection of a backdrop different than the identified backdrop; wherein the modification data comprise a plurality of backdrop modifiers for a plurality of backdrops, and wherein said modifying the at least one attribute comprises applying at least one of the backdrop modifiers corresponding to the selected backdrop to adjust attributes of the script to correspond to the selected backdrop.
14. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to: receive a script; parse the script to identify at least one attribute of the script; present the identified at least one attribute to a user in a graphical user interface via a display device; receive, from the user via an input device, an adjustment of at least one element in the graphical user interface that corresponds to the at least one attribute; receive, from a data repository, modification data corresponding to the at least one attribute; modify the at least one attribute of the script based on (i) the received adjustment and (ii) the obtained modification data corresponding to the at least one attribute; and generate a modified script based on the modified at least one attribute.
15. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein said identifying the at least one attribute comprises identifying a list of characters included in the script.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the modification data comprise a plurality of alternative characters; and wherein said modifying the at least one attribute comprises replacing the identified at least one of the characters in the list of characters with at least one of the alternative characters based on the received adjustment.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein said identifying the at least one attribute comprises identifying utterances in the script associated with each identified character; wherein the modification data comprise a plurality of utterance modifiers; and wherein said modifying the at least one attribute comprises modifying at least one of the identified utterances by applying at least one of the utterance modifiers to the at least one of the identified utterances based on the received adjustment.
18. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein said identifying the at least one attribute comprises identifying an era for at least a portion of the script; wherein the received adjustment of the at least one element comprises the selection of an era different than the identified era; wherein the modification data comprise a plurality of era modifiers for a plurality of eras; and wherein said modifying the at least one attribute comprises applying at least one of the era modifiers corresponding to the selected era to adjust attributes of the script to correspond to the selected era.
19. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein said identifying the at least one attribute comprises identifying a location for at least a portion of the script; wherein the received adjustment of the at least one element comprises the selection of a location different than the identified location; wherein the modification data comprise a plurality of location modifiers for a plurality of locations; and wherein said modifying the at least one attribute comprises applying at least one of the location modifiers corresponding to the selected location to adjust attributes of the script to correspond to the selected location.
20. A system comprising: a memory; and at least one processor operably coupled to the memory and configured for: receiving a script; parsing the script to identify at least one attribute of the script; presenting the identified at least one attribute to a user in a graphical user interface via a display device; receiving, from the user via an input device, an adjustment of at least one element in the graphical user interface that corresponds to the at least one attribute; receiving, from a data repository, modification data corresponding to the at least one attribute; modifying the at least one attribute of the script based on (i) the received adjustment and (ii) the obtained modification data corresponding to the at least one attribute; and generating a modified script based on the modified at least one attribute.
</claims>
</document>
