<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06F3/16,G06F9/451,G06K9/00,G08C17/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAKIR, GOKHAN H.
BADR, IBRAHIM
KEHL, ROLAND PETER
Grimsmo, Nils
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67108213
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Identifying and Controlling Smart Devices
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus for controlling smart devices are described. In one aspect a method includes receiving image data for an image captured by a camera of a mobile device of a user and determining that the image depicts at least one of a smart device or a physical control for the smart device. In response to determining that that the image depicts a smart device or a physical control for the smart device, identifying one or more user interface controls for controlling the smart device, and generating and presenting, at a display of the mobile device, the one or more user interface controls for controlling the smart device. The method can further include detecting, at the display of the mobile device, user interaction with at least one of the one or more user interface controls, and controlling the smart device based on the detected user interaction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A computer-implemented method performed by one or more data processing apparatus, the method comprising: receiving, by the one or more data processing apparatus, image data for an image captured by a camera of a mobile device of a user; determining, by the one or more data processing apparatus based on the image data, that the image depicts a smart device; obtaining, by the one or more data processing apparatus, a registration file of the smart device that indicates the smart device is not registered with the mobile device of the user, the registration file comprising smart device identification data and smart device control data; sending, by the one or more data processing apparatus based on the smart device identification data, user device identification data to the smart device; and storing, by the one or more data processing apparatus, the registration file to register the mobile device of the user to the smart device.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein sending, by the one or more data processing apparatus based on the smart device identification data, the user device identification data to the smart device further comprises sending, by the one or more data processing apparatus, the user device identification data to a second smart device communicatively coupled to the smart device.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 22, further comprising sending, by the one or more data processing apparatus, the registration file to the second smart device communicatively coupled to the smart device to register the smart device with the second smart device.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 23, wherein the second smart device comprises a virtual assistant control device.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein determining, by the one or more data processing apparatus based on the image data, that the image depicts the smart device further comprises determining, by the one or more data processing apparatus, that the mobile device of the user is located within a registration distance of the smart device.
26. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the mobile device of the user and the smart device are communicatively coupled via a wireless network.
27. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: providing, by the one or more data processing apparatus, one or more user interface controls for display at the mobile device of the user, wherein the one or more user interface controls are based at least in part on the smart device control data; in response to providing the one or more user interface controls, receiving, by the one or more data processing apparatus, data indicative of a user interaction with at least one of the one or more user interface controls; and controlling, by the one or more data processing apparatus, the smart device based at least in part on the data indicative of the user interaction with the at least one of the one or more user interface controls.
28. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein determining, by the one or more data processing apparatus based on the image data, that the image depicts the smart device further comprises establishing, by the one or more data processing apparatus, a communicative network connection between the smart device and the user device.
29. A computing system, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more tangible, non-transitory computer readable media storing computer-readable instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving image data for an image captured by a camera of a mobile device of a user; determining, based on the image data, that the image depicts a smart device; obtaining a registration file of the smart device that indicates the smart device is not registered with the mobile device of the user, the registration file comprising smart device identification data and smart device control data; sending, based on the smart device identification data, user device identification data to the smart device; and storing the registration file to register the mobile device of the user to the smart device.
30. The computing system of claim 29, wherein sending, based on the smart device identification data, the user device identification data to the smart device further comprises sending the user device identification data to a second smart device communicatively coupled to the smart device.
31. The computing system of claim 30, wherein the operations further comprise sending the registration file to the second smart device communicatively coupled to the smart device to register the smart device with the second smart device.
32. The computing system of claim 31, wherein the second smart device comprises a virtual assistant control device.
33. The computing system of claim 29, wherein determining, based on the image data, that the image depicts the smart device further comprises determining that the mobile device of the user is located within a registration distance of the smart device.
34. The computing system of claim 29, wherein the mobile device of the user and the smart device are communicatively coupled via a wireless network.
35. The computing system of claim 29, wherein the operations further comprise: providing one or more user interface controls for display at the mobile device of the user, wherein the one or more user interface controls are based at least in part on the smart device control data; in response to providing the one or more user interface controls, receiving data indicative of a user interaction with at least one of the one or more user interface controls; and controlling the smart device based at least in part on the data indicative of the user interaction with the at least one of the one or more user interface controls.
36. The computing system of claim 29, wherein determining, based on the image data, that the image depicts the smart device further comprises establishing a communicative network connection between the smart device and the user device.
37. One or more tangible, non-transitory computer readable media storing computer-readable instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving image data for an image captured by a camera of a mobile device of a user; determining, based on the image data, that the image depicts a smart device; obtaining a registration file of the smart device that indicates the smart device is not registered with the mobile device of the user, the registration file comprising smart device identification data and smart device control data; sending, based on the smart device identification data, user device identification data to the smart device; and storing the registration file to register the mobile device of the user to the smart device.
38. The one or more tangible, non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 37, wherein sending, based on the smart device identification data, the user device identification data to the smart device further comprises sending the user device identification data to a second smart device communicatively coupled to the smart device.
39. The one or more tangible, non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 38, wherein the operations further comprise sending the registration file to the second smart device communicatively coupled to the smart device to register the smart device with the second smart device.
40. The one or more tangible, non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 39, wherein the second smart device comprises a virtual assistant control device.
</claims>
</document>
