<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,H04R25/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GN HEARING
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOLEY, JONATHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72748461
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HEARING DEVICES WITH EYE MOVEMENT DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
A hearing device includes: a sensor configured for placement in an ear canal of a user of the hearing device, the sensor configured to provide a sensor signal; a processing unit coupled to the sensor; and a receiver coupled to the processing unit, wherein the receiver is configured to provide an audio output; wherein the processing unit is configured to determine a presence of eye-movement related eardrum oscillation based at least in part on the sensor signal. The detected eye-movement related eardrum oscillations may be used to change a processing in the hearing device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A hearing device comprising: a sensor configured for placement in an ear canal of a user of the hearing device, the sensor configured to provide a sensor signal; a processing unit coupled to the sensor; and a receiver coupled to the processing unit, wherein the receiver is configured to provide an audio output; wherein the processing unit is configured to determine a presence of eye-movement related eardrum oscillation based at least in part on the sensor signal.
2. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises a microphone, and the sensor signal comprises a microphone output, and wherein the processing unit is configured to determine whether there is eye-movement-related eardrum or not based at least in part on the microphone output.
3. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises a transducer, and the sensor signal comprises a transducer output, and wherein the processing unit is configured to determine whether there is eye-movement-related eardrum or not based at least in part on the transducer output.
4. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises an optical sensor, and the sensor signal comprises an optical sensor signal, and wherein the processing unit is configured to determine whether there is eye-movement-related eardrum or not based at least in part on the optical sensor signal.
5. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is configured to change a sound processing if the processing unit determines that there is eye-movement related eardrum oscillation.
6. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is configured to change a beam-forming if the processing unit determines that there is eye-movement related eardrum oscillation.
7. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is configured to change a microphone mode if the processing unit determines that there is eye-movement related eardrum oscillation.
8. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the hearing device has at least a first mode and a second mode, and wherein the processing unit is configured to switch from the first mode to the second mode, or from the second mode to the first mode, if the processing unit determines that there is eye-movement related eardrum oscillation.
9. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the hearing device has at least a first mode and a second mode; wherein in the first mode, the processing unit is configured to process a first wireless signal from a first source; wherein in the second mode, the processing unit is configured to process a second wireless signal from a second source; and wherein the hearing device is configured to switch from the first mode to the second mode, or from the second mode to the first mode, based at least in part on the sensor signal.
10. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the hearing device has at least a first mode and a second mode; wherein in the first mode, the processing unit is configured to process a first wireless signal from a first source; wherein in the second mode, the processing unit is configured to process a microphone signal; and wherein the hearing device is configured to switch from the first mode to the second mode, or from the second mode to the first mode, based at least in part on the sensor signal.
11. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the hearing device has at least a first mode and a second mode; wherein in the first mode, the processing unit is configured to mix a first wireless signal from a first source with a microphone signal; wherein in the second mode, the processing unit is configured to mix a second wireless signal from a second source with the microphone signal; and wherein the hearing device is configured to switch from the first mode to the second mode, or from the second mode to the first mode, based at least in part on the sensor signal.
12. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the hearing device has at least a first mode and a second mode; wherein in the first mode, the processing unit is configured to mix a first microphone signal corresponding to a first sound source with a wireless signal from a wireless signal source; wherein in the second mode, the processing unit is configured to mix a second microphone signal corresponding to a second sound source with the wireless signal from the wireless signal source; and wherein the hearing device is configured to switch from the first mode to the second mode, or from the second mode to the first mode, based at least in part on the sensor signal.
13. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the hearing device has at least a first mode and a second mode; wherein in the first mode, the processing unit is configured to amplify a first wireless signal from a first wireless signal source more than a second wireless signal from a second wireless signal source; wherein in the second mode, the processing unit is configured to amplify the second wireless signal from the second wireless signal source more than the first wireless signal from the first wireless signal source; and wherein the hearing device is configured to switch from the first mode to the second mode, or from the second mode to the first mode, based at least in part on the sensor signal.
14. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is also configured to determine a direction of eye movement based at least in part on the sensor signal.
15. The hearing device of claim 14, wherein the processing unit is configured to change a beam-forming direction of a beam-formed signal that corresponds with the direction of the eye movement.
16. The hearing device of claim 14, wherein the processing unit is also configured to estimate an angle of the eye movement based at least in part on the sensor signal.
17. The hearing device of claim 1, further comprising a non-transitory medium storing a model that associates values of sensor waveform characteristic with respective eye positions.
18. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises a first microphone, and wherein the hearing device comprises a second microphone coupled to the receiver.
19. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is configured to remove a signal component in the sensor signal, wherein the signal component is contributed by sound output by the receiver.
20. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is configured to remove noise from the sensor signal to isolate a signal component that corresponds with the eye-movement related eardrum oscillation.
21. The hearing device of claim 1, further comprising a frequency filter configured to filter out a part of the sensor signal having a frequency that is 60 Hz or higher.
22. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the processing unit comprises a hearing loss compensation module and a sensor signal processing module.
23. The hearing device of claim 1, further comprising a hearing loss compensation module coupled to the receiver.
24. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is configured to identify eye-movement related eardrum oscillation before occurrence of eye-movement.
25. The hearing device of claim 24, wherein the processing unit is configured to identify the eye-movement related eardrum oscillation 2 ms or more before the occurrence of the eye-movement.
26. The hearing device of claim 1, further comprising a transceiver configured to wirelessly transmit information derived from the sensor signal to an external device.
27. The hearing device of claim 26, wherein the external device comprises another hearing device.
28. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the sensor is in an earpiece, and wherein the earpiece is configured to form a seal with respect to the ear canal.
29. The hearing device of claim 1, further comprising a non-transitory medium storing information related to the sensor signal.
30. The hearing device of claim 29, wherein the information related to the sensor signal comprises a model correlating sensor signal values with eye movement.
31. The hearing device of claim 29, wherein the information related to the sensor signal comprises logged data regarding the sensor signal, eye movement, hearing device mode, or any combination of the above.
32. A hearing device comprising: a sensor configured for placement in an ear canal of a user of the hearing device, the sensor configured to provide a sensor signal indicating eye-movement related eardrum oscillation; a processing unit coupled to the sensor, wherein the processing unit is configured to provide an output signal based at least in part on the sensor signal indicating eye-movement related eardrum oscillation; and a receiver coupled to the processing unit, wherein the receiver is configured to provide an audio output based at least in part on the output signal.
33. The hearing device of claim 32, wherein the hearing device has at least a first mode and a second mode; and wherein the processing unit is configured to select the first mode, or the second mode, based at least in part on the sensor signal indicating eye-movement related eardrum oscillation.
34. The hearing device of claim 33, wherein the first mode of the hearing device has a first sound processing, and the second mode of the hearing device has a second sound processing.
35. The hearing device of claim 33, wherein the first mode of the hearing device has a first beam-forming, and the second mode of the hearing device has a second beam-forming.
36. The hearing device of claim 33, wherein the first mode of the hearing device comprises a first microphone mode, and the second mode of the hearing device comprises a second microphone mode.
37. The hearing device of claim 33, wherein, when the hearing device is in the first mode, the processing unit is configured to process a first wireless signal from a first source; and wherein, when the hearing device is in the second mode, the processing unit is configured to process a second wireless signal from a second source.
38. The hearing device of claim 33, wherein, when the hearing device is in the first mode, the processing unit is configured to process a first wireless signal from a first source; and wherein, when the hearing device is in the second mode, the processing unit is configured to process a microphone signal.
39. The hearing device of claim 33, wherein, when the hearing device is in the first mode, the processing unit is configured to mix a first wireless signal from a first source with a microphone signal; and wherein, when the hearing device is in the second mode, the processing unit is configured to mix a second wireless signal from a second source with the microphone signal.
40. The hearing device of claim 33, wherein, when the hearing device is in the first mode, the processing unit is configured to mix a first microphone signal corresponding to a first sound source with a wireless signal from a wireless signal source; and wherein, when the hearing device is in the second mode, the processing unit is configured to mix a second microphone signal corresponding to a second sound source with the wireless signal from the wireless signal source.
41. The hearing device of claim 40, wherein the processing unit is configured to mix the first microphone signal or the second microphone signal with the wireless signal in a proportion corresponding at least in part to the sensor signal indicating eye-movement related eardrum oscillation.
42. The hearing device of claim 33, wherein, when the hearing device is in the first mode, the processing unit is configured to amplify a first wireless signal from a first wireless signal source more than a second wireless signal from a second wireless signal source; and wherein, when the hearing device is in the second mode, the processing unit is configured to amplify the second wireless signal from the second wireless signal source more than the first wireless signal from the first wireless signal source.
43. A hearing device comprising: a sensor configured for placement in an ear canal of a user of the hearing device, the sensor configured to sense a characteristic caused by a movement of an eardrum, and to provide a sensor signal; a processing unit coupled to the sensor; and a receiver coupled to the processing unit, wherein the receiver is configured to provide an audio output; wherein the processing unit is configured to provide an input output for the receiver based at least in part on the sensor signal.
44. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the sensor is configured to sense a characteristic caused by a movement of an eardrum, wherein the sensor signal indicates the eye-movement related eardrum oscillation, and wherein the processing unit is configured to provide an output for the receiver based at least in part on the sensor signal indicating the eye-movement related eardrum oscillation.
</claims>
</document>
