<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/89,G01S7/41
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUALCOMM
</assignee>

<inventors>
BI, NING
QI, YINGYONG
SARKIS, MICHEL ADIB
SANDEROVICH, AMICHAI
HEMO, EVYATAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69162382
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OBJECT VERIFICATION USING RADAR IMAGES
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques and systems are provided for performing object verification using radar images. For example, a first radar image and a second radar image are obtained, and features are extracted from the first radar image and the second radar image. A similarity is determined between an object represented by the first radar image and an object represented by the second radar image based on the features extracted from the first radar image and the features extracted from the second radar image. A determined similarity between these two sets of features is used to determine whether the object represented by the first radar image matches the object represented by the second radar image. Distances between the features in the two radar images can optionally also be compared and used to determine object similarity. The objects in the radar images may optionally be faces.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of performing object verification using radar images, the method comprising: obtaining a first radar image and a second radar image; extracting features from the first radar image; extracting features from the second radar image; determining a similarity between an object represented by the first radar image and an object represented by the second radar image based on the features extracted from the first radar image and the features extracted from the second radar image; and determining whether the object represented by the first radar image matches the object represented by the second radar image based on the determined similarity.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first radar image and the second radar image are generated using signals from an array of antennas.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein each pixel in the first radar image corresponds to at least one antenna from the array of antennas, and wherein each pixel in the second radar image corresponds to at least one antenna from the array of antennas.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a distance between the features from the first radar image and the features from the second radar image; and determining the similarity between the object represented by the first radar image and the object represented by the second radar image based on the determined distance.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the features extracted from the first radar image include at least an amplitude and a phase for each pixel in the first radar image, and wherein the features extracted from the second radar image include at least an amplitude and a phase for each pixel in the second radar image.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the features extracted from the first radar image further include at least a magnitude for each pixel in the first radar image, the magnitude calculated based on the amplitude and the phase of each pixel in the first radar image, and wherein the features extracted from the second radar image further include at least a magnitude for each pixel in the second radar image.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the distance between the features from the first radar image and the features from the second radar image includes: determining a distance between the amplitude for each pixel in the first radar image and the amplitude for each pixel in the second radar image; and determining a distance between the phase for each pixel in the first radar image and the phase for each pixel in the second radar image.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein determining the distance between the features from the first radar image and the features from the second radar image further includes: determining a distance between a magnitude for each pixel in the first radar image and a magnitude for each pixel in the second radar image, the magnitude for each pixel based on the amplitude for the pixel and the phase for the pixel.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least an amplitude and a phase are extracted for each range bin of a plurality of range bins corresponding to each pixel in the first radar image, and wherein at least an amplitude and a phase are extracted for each range bin of a plurality of range bins corresponding to each pixel in the second radar image.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein a magnitude is extracted for each range bin of the plurality of range bins corresponding to each pixel in the first radar image, and wherein a magnitude is extracted for each range bin of the plurality of range bins corresponding to each pixel in the second radar image.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the similarity between the object represented by the first radar image and the object represented by the second radar image is determined using a mapping function between matching labels and distances between the features from the first radar image and the features from the second radar image.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the mapping function is determined using a support vector machine (SVM).
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the mapping function is determined using a support vector machine (SVM) and principal component analysis (PCA).
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the mapping function is determined using a Partial Least Squares Regression (PLSR).
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the mapping function is determined using a deep neural network.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the object represented by the first radar image is determined to match the object represented by the second radar image when the determined similarity is greater than a pre-determined matching threshold.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the object represented by the first radar image is determined not to match the object represented by the second radar image when the determined similarity is less than a pre-determined matching threshold.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the first radar image is an input image obtained from a radar measurement device, and wherein the second radar image is an enrolled image from an enrolled database.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein the object represented by the first radar image is a first face, and wherein the object represented by the second radar image is a second face.
20. An apparatus for performing object verification using radar images, comprising: a memory configured to store one or more radar images; and a processor configured to: obtain a first radar image and a second radar image; extract features from the first radar image; extract features from the second radar image; determining a similarity between an object represented by the first radar image and an object represented by the second radar image based on the features extracted from the first radar image and the features extracted from the second radar image; and determine whether the object represented by the first radar image matches the object represented by the second radar image based on the determined similarity.
21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the first radar image and the second radar image are generated using signals from an array of antennas.
22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein each pixel in the first radar image corresponds to at least one antenna from the array of antennas, and wherein each pixel in the second radar image corresponds to at least one antenna from the array of antennas.
23. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the processor is configured to: determine a distance between the features from the first radar image and the features from the second radar image; and determine the similarity between the object represented by the first radar image and the object represented by the second radar image based on the determined distance.
24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the features extracted from the first radar image include at least an amplitude and a phase for each pixel in the first radar image, and wherein the features extracted from the second radar image include at least an amplitude and a phase for each pixel in the second radar image.
25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the features extracted from the first radar image further include at least a magnitude for each pixel in the first radar image, the magnitude calculated based on the amplitude and the phase of each pixel in the first radar image, and wherein the features extracted from the second radar image further include at least a magnitude for each pixel in the second radar image.
26. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein determining the distance between the features from the first radar image and the features from the second radar image includes: determining a distance between the amplitude for each pixel in the first radar image and the amplitude for each pixel in the second radar image; and determining a distance between the phase for each pixel in the first radar image and the phase for each pixel in the second radar image.
27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein determining the distance between the features from the first radar image and the features from the second radar image further includes: determining a distance between a magnitude for each pixel in the first radar image and a magnitude for each pixel in the second radar image, the magnitude for each pixel based on the amplitude for the pixel and the phase for the pixel.
28. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein at least an amplitude and a phase are extracted for each range bin of a plurality of range bins corresponding to each pixel in the first radar image, and wherein at least an amplitude and a phase are extracted for each range bin of a plurality of range bins corresponding to each pixel in the second radar image.
29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein a magnitude is extracted for each range bin of the plurality of range bins corresponding to each pixel in the first radar image, and wherein a magnitude is extracted for each range bin of the plurality of range bins corresponding to each pixel in the second radar image.
30. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the similarity between the object represented by the first radar image and the object represented by the second radar image is determined using a mapping function between matching labels and distances between the features from the first radar image and the features from the second radar image.
</claims>
</document>
