<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/23,G06F16/25,G06F16/901,G06F16/904,G06N5/02,G06Q10/06,G06Q50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHANMUGAM, SRINIVASAN
RAGAVAN, HARISH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017833
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Big Data Based Predictive Graph Generation System
</title>

<abstract>
A big data analysis system may include a big data repository communicatively coupled to a data accumulation server and a predictive graph processing system. The data accumulation server may be configured to receive information from a plurality of data sources, the information corresponding to user interaction with one or more computing devices associated with an organization via a networked computing system, store the information received from the plurality of sources in the big data repository; and monitor the plurality of data sources to update the data stored in the big data repository. The predictive graph processing system is configured to receive information stored in the big data repository, transform the information received from the big data repository into a predictive graph data set based on a predictive model, and store the predictive graph data set to a visualization data repository.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Computer-readable media, storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause a computing device to: access, via a communication interface, information stored in a big data repository, wherein the information is stored in the big data repository by a data accumulation service; update, in near real time, the data stored in the big data repository into an updated data set based on at least one change in data identified at a data source of a plurality of data sources, wherein the plurality of data sources comprises a social media network; transform the information received from the big data repository into a predictive graph data set based on a predictive model, wherein the predictive model comprises one of a static model or a dynamic model; predict, based on the update to the data stored in the big data repository, at least a first semantic relationship between at least two objects of the updated data set using the predictive model, wherein the predictive graph data set comprises a vertices table and an edge table and wherein each edge stored in edge table represents a semantic relationship between two vertices; generate, based on the predictive graph data set, a predictive graph visualization for presentation at a user device in response to a request received at computing device; and communicate the predictive graph visualization to a display device for display to a user; and receive, via an input device, an input from a user corresponding to user interaction with the predictive graph visualization comprising one of a desired action to be performed based on the predictive graph data set or an update to the predictive graph data set.
2. The computer readable media of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the computing device to: update, by the data accumulation service, the information stored in the big data repository in near real time.
3. The computer readable media of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the computing device to: update, by the data accumulation service, the information stored in the big data repository in response to a data change.
4. The computer readable media of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the computing device to: select, by the computing device, one of a static predictive model and a dynamic predictive model.
5. The computer readable media of claim 1, wherein a static predictive model comprises a big table format comprising a plurality of inputs, a plurality of outputs and organization metrics data.
6. The computer readable media of claim 1, wherein the predictive model comprises one of a regression model or a machine learning algorithm.
7. The computer readable media of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the computing device to: transform, by the computing device, the information received from the big data repository into a predictive graph data set based on the predictive model in near real time.
8. The computer readable media of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the computing device to: generate, by the computing device, a predictive graph visualization for presentation using the user device in response to a request received at the computing device.
9. The computer readable media of claim 8, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the computing device to: communicate the predictive graph visualization to a display device for display to a user.
10. The computer readable media of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the computing device to: store, in a model repository, a first predictive model in a tabular representation, wherein input data received during processing result in a first predictive output corresponding to a static model; store, in the model repository, a second predictive model expressed in a form of a predictive function, wherein function input parameters, processed via the predictive function, result in a second predictive output corresponding to a dynamic predictive model; and generate, based on a specified one of the first predictive model or the second predictive model, the predictive data set on a periodic basis.
11. A predictive graph processing device, comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory memory device storing computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the predictive graph processing device to: receive, via a communication interface, information stored in a big data repository, wherein the information is stored in the big data repository by a data accumulation service and updated in near real time; update, the data stored in the big data repository into an updated data set based on at least one change in data identified at a data source of a plurality of data sources, wherein the plurality of data sources comprises a social media network; transform the information received from the big data repository into a predictive graph data set based on a predictive model, wherein the predictive model comprises one of a static model or a dynamic model; predict, based on the update to the data stored in the big data repository, at least a first semantic relationship between at least two objects of the updated data set using the predictive model; store the predictive graph data set to a visualization data repository, wherein the predictive graph data set comprises a vertices table and an edge table and wherein each edge stored in edge table represents a semantic relationship between two vertices; generate a predictive graph visualization for presentation at a user device in response to a request received at the predictive graph processing device; and communicate the predictive graph visualization to a display device for display to a user; and receive, via an input device, an input from a user corresponding to user interaction with the predictive graph visualization comprising one of an action to be performed based on the predictive graph data set or an update to the predictive graph data set.
12. The predictive graph processing device of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the computing device to: update, by the data accumulation service, the information stored in the big data repository in near real time.
13. The predictive graph processing device of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the computing device to: update, by the data accumulation service, the information stored in the big data repository in response to a data change.
14. The predictive graph processing device of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the computing device to: select, by the predictive graph processing device, one of a static predictive model and a dynamic predictive model.
15. The predictive graph processing device of claim 11, wherein a static predictive model comprises a big table format comprising a plurality of inputs, a plurality of outputs and organization metrics data.
16. The predictive graph processing device of claim 11, wherein the predictive model comprises one of a regression model or a machine learning algorithm.
17. The predictive graph processing device of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the computing device to: transform, by the predictive graph processing device, the information received from the big data repository into a predictive graph data set based on the predictive model in near real time.
18. The predictive graph processing device of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the computing device to: generate, by the predictive graph processing device, a predictive graph visualization for presentation using the user device in response to a request received at the predictive graph processing device.
19. The predictive graph processing device of claim 18, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the computing device to: communicate the predictive graph visualization to a display device for display to a user.
20. The predictive graph processing device of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the computing device to: store, in a model repository, a first predictive model in a tabular representation, wherein input data received during processing result in a first predictive output corresponding to a static model; store, in the model repository, a second predictive model expressed in a form of a predictive function, wherein function input parameters, processed via the predictive function, result in a second predictive output corresponding to a dynamic predictive model; and generate, based on a specified one of the first predictive model or the second predictive model, the predictive data set on a periodic basis.
</claims>
</document>
