<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/16,G06K19/077,G10L15/07,G10L15/22,G10L15/26,H04W4/021,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
IYER, VENKATRAMAN
HAHM, SEONGIL
KWON, TAEJUN
AN, DAESUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69229828
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC APPARATUS AND CONTROL METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic apparatus and method of controlling the electronic apparatus are provided. The electronic apparatus includes a communicator, a storage storing information on places wherein Internet of Things (IoT) devices are located, and a processor configured to, based on receiving a control signal for controlling an IoT device located in a specific place through the communicator, control the IoT device located in the specific place based on information on the place stored in the storage. The processor is further configured to receive motion information generated based on a motion of a wearable device from the wearable device, identify a place corresponding to the motion information, and store the identified place as information on a place of an IoT device located within a predetermined distance from the wearable device, in the storage.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic apparatus comprising: a communicator; a storage; and a processor configured to: receive motion information from a wearable device, the motion information being generated based on a motion of the wearable device, identify a location corresponding to the motion information, store the identified location as location information of an Internet of Things (IoT) device located within a predetermined distance from the wearable device, and based on receiving a control signal for controlling the IoT device located in a specific location through the communicator, control the IoT device located in the specific location based on the location information.
2. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the storage stores information on locations matched with each of a plurality of activities, and wherein the processor is further configured to: identify, based on the motion information, an activity of a user wearing the wearable device, the activity corresponding to the motion information, and identify, based on the identified activity and the information on locations matched with each of a plurality of activities, the location corresponding to the motion information.
3. The electronic apparatus of claim 2, wherein the processor is further configured to: based on identifying that there are a plurality of activities corresponding to the motion information, identify an activity corresponding to the motion information among the plurality of activities based on state information of a plurality of IoT devices located in locations matched with the plurality of identified activities.
4. The electronic apparatus of claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to: identify states of powers of the plurality of IoT devices located in the locations matched with the plurality of identified activities, identify an activity related to an IoT device of which power is in a turned-on state among the plurality of identified activities, and store location information of a location matched with the identified activity as information on the location of the IoT device, in the storage.
5. The electronic apparatus of claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to: identify states of powers of the plurality of IoT devices located in the locations matched with the plurality of identified activities and weights set for the plurality of IoT devices, identify an activity among the plurality of identified activities based on the states of the powers and the weights, and store location information of a location matched with the identified activity as information on the location of the IoT device, in the storage.
6. The electronic apparatus of claim 5, wherein the processor is further configured to: based on the powers of the plurality of IoT devices being in a turned-on state, store location information of a location matched with an activity related to an IoT device having a highest weight among the plurality of IoT devices based on the weights as information on the location of the IoT device, in the storage.
7. The electronic apparatus of claim 5, wherein the processor is further configured to: based on the powers of the plurality of IoT devices being in a turned-off state, or the powers of some IoT devices among the plurality of IoT devices being in a turned-on state and the powers of remaining IoT devices being in the turned-off state, adjust the weights set for the IoT devices of which the powers are in the turned-off state based on a time when the powers of the IoT devices of which the powers are in the turned-off state were turned off, and store location information of a location matched with an activity related to an IoT device having a highest weight among the plurality of IoT devices based on the weights as information on the location of the IoT device, in the storage.
8. The electronic apparatus of claim 2, wherein the processor is further configured to: based on identifying that there are a plurality of activities corresponding to the motion information, identify an activity corresponding to the motion information among the plurality of activities based on sound information of IoT devices received from the wearable device.
9. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: based on a voice command for controlling the IoT device located in the specific location being received, identify a characteristic of a voice of a user who uttered the voice command, based on identifying that a specific user uttered the voice command for controlling the IoT device located in the specific location for a number of times equal to or greater than a predetermined number of times, based on the characteristic of the voice, store the specific user by matching the user with the specific location, and based on the voice command for controlling the IoT device being received from the specific user, identify the specific location matched with the specific user among a plurality of locations having a same name, and control the IoT device according to the voice command.
10. The electronic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: based on identifying that the wearable device was located in the specific location for a time period equal to or greater than a predetermined time period, store the wearable device by matching the wearable device with the specific location, and based on a voice command for controlling the IoT device being received from the wearable device, identify the specific location matched with the wearable device among a plurality of locations having a same name, and control the IoT device according to the voice command.
11. A control method of an electronic apparatus comprising: receiving motion information from a wearable device, the motion information being generated based on a motion of the wearable device; identifying a location corresponding to the motion information; storing the identified location as location information of an Internet of Things (IoT) device located within a predetermined distance from the wearable device; receiving a control signal for controlling the IoT device located in a specific location; and controlling the IoT device located in the specific location based on the location information.
12. The control method of claim 11, wherein the identifying comprises: based on the motion information, identifying an activity of a user wearing the wearable device corresponding to the motion information, and based on the identified activity and information on locations matched with each of a plurality of activities, identifying the location corresponding to the motion information.
13. The control method of claim 12, wherein the identifying further comprises: based on identifying that there are a plurality of activities corresponding to the motion information, identifying an activity corresponding to the motion information among the plurality of activities based on state information of a plurality of IoT devices located in locations matched with the plurality of identified activities.
14. The control method of claim 13, wherein the storing comprises: identifying states of powers of the plurality of IoT devices located in the locations matched with the plurality of identified activities, identifying an activity related to an IoT device of which power is in a turned-on state among the plurality of identified activities, and storing location information of a location matched with the identified activity as information on the location of the IoT device.
15. The control method of claim 13, wherein the storing comprises: identifying states of powers of the plurality of IoT devices located in the locations matched with the plurality of identified activities and weights set for the plurality of IoT devices, identifying an activity among the plurality of identified activities based on the states of powers and the weights, and storing location information of a location matched with the identified activity as information on the location of the IoT device.
16. The control method of claim 15, wherein the storing further comprises: based on the powers of the plurality of IoT devices being in a turned-on state, storing location information of a location matched with an activity related to an IoT device having a highest weight among the plurality of IoT devices based on the weights as information on the location of the IoT device.
17. The control method of claim 15, wherein the storing further comprises: based on the powers of the plurality of IoT devices being in a turned-off state, or the powers of some IoT devices among the plurality of IoT devices being in a turned-on state and the powers of remaining IoT devices being in the turned-off state, adjusting the weights set for the IoT devices of which the powers are in the turned-off state based on a time when the powers of the IoT devices of which the powers are in the turned-off state were turned off, and storing location information of a location matched with an activity related to an IoT device having a highest weight among the plurality of IoT devices based on the weights as information on the location of the IoT device.
18. The control method of claim 12, wherein the identifying further comprises: based on identifying that there are a plurality of activities corresponding to the motion information, identifying an activity corresponding to the motion information among the plurality of activities based on sound information of IoT devices received from the wearable device.
19. The control method of claim 11, wherein the controlling comprises: based on a voice command for controlling the IoT device located in the specific location being received, identifying a characteristic of a voice of a user who uttered the voice command, based on identifying that a specific user uttered the voice command for controlling the IoT device located in the specific location for a number of times equal to or greater than a predetermined number of times, based on the characteristic of the voice, storing the specific user by matching the user with the specific location, and based on the voice command for controlling the IoT device being received from the specific user, identifying the specific location matched with the specific user among a plurality of locations having a same name, and controlling the IoT device according to the voice command.
20. The control method of claim 11, wherein the controlling comprises: based on identifying that the wearable device was located in the specific location for a time period equal to or greater than a predetermined time period, storing the wearable device by matching the wearable device with the specific location, and based on a voice command for controlling the IoT device being received from the wearable device, identifying the specific location matched with the wearable device among a plurality of locations having a same name, and controlling the IoT device according to the voice command.
</claims>
</document>
