<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/541,G01N33/543,G01N33/574,G16B40/10,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EDP BIOTECH CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIGGETT, JASON L.
FRITSCHE, HERBERT A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67441688
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
KITS AND METHODS FOR DETECTING MARKERS
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure provides kits and methods for detecting markers in a sample from a subject with unknown status and generating a risk assessment of the presence or absence of cancer, such as colorectal cancer. In embodiments, a kit comprises at least four reagents, each specifically binding to one of at least four polypeptides in a sample from the subject. The polypeptides include GDF15, keratin 1-10, and two or more of hepsin, IL-8, CEA, L1CAM, MCP-1, and OPG. The kit further includes at least one standard comprising a known amount of at least one of the polypeptides. The kit can also include computer readable media comprising instructions to analyze the detected amounts of the at least four polypeptides using a machine learning algorithm to determine whether a subject has an increased risk of the presence of colorectal cancer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A kit for detecting one or more markers in a subject of an unknown status comprising: at least four reagents, each of the four reagents specifically binds to one of a plurality of polypeptides in a sample from the subject, the plurality of polypeptides comprising GDF15, keratin 1-10, and two or more of hepsin, IL-8, CEA, L1CAM, MCP-1, and OPG; and at least one standard comprising a known amount of one of the polypeptides.
2. The kit of claim 1, further comprising one or more non-transitory computer-readable media having computer-executable instructions embodied thereon that, when executed by one or more computing devices, cause the computing devices to: receive the detected amount of each of the polypeptides; retrieve a coefficient for each of the detected amounts of each of the polypeptides from a database; multiply each of the detected amounts of the polypeptides by the corresponding coefficient to generate a weighted level for each of the polypeptides; analyze the combination of weighted levels for each polypeptide with a machine learning model to determine the probability that the subject has colorectal cancer based on a change or lack thereof from a combination of predetermined weighted values of the polypeptides for normal subjects.
3. The kit of claim 1, further comprising at least four detectably labelled secondary reagents, each detectably labelled secondary reagent specifically binds to one of the polypeptides, and each of the at least four detectably labelled secondary reagents has a different detectable label.
4. The kit of claim 3, wherein the detectable label comprises a radioactive isotope, a fluorescent dye, an enzyme, a quantum dot, a luminescent reactant, or combinations thereof.
5. The kit of claim 1, wherein the plurality of polypeptides comprise GDF15, keratin 1-10, hepsin, and IL-8.
6. The kit of claim 1, wherein the plurality of polypeptides comprise GDF15, keratin 1-10, CEA, L1CAM, MCP-1, and OPG.
7. The kit of claim 1, wherein the plurality of polypeptides comprise GDF15, keratin 1-10, CEA, L1CAM, MCP-1, OPG, hepsin, and IL-8.
8. The kit of claim 1, wherein the plurality of polypeptides further comprise one or more of AFP, CATD, CD44, ferritin, MIA, MDK, NSE, ON (SPARC), TWEAK, and YKL40.
9. The kit of claim 8, wherein the plurality of polypeptides further comprise MCP-1 and OPG.
10. The kit of claim 1, wherein the at least four reagents comprise at least four primary antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof, each primary antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof specifically binds to one of a plurality of polypeptides.
11. The kit of claim 3, wherein the at least four detectably labelled secondary reagents comprise at least four secondary antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof; each detectably labelled secondary antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof specifically binds to one of the plurality of polypeptides at a different epitope than the primary antibody or antigen binding fragments; and each of the at least four detectably labelled antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof has a different detectable label.
12. The kit of claim 1, wherein each of the at least four reagents is attached to a solid surface, wherein the solid surface comprises a bead, a magnetic bead, a well, slide, a tube, or combinations thereof.
13. The kit of claim 12, wherein each of the at least four reagents is attached to a different solid surface comprising a magnetic bead with a different internal marker.
14. The kit of claim 13, wherein the different internal marker comprises a fluorescent dye, a quantum dot, a protein tag, a RFID tag, or combinations thereof, and wherein the internal marker of the solid surface is different from the detectable label of the detectably labelled secondary reagent specific for polypeptide or nucleic acid coding for the polypeptide attached to the solid surface.
15. A method for detecting at least four different polypeptides in a sample from a subject with unknown status comprising: detecting the presence or an amount of at least four polypeptides in the sample by contacting the sample with at least four reagents, each reagent specifically detecting the presence and/or amount of one of a plurality of polypeptides comprising GDF1, keratin 1-10, and two or more of hepsin, IL-8, CEA, L1CAM, MCP-1, and OPG; and determining whether the combination of the presence of and/or detected amounts of each of the at least four polypeptides is indicative of the presence of or an increased risk of the presence of colorectal cancer in the subject.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the sample is a serum sample, a blood sample, a plasma sample, a urine sample, a tissue sample, a feces sample, or a saliva sample.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the at least four reagents comprise a primary antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof, each primary antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof specifically binds to one of the plurality of polypeptides.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein each primary antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof that specifically binds to one of the polypeptides is attached to a different solid surface.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein each of the different solid surfaces has a different internal marker, the internal marker comprising a fluorescent dye, a quantum dot, a protein tag, a RFID tag, or combinations thereof.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising contacting the sample with at least four detectably labelled secondary reagents comprising secondary antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof, each detectably labelled secondary reagent specifically binds to one of the plurality of polypeptides; and each of the at least four detectably labelled secondary reagents has a different detectable label.
21. The method of claim 15, wherein determining if the combination of the detected amounts of the polypeptides in the sample is indicative of the presence of or an increased risk of the presence of colorectal cancer comprises: receiving the detected amount of each of the polypeptides on a computing device; retrieving a coefficient for each of the detected amounts of each of the polypeptides from a database on the computing device; multiplying each of the detected amounts by the corresponding coefficient to generate a weighted level for each of the polypeptides on the computing device; analyzing the combination of weighted levels for each polypeptide with a model on the computing device to determine if the subject has an increased risk of colorectal cancer based on a change or lack thereof in the combination of weighted levels for each of the polypeptides detected in the sample from the subject to the combination of predetermined weighted values of the polypeptides for normal subjects.
22. The method of claim 15, further comprising conducting an examination of the colon for colorectal cancer if the subject is determined to have an increased risk of the presence of colorectal cancer.
23. The method of claim 15, wherein the plurality of polypeptides further comprise one or more of AFP, CATD, CD44, ferritin, MIA, MDK, NSE, ON (SPARC), TWEAK, and YKL40.
</claims>
</document>
