<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/021,A61B5/145,G16H10/60,G16H40/63,G16H40/67,G16H80/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Livongo Health, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
SEGALOVA, POLINA A.
Kendale, Amar
Fakhouri, Tamer
Mehta, Keval
Kozin, Gene V.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650734
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MANAGING AUDIO FOR REMOTE HEALTH SERVICES
</title>

<abstract>
A mobile health device includes a sensor that monitors values of a health metric of a person, a control component that controls the device to perform actions as part of providing a health service, and components of the device that receive the control signal and perform an action to provide the health service based on the control signal. The components include user output components for producing sound and/or displaying information and where providing the health service includes playing information as sound, displaying information as text, displaying information as motion video, and/or displaying information still images. The control component includes an input that receives audio signals corresponding to the monitored values of the health metric and produces a control signal based on information about the person, including the monitored values of the health metric of the person. The mobile health device may also include a network interface component.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A mobile health device, comprising: a sensor that monitors values of a health metric of a person; a control component that controls the mobile health device to perform actions as part of providing a health service, wherein the control component includes an input that receives audio signals corresponding to the monitored values of the health metric, and produces a control signal based on information about the person, including the monitored values of the health metric of the person; and components of the mobile health device that receive the control signal and perform an action to provide the health service based on the control signal, wherein the components include one or more user output components for producing sound and/or displaying information and wherein providing the health service includes one or more of: playing information as sound, displaying information as text, displaying information as motion video, and displaying information still images.
22. The mobile health device of claim 21, further comprising: a network interface component that communicates with a remote device that is remotely coupled to the mobile health device as part of providing the health service.
23. The mobile health device of claim 22, wherein the network interface component communicates the monitored values to the remote device, which has an audio capture device that captures voice signals corresponding to the monitored values of the health metric.
24. The mobile health device of claim 22, wherein the network interface component receives communications from the remote device that include encoded audio information corresponding to the provided health service the mobile health device further comprising: an audio player that produces decoded audio signals from the encoded audio information; and a speaker that produces sound from the decoded audio signals.
25. The mobile health device of claim 24, wherein the encoded audio information includes encoded voice signals of a health practitioner.
26. The mobile health device of claim 25, further comprising: an audio capture device that captures voice signals of the person; an audio encoding component that encodes the captured voice signals; and telephony logic communicatively coupled to the network interface component, the audio encoding component and the audio player that controls the exchange of real-time voice communications between the health professional and the person.
27. The mobile health device of claim 21, further comprising: an audio capture device that captures voice signals corresponding to the monitored values of the health metric from which the audio input signals are produced.
28. The mobile health device of claim 24, further comprising: a speech-to-text conversion module that converts voice signals to text associated with the health service, wherein the network interface component transmits information corresponding to the monitored values of the health metric based on the text.
29. The mobile health device of claim 21, wherein the health metric is a blood pressure level and/or blood glucose level.
30. The mobile health device of claim 21, wherein the control component converts each received audio signal to an input value and determines the control signal based on the input value.
31. For a mobile health device including a sensor that monitors values of a health metric of a person, a control component that controls the mobile health device to perform actions as part of providing a first health service, wherein the control component includes an input that receives audio signals corresponding to the monitored values of the health metric, and produces a control signal to control components of the mobile health device, and components that receive the control signal and perform an action based on the control signal as part of providing the health service, wherein the components include user output components that produce sound and/or display information, a method of operating the mobile health device, comprising: determining which of the following output actions to perform in providing the health service based on information about the person, including the monitored values of the health metric of the person: playing information as sound on the user output components, displaying information as text on the user output components, displaying information as motion video on the user output components, and displaying information as still images on the user output components; and the control component controlling the user output components to perform a determined user output action.
32. The method of claim 31, further comprising: a network interface component exchanging communications with a remote device that is remotely coupled to the mobile health device as part of providing the health service, wherein the network interface component receives communications from the remote device.
33. The method of claim 32, wherein the network interface component communicates the monitored values to the remote device, the remote device including an audio capture device that captures voice signals corresponding to the monitored values of the health metric from which the audio input signals are produced.
34. The method of claim 32, wherein network interface component receives communications from the remote device that include encoded audio information corresponding to the provided health service, and wherein the mobile health device further includes an audio player that produces decoded audio signals from the encoded audio information and includes a speaker that produces sound from the decoded audio signals.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein the encoded audio information includes encoded voice signals of a health practitioner.
36. The method of claim 35, further comprising: capturing voice signals of the person; encoding the captured voice signals, and exchanging real-time voice communications between the health practitioner and the person.
37. The method of claim 31, further comprising: capturing voice signals corresponding to monitored values of the health metric from which the first audio input signals are produced.
38. The method of claim 35, further comprising: converting voice signals to text associated with the provided first health service corresponding to the detected health metric; and transmitting information corresponding to the monitored values of the health metric based on the text.
39. The method of claim 31, wherein the health metric is a blood pressure level and/or blood glucose level.
40. For a mobile health device including a sensor that monitors values of a health metric of a person, a control component that controls the mobile health device to perform one or more actions as part of providing a health service, wherein the control component includes an input that receives first audio signals corresponding to monitored values of the health metric, and produces a control signal to control components of the mobile health device, and components that receive the control signal and perform an action based on the control signal as part of providing the health service, wherein the components include user output components for producing sound and/or displaying information, non-transitory computer-readable media having software stored thereon comprising: executable code that determines which one or more of the following output actions to perform to provide the health service based on information about the person, including the monitored values of the health metric of the person: playing information as sound on the user output components, displaying information as text on the user output components, displaying information as motion video on the user output components, and displaying information as still images on the user output components; and executable code within the control component that controls the user output components to perform the determined user output actions.
41. 41.-150. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
