<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W24/08,H04W48/08,H04W74/08,H04W76/15
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, SANG WON
LEE, YOUNGDAE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71609428
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR INITIAL ACCESS IN WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to initial access in wireless communications. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, a method performed by a wireless device in a wireless communication system comprises: measuring a signal quality for a first cell and a signal quality for a second cell; and based on a determination that the signal quality for the first cell and the signal quality for the second cell are within an offset, performing an initial access to both of the first cell and the second cell.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by a wireless device in a wireless communication system, the method comprising: measuring a signal quality for a first cell and a signal quality for a second cell; and based on a determination that the signal quality for the first cell and the signal quality for the second cell are within an offset, performing an initial access to both of the first cell and the second cell.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the signal quality for the first cell and the signal quality for the second sell are above a threshold that is configured by a network or is a predetermined value.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the wireless device is in an idle mode or an inactive mode.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein offset is configured by a network, or is a predetermined value.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from a camped cell the wireless device camps on, information informing one or more candidate cells for a duplicated access, wherein the first cell is the camped cell, and wherein the second cell belongs to the one or more candidate cells.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the signal quality for the second cell is within the offset below the signal quality for the camped cell.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the performing of the initial access to both of the first cell and the second cell comprises: transmitting duplicated connection request messages to both of the first cell and the second cell during a random access for the first cell and a random access for the second cell; receiving one or more connection response messages for one or more of the duplicated connection request messages; selecting one of the first cell and the second cell as a serving cell for the wireless device based on the one or more connection response messages; and transmitting, to the serving cell, a connection complete message.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: after transmitting the connection complete message to the serving cell, stopping a random access for a cell that is not selected as the serving cell among the first cell and the second cell.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: generating a connection request message; and duplicating the connection request message to obtain the duplicated connection request messages.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the serving cell comprises: a cell from which a connection response message is received first among connection response messages from the first cell and the second cell; a cell from which a connection response message is received among the first cell and the second cell; or a cell informed by the one or more connection response messages.
11. The method of claim 7, further comprising: transmitting random access preambles to both of the first cell and the second cell; and receiving, from both of the first cell and the second cell, random access responses each of which comprises an uplink grant, wherein the random access preamble is dedicated for transmitting the duplicated connection request messages, and wherein the transmitting of the duplicated connection request message comprises transmitting the duplicated connection request messages to both of the first cell and the second cell based on the uplink grant.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein the transmitting of the duplicated connection request message comprises: transmitting a random access channel (RACH) message 1 (MSG1) comprising both of a random access preamble and a duplicated connection request message to the first cell, and transmitting a RACH MSG1 comprising both of a random access preamble and a duplicated connection request message to the second cell.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the performing of the initial access to both of the first cell and the second cell comprises: transmitting duplicated connection request messages to both of the first cell and the second cell during the random access for the first cell and the random access for the second cell; receiving, from the first cell, a connection reject message for a duplicated connection request message transmitted to the first cell among the duplicated connection request messages; and stopping the random access for the first cell based on the connection reject message, wherein the random access for the second cell continues being performed while the random access for the first cell is stopped.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the performing of the initial access to both of e first cell and the second cell comprises: transmitting duplicated connection request messages to both of the first cell and the second cell during the random access for the first cell and the random access for the second cell; receiving, from the first cell, a connection reject message for a duplicated connection request message transmitted to the first cell among the duplicated connection request messages; and stopping both of the random access for the first cell and the random access for the second cell based on the connection rejected message received from the first cell.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the wireless device is in communication with at least one of a user equipment, a network, or autonomous vehicles other than the wireless device.
16. A wireless device in a wireless communication system comprising: a transceiver; a memory; and at least one processor operatively coupled to the transceiver and the memory, and configured to: measure a signal quality for a first cell and a signal quality for a second cell, and based on a determination that the signal quality for the first cell and the signal quality for the second cell are within an offset, perform an initial access to both of the first cell and the second cell.
17. A processor for a wireless device in a wireless communication system, wherein the processor is configured to control the wireless device to perform operations comprising: measuring a signal quality for a first cell and a signal quality for a second cell; based on a determination that the signal quality for the first cell and the signal quality for the second cell are within an offset, performing an initial access to both of the first cell and the second cell.
</claims>
</document>
