<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06K9/62,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UL'
</assignee>

<inventors>
Sharpe, Spencer
Caulfield, Kyle Michael
Anschuetz, Christian Dorn
Durvasula, Surekha
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72747445
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNOLOGIES FOR CLASSIFYING FEEDBACK USING MACHINE LEARNING MODELS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for classifying product feedback by an electronic device are described. According to certain aspects, an electronic device may receive consumer feedback entries associated with various products, where each entry may include an initial classification. The electronic device may analyze each entry using a machine learning model to determine a subsequent classification for the entry. When there is a mismatch between classifications, the electronic device may present information associated with the entry for review by a user, where the user may specify a final classification for the entry, and the electronic device may update the machine learning model for use in subsequent analyses.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for classifying product feedback, the method comprising: generating, by a processor, a machine learning model using an initial dataset comprising a set of initial consumer feedback entries associated with a set of products, including classifying each initial consumer feedback entry of the set of initial consumer feedback entries as one of a first category or a second category; accessing, by the processor, a consumer feedback entry associated with a product of the set of products, wherein the consumer feedback entry comprises an initial classification as one of the first category or the second category; applying the machine learning model to the consumer feedback entry to classify the consumer feedback entry as a subsequent classification as the other of the first category or the second category; and displaying, in a user interface, an indication of the consumer feedback entry, the initial classification, and the subsequent classification.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first category is a risk and the second category is a quality.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, via the user interface, a selection to specify a final classification, of the first category and the second category, for the consumer feedback entry; and updating the machine learning model to reflect the final classification of the consumer feedback entry.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein receiving, the via the user interface, the selection to specify the final classification for the consumer feedback entry comprises: receiving, via the user interface, the selection to specify the final classification as the one of the first category or the second category.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein receiving, via the user interface, the selection to specify the final classification for the consumer feedback entry comprises: receiving, via the user interface, (i) the selection to specify the final classification for the consumer feedback entry, and (ii) a comment associated with the final classification.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein accessing the consumer feedback entry associated with the product comprises: receiving, by the processor via a network connection, the consumer feedback entry from a user electronic device.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein accessing the consumer feedback entry associated with the product comprises: accessing, by the processor, the consumer feedback entry associated with the product of the set of products, wherein the consumer feedback entry comprises the initial classification as specified by an external user.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the machine learning model comprises: training, by the processor, the machine learning model using a training dataset comprising a set of consumer feedback training entries associated with the set of products, including classifying each consumer feedback training entry of the set of consumer feedback training entries as one of the first category or the second category.
9. A system for classifying product feedback, the system comprising: a processor; a memory storing data associated with a machine learning model; a user interface; and a non-transitory computer-readable memory coupled to the processor and the user interface, and storing instructions thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: generate the machine learning model using an initial dataset comprising a set of initial consumer feedback entries associated with a set of products, including classifying each initial consumer feedback entry of the set of initial consumer feedback entries as one of a first category or a second category, access a consumer feedback entry associated with a product of the set of products, wherein the consumer feedback entry comprises an initial classification as one of the first category or the second category, apply the machine learning model to the consumer feedback entry to classify the consumer feedback entry as a subsequent classification as the other of the first category or the second category, and cause the user interface to display an indication of the consumer feedback entry, the initial classification, and the subsequent classification.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the first category is a risk and the second category is a quality.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the processor to: receive, via the user interface, a selection to specify a final classification, of the first category and the second category, for the consumer feedback entry, and update the machine learning model to reflect the final classification of the consumer feedback entry.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor receives, via the user interface, the selection to specify the final classification as the one of the first category or the second category.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor receives, via the user interface, (i) the selection to specify the final classification for the consumer feedback entry, and (ii) a comment associated with the final classification.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein to access the consumer feedback entry associated with the product, the processor is configured to: receive, via a network connection, the consumer feedback entry from a user electronic device.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein to access the consumer feedback entry associated with the product, the processor is configured to: access the consumer feedback entry associated with the product of the set of products, wherein the consumer feedback entry comprises the initial classification as specified by an external user.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon a set of instructions, executable by a processor, for classifying product feedback, the instructions comprising: instructions for generating a machine learning model using an initial dataset comprising a set of initial consumer feedback entries associated with a set of products, including classifying each initial consumer feedback entry of the set of initial consumer feedback entries as one of a first category or a second category; instructions for accessing a consumer feedback entry associated with a product of the set of products, wherein the consumer feedback entry comprises an initial classification as one of the first category or the second category; instructions for applying the machine learning model to the consumer feedback entry to classify the consumer feedback entry as a subsequent classification as the other of the first category or the second category; and instructions for displaying, in a user interface, an indication of the consumer feedback entry, the initial classification, and the subsequent classification.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the first category is a risk and the second category is a quality.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions further comprise: instructions for receiving, via the user interface, a selection to specify a final classification, of the first category and the second category, for the consumer feedback entry; and instructions for updating the machine learning model to reflect the final classification of the consumer feedback entry.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the instructions for receiving, the via the user interface, the selection to specify the final classification for the consumer feedback entry comprise: instructions for receiving, via the user interface, (i) the selection to specify the final classification for the consumer feedback entry, and (ii) a comment associated with the final classification.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions for accessing the consumer feedback entry associated with the product comprise: instructions for receiving, by the processor via a network connection, the consumer feedback entry from a user electronic device.
21. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions for accessing the consumer feedback entry associated with the product comprise: instructions for accessing, by the processor, the consumer feedback entry associated with the product of the set of products, wherein the consumer feedback entry comprises the initial classification as specified by an external user.
</claims>
</document>
