<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/951,G06N20/10,G06N20/20,G06N3/04,G06N5/04,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CYBERINT TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
PRIEL, SHAY
IKAR, NOAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63447582
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DIGITAL MDR (MANAGED DETECTION AND RESPONSE) ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
A method for detecting an occurrence of an online event including retrieving a data item from online sources; forming a list by tagging words and/or strings within the data item according to predefined attributes such that the list includes the words and/or strings with their corresponding attributes; forming sequence items relating to the list according to a predefined criterion such that each sequence item includes at least the list and optionally additional preformed lists that have been formed in the same manner as the list and that have a shared concept with the list according to the predefined criterion; running each of the sequence items in a preformed machine learning classifying model that outputs a determination if there is an occurrence of the online event or not. The present invention further relates to generating the machine learning classifying model. The present invention also relates to a corresponding system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-25. (canceled)
26. A method for detecting an occurrence of an online event comprising: retrieving a data item from online sources; forming a list by tagging words and/or strings within the data item according to predefined attributes such that said list comprises the words and/or strings with their corresponding attributes; forming sequence items relating to the list according to a predefined criterion such that each sequence item comprises at least said list and optionally additional preformed lists that have been formed in the same manner as said list and that have a shared concept with said list according to the predefined criterion; and running each of said sequence items in a preformed machine learning classifying model that outputs a determination if there is an occurrence of the online event or not.
27. The method according to claim 26, wherein the data item is a webpage content.
28. The method according to claim 26, wherein the online event relates to a cyber-threat or to a certain subject of interest.
29. The method according to claim 26, further comprising alerting a certain person when the determination of the occurrence of the event is deemed positive.
30. The method according to claim 26, further comprising performing an actionable step when the determination of the occurrence of the event is deemed positive.
31. The method according to claim 30, wherein the actionable step is mitigating a cyber-threat.
32. The method according to claim 26, wherein the list comprises a metadata attribute relating to the time or source of the retrieval of the data item.
33. The method according to claim 26, further comprising running each sequence item in one or more preformed machine learning classifying models that output a determination if there is an occurrence of the online event or not, and applying an averaging function on the outputs of the machine learning classifying models that outputs a final determination if there is an occurrence of the online event or not.
34. The method according to claim 26, further comprising an initial stage of generating the preformed machine learning classifying model comprising: providing a plurality of initial lists comprising words and/or strings with corresponding predefined attributes; providing a plurality of initial sequence items such that each initial sequence item comprises one or more of the initial lists according to a predefined criterion; and generating the machine learning classifying model according to a machine learning process of the initial sequence items.
35. The method according to claim 34, wherein the initial stage comprises feeding the initial sequence items as input to a machine learning mechanism unit that generates the machine learning classifying model according to a machine learning process of the initial sequence items.
36. A method for generating a machine learning classifying model comprising: providing a plurality of lists comprising words and/or strings with corresponding predefined attributes; providing a plurality of sequence items such that each sequence item comprises one or more of the lists according to a predefined criterion; and generating the machine learning classifying model according to a machine learning process of the sequence items.
37. The method according to claim 36, wherein the method comprises feeding the sequence items as input to a machine learning mechanism unit that generates the machine learning classifying model according to a machine learning process of the sequence items.
38. The method according to claim 36, wherein the predefined criterion is a shared concept between all the lists in each sequence item.
39. The method according to claim 36, wherein the plurality of sequence items comprise: tagged sequence items tagged as related or nonrelated to an event; and non-tagged sequence items that are not tagged as related or nonrelated to an event.
40. The method according to claim 39, wherein the event is a cyber-threat or is related to a certain subject of interest.
41. The method according to claim 39, wherein the tagged sequence items have been tagged manually.
42. The method according to claim 39, wherein the sequence items are augmented by carrying out a comparison function between them and optionally other statistical pre-processing, such that each sequence item obtains additional information accordingly.
43. The method according to claim 39, wherein the tagged sequence items with their tagging as related or nonrelated to an event are fed as input to a supervised machine learning mechanism unit that generates the machine learning classifying model according to a machine learning process of the sequence items comprising their tagging as related or nonrelated to an event.
44. The method according to claim 43, wherein the supervised machine learning mechanism units are selected from the group consisting of support-vector machines (SVM) unit, random forests unit, regression, naïve Bayes, and deep/recurrent neural networks unit.
45. The method according to claim 39, wherein the untagged sequence items are fed as input to an unsupervised machine learning mechanism unit that generates the machine learning classifying model according to an unsupervised machine learning process of the sequence items.
46. The method according to claim 37, wherein the sequence items are fed as input to more than one machine learning mechanism units that each generate a machine learning classifying model according to its dedicated machine learning process of the sequence items.
47. The method according to claim 46, further comprising: providing a plurality of validation lists comprising words and/or strings with corresponding predefined attributes; providing a plurality of validation sequence items such that each validation sequence item comprises one or more of the validation lists according to a predefined criterion, and wherein said validation sequence items are each tagged as related or nonrelated to an event; running the validation sequence items in the machine learning classifying models such that each machine learning classifying model outputs a determination for each validation sequence item if there is an occurrence of an online event or not; comparing the results of the determination of each classifying model with its corresponding validation sequence items related or nonrelated to an event tag and assigning each classifying model with a score corresponding to the comparing results; and determining one or more classifying models to be used by either: carrying out an averaging and majority decision function on the assigned scores of the output classifying models and choosing one or more classifying models accordingly; and choosing the classifying models having assigned scores within a predefined range.
48. The method according to claim 47, wherein the assigned score of each classifying model is the relation between the amount of times the classifying model output determinations were correct in relation to the related or nonrelated to an event tag of the validation sequence items.
49. A system for detecting the occurrence of an online event comprising: a database; a processing unit coupled to said database and configured to detect an occurrence of an online event comprising: retrieving a data item from online sources; forming a list by tagging words and/or strings within the data item according to predefined attributes such that said list comprises the words and/or strings with their corresponding attributes; forming sequence items relating to the list according to a predefined criterion such that each sequence item comprises at least said list and optionally additional preformed lists stored in said database, that have been formed in the same manner as said list and that have a shared concept with said list according to the predefined criterion; and running each of said sequence items in a preformed machine learning classifying model that outputs a determination if there is an occurrence of the online event or not.
50. A system for generating a machine learning classifying model comprising: a database; and a processing unit coupled to said database and configured to generate a machine learning classifying model comprising: providing a plurality of lists stored in said database comprising words and/or strings with corresponding predefined attributes; providing a plurality of sequence items stored in said database such that each sequence item comprises one or more of the lists according to a predefined criterion; and generating the machine learning classifying model according to a machine learning process of the sequence items.
</claims>
</document>
