<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AXION RESEARCH
</assignee>

<inventors>
SATO, TOMOYOSHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65039677
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SUPPORT SYSTEM FOR ESTIMATING AN INTERNAL STATE OF A TARGET SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A support system (10) estimates the internal state of a target system and includes: an inference module (22) configured to output a first estimated state estimated according to at least one predetermined rule, based on first test data; an AI module (21) that includes a learning module (210) configured to learn to estimate a state of the target system based on the first test data and the first estimated state, and is configured to output a second estimated state for second test data; a verification module (23) configured to verify the accuracy of the state estimated by the inference module and the state estimated by the artificial intelligence module; and a determination module (28) that switches priority rankings between the state estimated by the inference module and the state estimated by the artificial intelligence module to output, based on a verification result of the verification module.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A support system for estimating an internal state of a target system, comprising a set of modules, wherein the set of modules includes: an inference module configured to output a first estimated state of the target system that has been estimated according to at least one predetermined rule, based on first test data relating to the target system; an artificial intelligence module that includes a learning module that is configured to perform learning to estimate a state of the target system based on the first test data and the first estimated state, and is configured to output a second estimated state of the target system for second test data; a verification module configured to verify accuracy of state estimated by the inference module and state estimated by the artificial intelligence module; and a determination module that switches priority rankings between the state estimated by the inference module and the state estimated by the artificial intelligence module to output, based on a verification result of the verification module.
2. The support system according to claim 1, wherein the set of modules further includes a replica generating module configured to generate replicas of test data of the target system for learning by the learning module.
3. The support system according to claim 2, wherein the set of modules further includes an optimization module configured to provide an optimization policy for the replicas to the replica generating module based on accuracy of the state estimated by the artificial intelligence module that has been verified by the verification module.
4. The support system according to claim 2, wherein the replica generating module includes a module that generates the replicas that reflect actual distributions of a plurality of parameter values included in test data of the target system.
5. The support system according to claim 2, wherein the replica generating module includes a module that generates internal replicas indicating internal states of the target system and replicas of test data reversely estimated from ranges of change in the internal replicas.
6. The support system according to claim 1, wherein the set of modules further includes an input processing module configured to pre-process test data of the target system according to a predetermined rule to convert to test data to be inputted into the inference module and the artificial intelligence module.
7. The support system according to claim 6, wherein the input processing module includes a module that generates a map indicating correlations between parameters included in the test data.
8. The support system according to claim 1, wherein the verification module includes: a module for determining ambiguity in the state estimated h the inference module or the artificial intelligence module; and a module that acquires additional information from outside in accordance with the ambiguity.
9. The support system according to claim 8, wherein the additional information includes at least one of feedback from a diagnosis expert on the target system, a follow-up observation, and a result of an additional test.
10. The support system according to claim 1, wherein the set of modules further includes a module that outputs the estimated state selected by the determination module as diagnosis information on the target system.
11. The support system according to claim 1, wherein the target system is a human body.
12. The support system according to claim 1, further comprising: a memory storing the set of modules as a program; and a processor that loads and executes the program stored in the memory.
13. A cloud system, where at least one support system according to claim 1 and a terminal of a diagnosis expert on the target system are connected by a cloud, and an output of the at least one support system is referenced via the cloud.
14. A cloud system, where at least one support system according to claim 9, a terminal of a diagnosis expert on the target system, and an institution capable of a follow-up observation of the target system are connected by a cloud, and the verification module of the at least one support system orders advice of the diagnosis expert or the follow-up observation via the cloud.
15. A program product comprising instructions that cause a computer to function as a support system according to claim 1.
16. A control method for a support system that estimates an internal state of a target system, wherein the support system includes: an inference module configured to output a first estimated state of the target system that has been estimated according to at least one predetermined rule, based on first test data relating to the target system; an artificial intelligence module that includes a learning module that is configured to perform learning to estimate a state of the target system based on the first test data and the first estimated state, and is configured to output a second estimated state of the target system for second test data; and a verification module configured to verify accuracy of state estimated by the inference module and state estimated by the artificial intelligence module, and the control method comprises: outputting the state estimated by the inference module with priority over the state estimated by the artificial intelligence module; and outputting the state estimated by the artificial intelligence module with priority over the state estimated by the inference module.
17. The control method according to claim 16, wherein the support system further includes a replica generating module configured to generate replicas of test data of the target system for learning by the learning module, and the control method further comprises providing an optimization policy for the replicas to the replica generating module based on accuracy of the state estimated by the artificial intelligence module that has been verified by the verification module.
</claims>
</document>
