<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G10L21/0224,G10L21/0324,G10L21/10,G10L25/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SOUND GENETICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALMOJARKESH, ANWAR
GERARD, DOYLE
KENNEDY, RICK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71609050
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PRE-FILTERING AUDIO CONTENT BASED ON PROMINENCE OF FREQUENCY CONTENT
</title>

<abstract>
A system is disclosed for processing electronic audio signals. The system includes an input process for receiving digital samples of an electronic audio signal; a frame division process for allocating sequences of the digital samples of the electronic audio signal to respective frames; a frequency transform process for processing the digital samples by frame thereby to register, for each of the frames, a respective frequency set; a filtering process for filtering frequencies of each frequency set into a respective one of a plurality of orders based on relative prominence; an amplitude sequence process for generating multiple amplitude sequences based on the orders, each amplitude sequence n respectively comprising a sequence of amplitudes of the nth-order frequency content in the frames; and an output process for generating user-apprehendable content for a user interface of the system based on the multiple amplitude sequences. Related systems, methods and computer-readable media are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for processing electronic audio signals, the system comprising: an input process for receiving digital samples of an electronic audio signal; a frame division process for allocating sequences of the digital samples of the electronic audio signal to respective frames; a frequency transform process for processing the digital samples by frame thereby to register, for each of the frames, a respective frequency set; a filtering process for filtering frequencies of each frequency set into a respective one of a plurality of orders based on relative prominence; an amplitude sequence process for generating multiple amplitude sequences based on the orders, each amplitude sequence n respectively comprising a sequence of amplitudes of the nth-order frequency content in the frames; and an output process for generating user-apprehendable content for a user interface of the system based on the multiple amplitude sequences.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the frame division process allocates a number of digital samples to respective frames based on a configurable sampling rate and a configurable frequency transform buffer size.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the frequency transform process allocates a number of frequencies to each frequency set based at least on a configurable number of frequencies per frame.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the frequency transform process allocates a number of frequencies to each frequency set based at least on a configurable frequency bandwidth.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the frequency transform process allocates a number of frequencies to each frequency set based at least on a configurable amplitude threshold, wherein digital samples of the electronic sound signal having an amplitude below the configurable amplitude threshold are excluded from the processing.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the output process comprises: a display process configured to generate for display on a display device a visual representation of one or more of the multiple amplitude sequences.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the display process further displays measurements corresponding to the displayed one or more amplitude sequences on the display device.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the measurements comprise: frequency values for each frequency for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the measurements comprise: a repetition count for each frequency value for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein the measurements comprise: a total number of frames for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein the measurements comprise: an identification of a strongest frequency for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process, wherein the strongest frequency is a frequency with the highest sum of amplitudes from all amplitude sequences being displayed on the display device.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein the measurements comprise: an identification of a single frequency for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process in longest unbroken succession across frames of an amplitude sequence.
13. The system of claim 7, wherein the measurements comprise: a frequency having the maximum amplitude of frequencies for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process; and the maximum amplitude.
14. The system of claim 7, wherein the measurements comprise: a total count of amplitude oscillations present in the displayed one or more amplitude sequence.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the total count of amplitude oscillations is based at least on a configurable oscillation amplitude threshold.
16. The system of claim 7, wherein the measurements comprise: a total count of frequencies present in the displayed one or more amplitude sequence.
17. The system of claim 7, wherein the measurements comprise: a total count of error frames corresponding to the displayed one or more amplitude sequences.
18. The system of claim 7, wherein the measurements comprise: a total count of increasing frames in a first part of the displayed one or more amplitude sequences.
19. The system of claim 7, wherein the measurements comprise: a total count of decreasing frames in a first part of the displayed one or more amplitude sequences.
20. The system of claim 6, wherein the display process is further configured to display a user control for selecting, individually or collectively, one or more of the multiple amplitude sequences for display on the display device.
21. The system of claim 6, wherein the display process is further configured to provide a user control for zooming in on a portion of a displayed one or more amplitude sequences.
22. The system of claim 1, wherein the output process comprises: a test process for testing the at least one amplitude sequence to generate measurements, the test process comparing the measurements to one or more respective threshold parameters to generate a sound detection score; and a user interface process for generating for a user a representation of the sound detection score.
23. A method for processing electronic audio signals, the method comprising: receiving digital samples of an electronic audio signal; allocating sequences of the digital samples of the electronic audio signal to respective frames; processing the digital samples by frame thereby to register, for each of the frames, a respective frequency set; filtering frequencies of each frequency set into a respective one of a plurality of orders based on relative prominence; generating multiple amplitude sequences based on the orders, each amplitude sequence n respectively comprising a sequence of amplitudes of the nth-order frequency content in the frames; and generating user-apprehendable content for a user interface based on the multiple amplitude sequences.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the allocating comprises allocating a number of digital samples to respective frames based on a configurable sampling rate and a configurable frequency transform buffer size.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein the allocating comprises allocating a number of frequencies to each frequency set based at least on a configurable number of frequencies per frame.
26. The method of claim 23, wherein the allocating comprises allocating a number of frequencies to each frequency set based at least on a configurable frequency bandwidth.
27. The method of claim 23, wherein the allocating comprises allocating a number of frequencies to each frequency set based at least on a configurable amplitude threshold, wherein digital samples of the electronic sound signal having an amplitude below the configurable amplitude threshold are excluded.
28. The method of claim 23, wherein the generating user-apprehendable content comprises generating for display on a display device a visual representation of one or more of the multiple amplitude sequences.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the generating for display further comprises generating for display measurements corresponding to the displayed one or more amplitude sequences on the display device.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the measurements comprise: frequency values for each frequency for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process.
31. The method of claim 29, wherein the measurements comprise: a repetition count for each frequency value for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process.
32. The method of claim 29, wherein the measurements comprise: a total number of frames for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process.
33. The method of claim 29, wherein the measurements comprise: an identification of a strongest frequency for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process, wherein the strongest frequency is a frequency with the highest sum of amplitudes from all amplitude sequences being displayed on the display device.
34. The method of claim 29, wherein the measurements comprise: an identification of a single frequency for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process in longest unbroken succession across frames of an amplitude sequence.
35. The method of claim 29, wherein the measurements comprise: a frequency having the maximum amplitude of frequencies for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process; and the maximum amplitude.
36. The method of claim 29, wherein the measurements comprise: a total count of amplitude oscillations present in the displayed one or more amplitude sequence.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein the total count of amplitude oscillations is based at least on a configurable oscillation amplitude threshold.
38. The method of claim 29, wherein the measurements comprise: a total count of frequencies present in the displayed one or more amplitude sequence.
39. The method of claim 29, wherein the measurements comprise: a total count of error frames corresponding to the displayed one or more amplitude sequences.
40. The method of claim 29, wherein the measurements comprise: a total count of increasing frames in a first part of the displayed one or more amplitude sequences.
41. The method of claim 29, wherein the measurements comprise: a total count of decreasing frames in a first part of the displayed one or more amplitude sequences.
42. The method of claim 28, wherein the generating user-apprehendable content comprises displaying a user control for selecting, individually or collectively, one or more of the multiple amplitude sequences for display on the display device.
43. The method of claim 28, wherein the generating for display on a display device comprises providing a user control for zooming in on a portion of a displayed one or more amplitude sequences.
44. The method of claim 23, wherein the generating user-apprehendable content based on the multiple amplitude sequences comprises: testing the at least one amplitude sequence to generate measurements and comparing the measurements to one or more respective threshold parameters to generate a sound detection score; and generating for a user a representation of the sound detection score.
45. A non-transitory processor-readable medium embodying a computer program for processing electronic audio signals, the computer program comprising: program code for receiving digital samples of an electronic audio signal; program code for allocating sequences of the digital samples of the electronic audio signal to respective frames; program code for processing the digital samples by frame thereby to register, for each of the frames, a respective frequency set; program code for filtering frequencies of each frequency set into a respective one of a plurality of orders based on relative prominence; program code for generating multiple amplitude sequences based on the orders, each amplitude sequence n respectively comprising a sequence of amplitudes of the nth-order frequency content in the frames; and program code for generating user-apprehendable content for a user interface based on the multiple amplitude sequences.
46. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 45, wherein the program code for allocating comprises program code for allocating a number of digital samples to respective frames based on a configurable sampling rate and a configurable frequency transform buffer size.
47. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 45, wherein the program code for allocating comprises program code for allocating a number of frequencies to each frequency set based at least on a configurable number of frequencies per frame.
48. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 45, wherein the program code for allocating comprises program code for allocating a number of frequencies to each frequency set based at least on a configurable frequency bandwidth.
49. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 45, wherein the program code for allocating comprises program code for allocating a number of frequencies to each frequency set based at least on a configurable amplitude threshold, wherein digital samples of the electronic sound signal having an amplitude below the configurable amplitude threshold are excluded.
50. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 45, wherein the program code for generating user-apprehendable content comprises program code for generating for display on a display device a visual representation of one or more of the multiple amplitude sequences.
51. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 50, wherein the program code for generating for display further comprises program code for generating for display measurements corresponding to the displayed one or more amplitude sequences on the display device.
52. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 51, wherein the measurements comprise: frequency values for each frequency for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process.
53. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 51, wherein the measurements comprise: a repetition count for each frequency value for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process.
54. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 51, wherein the measurements comprise: a total number of frames for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process.
55. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 51, wherein the measurements comprise: an identification of a strongest frequency for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process, wherein the strongest frequency is a frequency with the highest sum of amplitudes from all amplitude sequences being displayed on the display device.
56. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 51, wherein the measurements comprise: an identification of a single frequency for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process in longest unbroken succession across frames of an amplitude sequence.
57. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 51, wherein the measurements comprise: a frequency having the maximum amplitude of frequencies for which an amplitude is being displayed by the display process; and the maximum amplitude.
58. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 51, wherein the measurements comprise: a total count of amplitude oscillations present in the displayed one or more amplitude sequence.
59. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 58, wherein the total count of amplitude oscillations is based at least on a configurable oscillation amplitude threshold.
60. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 51, wherein the measurements comprise: a total count of frequencies present in the displayed one or more amplitude sequence.
61. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 51, wherein the measurements comprise: a total count of error frames corresponding to the displayed one or more amplitude sequences.
62. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 51, wherein the measurements comprise: a total count of increasing frames in a first part of the displayed one or more amplitude sequences.
63. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 51, wherein the measurements comprise: a total count of decreasing frames in a first part of the displayed one or more amplitude sequences.
64. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 50, wherein the program code for generating user-apprehendable content comprises program code for displaying a user control for selecting, individually or collectively, one or more of the multiple amplitude sequences for display on the display device.
65. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 50, wherein the program code for generating for display on a display device comprises program code for providing a user control for zooming in on a portion of a displayed one or more amplitude sequences.
66. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 45, wherein the program code for generating user-apprehendable content based on the multiple amplitude sequences comprises: program code for testing the at least one amplitude sequence to generate measurements and comparing the measurements to one or more respective threshold parameters to generate a sound detection score; and program code for generating for a user a representation of the sound detection score.
</claims>
</document>
