<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B42F13/00,B42F13/16,B42F13/26,B42F13/40,B42F3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BRADLEY, REBECCA
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRADLEY, REBECCA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70550239
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING SECURITY, BINDING, AND LABELING FOR A PLURALITY OF PAPERS AND COVERING, PROTECTING, AND CONCEALING THE RECORDING, VIEWING, OR USING OF PERSONAL, PRIVATE, AND NONPUBLIC INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for providing security, integrity, binding, maneuverability, and labeling for a plurality of papers, and for covering, protecting, and concealing the recording, viewing, or using personal, private, and nonpublic information on the page. The system includes an un-releasable locking binding device and tamper-evident binding device configured to connect, secure, and papers, which can substantially rotate 360 degrees, fold back upon itself, lie flat when open, and deter and prevent removal and insertion of pages, be tamper evident, and covering devices releasably positioned to cover personal, private, or nonpublic information located on the page. The bound plurality of papers can include an identification label and can be configured as a secure Notary journal notebook having all NonPublic Personal Information (NPPI) fields for a single record on the left or right page and an acronym list.
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. A system for providing improving usability, functionality, maneuverability, integrity, labeling, and security for a plurality of papers, comprising: a spine binder shaft having a posterior side and a bendable center axis; a first plurality of loop fasteners connected to the posterior side of the spine binder shaft and having a first end configured as a male connector; a second plurality of loop fasteners connected to the posterior side of the spine binder shaft and having a first end configured as a female connector and configured to receive and engage the male connector of the first plurality of loop fasteners to form a cooperating pair of loop fasteners that close and unrelease to bind the plurality of papers, wherein when closed, the spine binder shaft, first plurality of loop fasteners, and second plurality of loop fasteners form a continuous un-releasable unit and when the first and second plurality of loop fasteners are closed flush, a bound plurality of papers, can rotate substantially 360 degrees to fold back upon itself and lie flat when open.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the male connector further comprises a shank having at least two compressible tabs at an end of a rimmed head plug whereby the shank tabs can compress for insertion into the female connector and decompress once inserted into the female connector to latch and secure.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the male connector further comprises a shank having compressible center channel at an end of a rimmed head plug for insertion into the female connector whereby the rimmed head plug can compress for insertion into the female connector and decompress once inserted into the female connector to latch and secure.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the female connector further comprises a rimmed chamber cavity adapted to receive, engage, and unrelease a shank or head of the male connector.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of papers further comprises a plurality of combining holes configured to receive the first plurality of loop fasteners and the second plurality of loop fasteners.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of loop fasteners and the second plurality of loop fasteners and the spine binder shaft are constructed of magnetic material to releasably attach and adhere to a magnetic label having indicia printed with information regarding the bound plurality of papers.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the spine binder shaft further comprises material selected from the group consisting of plastic, metal, wood, leather, fabric, steel, tin, vinyl, precious metal, stone, cord, carbon fiber, resin, graphene, synthetic elastomer, fiberboard, poly, acrylic, acrylic glass, plexiglass, bio-plastic, eco-plastic, polyester, rubber, and silicone, and further comprises at least one label selected from the group consisting of an identification label, tag, identification tag, identifier, identification, identification mark, identification marker, spine label, electronic identifier, Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tag, electronic tag, Electronic IDdentification (eID) tag, microchip tag, Unique Identifier (UID) tag, Personal Identifier (PID) tag, transponder, digital identifier, book spine poetry, book marker, and decorative tag, the label further comprising material selected from the group consisting of plastic, metal, paper, silk, wood, cardboard, leather, fabric, ribbon, felt, steel, tin, vinyl, precious metal, stone, mineral, ornament, cord, foil, carbon fiber, resin, graphene, synthetic elastomer, fiberboard, poly, acrylic, acrylic glass, plexiglass, bio-plastic, eco-plastic, polyester, silicone, rubber, and cardstock, the label further comprising at least one indicia selected from the group consisting of at least one mark, letter, number, sequential number, watermark, bar code, author, title, logo, publisher, trademark, brand, decoration, price, picture, descriptor, category, lettering, clip art, image, design, graphic, Uniform Product Code (UPC), website, endorsement, International Standard Book Number (ISBN), Radio Frequency Identification (RFID), electronic identification (eID), Unique Identifier (UID), transponder, and microchip with information regarding the bound plurality of papers.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the spine binder shaft further comprises a shaft having a combining hole and a label having indicia with information regarding the bound plurality of papers, wherein the label is adapted with at least one combining hole to attach the label to the spine binder shaft and wherein the indicia can be concealed and wherein the label can be used as a place marker when the label is placed within a bound plurality of papers.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the spine binder shaft further comprises a label having indicia with information regarding the bound plurality of papers, wherein the label is adapted to attach to at least one of the first plurality of loop fasteners of the spine binder shaft and wherein the indicia can be concealed and wherein the label can be used as a place marker when the label is placed within a bound plurality of papers.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the spine binder shaft further comprises a label having indicia with information regarding the bound plurality of papers, wherein the label is adapted to attach to at least one combining hole of the plurality of papers, and wherein the indicia can be concealed and wherein the label can be used as a place marker when the label is placed within a bound plurality of papers.
11. The system of claim 1, further comprising a label having at least one combining hole attached to at least one of the first plurality of binding loops of the spine binder shaft.
12. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one tamper-evident security device selected from a group consisting of an indicative seal, barrier seal, security seal, security sticker, plastic seal, metal seal, adjustable length seal, banking seal, fixed seal, bolt seal, screw seal, security ring, locking seal, padlock seal, Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tag, electronic IDdentification (eID) tag, microchip tag, Unique Identifier (UID) tag, Personal Identifier (PID) tag, transponder, and digital identifier, wherein the security device is inserted through at least one combining hole of the bound plurality of papers, wherein upon closing the tamper-evident security device prevents removal and insertion of a page without evidence of tampering.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the spine binder shaft further comprises at least one indicia security feature selected from the group consisting of at least one mark, letter, number, sequential number, watermark, bar code, author, title, logo, publisher, trademark, brand, decoration, price, picture, descriptor, category, lettering, clip art, image, design, graphic, Uniform Product Code (UPC), website, endorsement, International Standard Book Number (ISBN), Radio Frequency Identification (RFID), electronic identification (eID), Unique Identifier (UID), transponder, and microchip.
14. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one tamper-evident security device selected from a group consisting of an indicative seal, barrier seal, security seal, security sticker, plastic seal, metal seal, adjustable length seal, banking seal, fixed seal, bolt seal, screw seal, security ring, locking seal, padlock seal, Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tag, electronic IDdentification (eID) tag, microchip tag, Unique Identifier (UID) tag, Personal Identifier (PID) tag, transponder, and digital identifier, wherein the security device is attached between two binding loops around the spine binder shaft, wherein upon closing the tamper-evident security device around the spine binder shaft maintains the integrity of the tamper-evident device to the spine binder shaft, to deter removal of the shaft without evidence of tampering.
15. A system for providing improving usability, function, maneuverability, integrity, labeling, and security for a plurality of papers, comprising: a binding device to secure a plurality of papers, wherein the bound plurality of papers, can rotate substantially 360 degrees to fold back upon itself and lie flat when open; and a tamper-evident security feature wherein upon closing the tamper-evident security feature prevents removal and insertion of a page without evidence of tampering.
16. The system of claim 15 wherein the tamper-evident security feature further comprises at least one indicia security feature selected from the group consisting of at least one mark, letter, number, sequential number, watermark, bar code, author, title, logo, publisher, trademark, brand, decoration, price, picture, descriptor, category, lettering, clip art, image, design, graphic, Uniform Product Code (UPC), website, endorsement, International Standard Book Number (ISBN), Radio Frequency Identification (RFID), electronic identification (eID), Unique Identifier (UID), transponder, digital identifier, unique identifier, and microchip printed or configured on each page.
17. The system of claim 15 wherein the binding device further comprises a punch and bind binding selected from the group consisting of spiral, coil, and wire, comprising a spiral binding having a male connector on each end having a substantially enlarged rimmed head selected from the group of at least two compressible tabs, a compressible center channel slit in the head, and compressible center channel slit in the head and shaft, and a tamper-evident security device comprising a corresponding female connector bead selected from the group consisting of a ball, square, rectangle, cube, oval, cabochon, marquise, baroque, barrel, polygon, octagon, geometric, and tab sized larger than a combining hole and having a rimmed chamber cavity wherein the female connector is configured to attach to and receive the male connector and securely and un-releasably attach the female connector to each male connector end of the binding device so that pages cannot be inserted or removed once attached or closed without evidence of tampering of the binding or the female connector and being configured to deter and prevent removal or insertion of one or more pages in the bound plurality of papers.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein each page of a plurality of papers further comprises at least one tamper-evident security feature selected from the group consisting of pantograph paper, erasure resistant paper, coin-reactive ink, thermochromic ink, microtext print, bar codes, and radio frequency identification tags.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the bound plurality of papers further comprises a left page and a right page forming two facing pages of a spread and NPPI, records, data entry fields, associated signature authentication and fingerprint records for a single record located on either the left page or the right page.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the bound plurality of papers further comprises a label having indicia with information regarding the bound plurality of papers, wherein such label is adapted with a combining hole to attach the label to the binding device.
21. The system of claim 15, wherein the bound plurality of papers, further comprises a bound a Notary record book, wherein the binding device further comprises a locking spine binder for binding the Notary Public record book.
22. The system of claim 15, wherein the bound plurality of papers, further comprises a bound a Notary Public record book, wherein the binding device further comprises a punch and bind binding with a tamper-evident security feature wherein the bound plurality of pages can rotate substantially 360 degrees, and fold back upon itself, and lie flat when open, and has NPPI fields for a single record on the left or right page, and an acronym list.
23. The system of claim 15, wherein the binding device comprises a punch and bind binding selected from the group of spiral, coil, and wire, and a tamper-evident security feature selected from the group consisting of a geometric bead, indicative seal, barrier seal, security seal, plastic seal, metal seal, adjustable length seal, fixed seal, bolt seal, security ring, locking seal, Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tag, electronic IDdentification (eID) tag, microchip tag, Unique Identifier (UID) tag, Personal Identifier (PID) tag, transponder, and digital identifier, wherein the tamper-evident security feature is attached to each end of the punch and bind binding device, and wherein upon attaching the tamper-evident security feature prevents removal and insertion of a page without evidence of tampering.
24. The system of claim 15, wherein the binding device comprises a punch and bind binding selected from the group of spiral, coil, and wire, and a tamper-evident security feature selected from the group consisting of indicative seal, barrier seal, security seal, security sticker, plastic seal, metal seal, adjustable length seal, banking seal, fixed seal, bolt seal, screw seal, security ring, locking seal, padlock seal, Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tag, electronic IDdentification (eID) tag, microchip tag, Unique Identifier (UID) tag, Personal Identifier (PID) tag, transponder, and digital identifier, wherein the tamper-evident security feature is inserted through at least one combining hole of the plurality of papers, and wherein upon closing the tamper-evident security feature prevents removal and insertion of a page without evidence of tampering.
25. A covering device for releasably covering, providing security, and concealing personal, private, and nonpublic information, comprising: a plurality of magnetic repositionable strips wherein the magnetic repositionable strips are sized to adhere to and cover personal, private, and nonpublic information; and a magnetic repositionable sheet wherein the magnetic repositionable sheet is at least sized to adhere to the plurality of magnetic repositionable strips.
26. The covering device of claim 25, wherein the magnetic repositionable strips have a first side and a second side and wherein the first side and second side are magnetized, and the magnetic sheet has a first side and a second side and wherein a first side or second side are magnetized.
27. The covering device of claim 25, wherein the magnetic repositionable strips and magnetic repositionable sheet further comprises one or more handling tabs.
28. The covering device of claim 25, further comprising a page configured having a first side and a second side and wherein the magnetic repositionable strips are positioned on the first side of the page and the magnetic sheet is positioned on the second side of the page and releasably adhered to the magnetic repositionable strips.
29. A covering device for releasably covering, providing security, and concealing personal, private, or nonpublic information on a page, comprising: a plurality of repositionable strips magnetized on a first side and a second side of the repositionable strips, wherein the repositionable strips are double magnetized; a sheet magnetized on a first side and a second side of the sheet, wherein the sheet is double magnetized, and both sides of the double magnetized sheet are configured to receive and releasably adhere to both sides of the double magnetized repositionable strips; and a connecting component configured to connect the double magnetized sheet to the double magnetized repositionable strips, wherein the double magnetized repositionable strips are sized to adhere to and cover the personal, private, and nonpublic information.
30. The covering device of claim 29, wherein the double magnetized repositionable strips further comprises one or more handling tabs.
31. The covering device of claim 29, wherein the connecting component further comprises an un-releasable binding connector.
32. The covering device of claim 29, wherein the connecting component is selected from the group of spiral, coil, wire, comb, clasp, three-ring binding, and editable spine binder binding device housing, and enclosure.
33. The covering device of claim 29, further comprising at least one page wherein each page further comprises a first side and a second side and wherein the double magnetized repositionable strips are positioned on the first side of the page and the double magnetized sheet is positioned on the second side of page and releasably adhered to the double magnetized repositionable strips.
34. A covering device for providing security for, reducing exposure, covering, protecting or concealing personal, private, and nonpublic information, comprising: a folder sleeve having a first face and a second face, the first face has a substantially opaque exterior side and an interior side having at least one magnetic border and the second face has an interior side having at least one magnetic interior border, and wherein the first face and the second face forming the folder sleeve such that the folder sleeve can slip over two sides and a corner of a page and releasably magnetically join the magnetic edges to secure the folder sleeve where positioned.
35. A covering device for releasably providing security for, reducing exposure, covering, protecting, or concealing personal, private, and nonpublic information, comprising: at least one substantially opaque repositionable adhesive strip having a first edge; and at least one handling tab configured to extend from the first edge of the substantially opaque repositionable adhesive strip, wherein the substantially opaque repositionable adhesive strip are configured to cover personal, private, nonpublic information, and configured for repositioning.
36. A method for covering, protecting, or concealing personal, private, and nonpublic information on a page including personal, private, and nonpublic information, comprising the steps of: a. positioning a magnetic sheet covering device behind a page of personal, private, nonpublic information located on the page; b. positioning a magnetic strip covering device over personal, private, nonpublic information located on the page; c. releasably securing the magnetic strip covering device over personal, private, nonpublic information to be covered on the page; d. exposing other information, blank spaces, or information fields on the page; e. entering data on the exposed blank information field; and f. upon completion of entering data, allowing the magnetic strip covering device to remain in place covering information on the page or releasing the magnetic strip covering device and magnetic sheet covering device for subsequent use.
37. A method for covering, protecting, or concealing personal, private, nonpublic information on a sheet or page including personal, private, and nonpublic information, comprising the steps of: a. positioning a double magnetized covering device bound and connected by a binding device to a plurality of double magnetized strips, wherein the double magnetized strips are magnetically situated on a second side of the double magnetized sheet, and a first side of the double magnetized sheet is placed under a page having personal, private, nonpublic information located on the page; b. rotating one or more of the double magnetized strips from the second side of the double magnetized sheet and positioning the double magnetized strip covering device over the personal, private, nonpublic information located on the page; c. releasably securing the double magnetized strip over personal, private, and nonpublic information on the page to be covered; d. exposing information and blank information fields on the page; e. entering data on an exposed blank information field on the page; f. continuing to enter data as needed until all double magnetized strips have been rotated to cover the personal, private, and nonpublic information; g. allowing the double magnetized strips and the double magnetized sheet to remain in place covering information on the page, wherein the double magnetized strips and double magnetized sheet can be rotated horizontally for reuse or the double magnetized strips can be rotated back to the second side of the double magnetized sheet; and h. when ready for removal, releasing and removing the double magnetized strips and the double magnetized sheet away from the page for future use.
</claims>
</document>
