<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/50,G10L15/06,G10L15/08,G10L15/22,G10L15/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAE, JONG HOON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67254837
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR RECOGNIZING A VOICE
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are a speech recognition device and a speech recognition method, which perform speech recognition by executing an artificial intelligence (AI) algorithm and/or a machine learning algorithm provided therein, and which can communicate with other electronic devices and an external server in a 5G communication environment. According to an embodiment, the speech recognition method includes setting an additional wake-up word target capable of activating a speech recognition function in addition to a preset wake-up word, generating a plurality of additional wake-up word utterances formed on the basis of the additional wake-up word target being uttered under various conditions, learning a wake-up word recognition algorithm by using each of the spoken utterances of the additional wake-up word to generate an additional wake-up word recognition algorithm, and executing the additional wake-up word recognition algorithm upon receiving a select word uttered by a user to determine whether to activate the speech recognition function.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A speech recognition method by a speech recognition device, comprising: setting an additional wake-up word target in addition to a preset wake-up word, the additional wake-up word target being capable of activating a speech recognition function; generating a plurality of utterance data items with respect to the additional wake-up word target based on the additional wake-up word target being uttered under various conditions; generating an additional wake-up word recognition algorithm by training a wake-up word recognition algorithm by using each of the plurality of utterance data items as training input data; and determining whether to activate the speech recognition function by executing the additional wake-up recognition algorithm in response to a select word received and uttered by a user.
2. The speech recognition method of claim 1, the setting of the additional wake-up word target includes: receiving an additional wake-up word setting menu select signal; requesting for an additional wake-up word utterance in response to the additional wake-up word setting menu select signal; receiving the additional wake-up word utterance; and setting the additional wake-up word utterance as the additional wake-up word target.
3. The speech recognition method of claim 1, wherein the setting of the additional wake-up word target includes: receiving an additional wake-up word setting menu select signal; requesting for an additional wake-up word text to be inputted in response to the additional wake-up word setting menu select signal; receiving the additional wake-up word text; and setting the received additional wake-up word text as the additional wake-up word target.
4. The speech recognition method of claim 1, wherein the setting of the additional wake-up word target includes: receiving repeat utterances with respect to the select word; and setting the select word as the additional wake-up word target when a number of the repeat utterances of the select word is greater than or equal to a preset reference number.
5. The speech recognition method of claim 1, wherein the setting of the additional wake-up word target includes: receiving repeat utterances with respect to the select word; analyzing an utterance environment of the select word; and setting the select word as the additional wake-up word target if a number of the repeat utterances of the select word is greater than or equal to a preset reference number and the utterance environment of the select word satisfies a preset condition.
6. The speech recognition method of claim 5, wherein the analyzing of the utterance environment includes: receiving and analyzing a captured image of the utterance environment of the select word; and analyzing a calculation result of a distance between a user uttering the select word and the speech recognition device.
7. The speech recognition method of claim 6, wherein the setting of the additional wake-up word target includes determining that the utterance environment of the select word satisfies the preset condition and setting the select word as the additional wake-up word target if the number of the repeat utterances of the select word is greater than or equal to the preset reference number and a facial direction of the user in the captured image is toward the speech recognition device.
8. The speech recognition method of claim 6, wherein the setting of the additional wake-up word target includes: determining that the utterance environment of the select word satisfies the preset condition if the number of the repeat utterances of the select word is greater than or equal to the preset number, and the distance between the user uttering the select word and the speech recognition device is within a preset reference distance; and setting the select word as the additional wake-up word target.
9. The speech recognition method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the plurality of utterance data items includes: generating a plurality of voice data items with respect to the additional wake-up word target by using database of voice feature parameters; and adding noises to the plurality of voice data items.
10. A computer program, stored in a recording medium readable by a computer, for permitting the speech recognition method of claim 1 to be executed by using the computer.
11. A speech recognition device, comprising: a setter for setting an additional wake-up word target in addition to a preset wake-up word, the additional wake-up word target being capable of activating a speech recognition function; a first generator for generating a plurality of utterance data items with respect to the additional wake-up word target being uttered under various conditions; a second generator for generating an additional wake-up word recognition algorithm by learning a wake-up word recognition algorithm by using each of the plurality of utterance data items as training input data; and a determiner for determining whether to activate the speech recognition function by executing the additional wake-up recognition algorithm upon receiving a select word uttered by a user.
12. The speech recognition device of claim 11, wherein the setter includes: a first processor configured to, in response to the additional wake-up word setting menu select signal, request an additional wake-up word utterance and receiving the additional wake-up word utterance; and a first setter configured to set the additional wake-up word utterance as the additional wake-up word target.
13. The speech recognition device of claim 11, wherein the setter includes: a first processor configured to request a spoken utterance of an additional wake-up word in response to the additional wake-up word setting menu select signal, and receive the spoken utterance of the additional wake-up word; and a first setter configured to set the spoken utterance of the additional wake-up word as the additional wake-up word target.
14. The speech recognition device of claim 11, wherein the setter includes: a second processor configured to receive repeat utterances of the select word; and a second setter configured to set the select word as the additional wake-up word target when a number of the repeat utterances of the select word is greater than or equal to a preset reference number.
15. The speech recognition device of claim 11, wherein the setter includes: a second processor configured to receive repeat utterances with respect to the select word; an analyzer configured to analyze an utterance environment of the select word; and a second setter configured to set the select word as the additional wake-up word target if a number of the repeat utterances of the select word is equal to or greater than a preset reference number and the utterance environment of the select word satisfies a preset condition.
16. The speech recognition device of claim 15, wherein the analyzer receives and analyzes an image captured of the utterance environment of the select word, or analyzes a calculation result of a distance between the user and the speech recognition device.
17. The speech recognition device of claim 16, wherein if the number of the repeat utterances of the select word is greater than or equal to the preset reference number and a facial direction of the user's face in the image is toward the speech recognition device, the second setter determines that the utterance environment of the select word satisfies the preset condition and sets the select word as the additional wake-up word target.
18. The speech recognition device of claim 16, wherein if the number of the repeat utterances of the select word is greater than or equal to the preset reference number and the distance between the user uttering the select word and the speech recognition device is within a preset reference distance, the second setter determines that the utterance environment of the select word satisfies the preset condition and sets the select word as the additional wake-up word target.
19. The speech recognition device of claim 11, wherein the first generator generates a plurality of voice data items with respect to the additional wake-up word target by using pre-existing database of voice feature parameters and adds noises to the plurality of the voice data items.
</claims>
</document>
