<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B66B1/24,B66B1/46,B66B5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ASTIGARRAGA, TARA
BERGENDAHL, MARC
CHENG, KANGGUO
KARVE, GAURI
LIE, FEE LI
MILLER, ERIC
TEEHAN, SEAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70326393
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELEVATOR ANALYTICS FACILITATING PASSENGER DESTINATION PREDICTION AND RESOURCE OPTIMIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, computer-implemented methods, and computer program products that can facilitate elevator analytics and/or elevator optimization components are provided. According to an embodiment, a system can comprise a memory that stores computer executable components and a processor that executes the computer executable components stored in the memory. The computer executable components can comprise a prediction component that can predict a current destination of an elevator passenger based on historical elevator usage data of the elevator passenger. The computer executable components can further comprise an assignment component that can assign the elevator passenger to an elevator based on the current destination.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a memory that stores computer executable components; and a processor that executes the computer executable components stored in the memory, wherein the computer executable components comprise: a prediction component that predicts a current destination of an elevator passenger based on historical elevator usage data of the elevator passenger; and an assignment component that assigns the elevator passenger to an elevator based on the current destination.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the assignment component further assigns the elevator passenger to the elevator based on an optimal spatial arrangement in the elevator of at least one of: one or more elevator passengers; or one or more objects.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise: an arrangement component that determines an optimal spatial arrangement in the elevator of at least one of: one or more elevator passengers; or one or more objects.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the arrangement component determines the optimal spatial arrangement based on current elevator passenger data comprising visual data of at least one of: a first elevator passenger inside the elevator; a first object inside the elevator; a second elevator passenger outside the elevator; or a second object outside the elevator.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the assignment component further assigns the elevator passenger to the elevator based on detection of a remote device of the elevator passenger.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the prediction component further tracks one or more destinations of the elevator passenger to predict a second current destination.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise: a resource allocation component that allocates one or more elevators based on at least one of: the historical elevator usage data; the current destination; current elevator passenger data; or an optimal spatial arrangement in the one or more elevators.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise: an override component that overrides an assignment of the elevator passenger to the elevator based on at least one of: a security rule; an administrative rule; a medical rule; an emergency rule; or an identification of a defined second elevator passenger.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise: a system optimization component that evaluates status of one or more resources of the system and executes one or more operations to optimize at least one of deployment of one or more elevators or elevator queue duration, thereby facilitating at least one of: improved processing efficiency of the processor; or reduced power consumption by the system.
10. A computer-implemented method, comprising: predicting, by a system operatively coupled to a processor, a current destination of an elevator passenger based on historical elevator usage data of the elevator passenger; and assigning, by the system, the elevator passenger to an elevator based on the current destination.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: assigning, by the system, the elevator passenger to the elevator based on an optimal spatial arrangement in the elevator of at least one of: one or more elevator passengers; or one or more objects.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: determining, by the system, an optimal spatial arrangement in the elevator of at least one of: one or more elevator passengers; or one or more objects.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: assigning, by the system, the elevator passenger to the elevator based on detection of a remote device of the elevator passenger, thereby facilitating a reduced queue duration of the elevator passenger.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: tracking, by the system, one or more destinations of the elevator passenger.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: allocating, by the system, one or more elevators based on at least one of: the historical elevator usage data; the current destination; current elevator passenger data; or an optimal spatial arrangement in the one or more elevators.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: overriding, by the system, an assignment of the elevator passenger to the elevator based on at least one of: a security rule; an administrative rule; a medical rule; an emergency rule; or an identification of a defined second elevator passenger.
17. A computer program product facilitating an elevator analytics and/or elevator optimization process, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to: predict, by the processor, a current destination of an elevator passenger based on historical elevator usage data of the elevator passenger; and assign, by the processor, the elevator passenger to an elevator based on the current destination.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the processor to: assign, by the processor, the elevator passenger to the elevator based on an optimal spatial arrangement in the elevator of at least one of: one or more elevator passengers; or one or more objects.
19. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the processor to: allocate, by the processor, one or more elevators based on at least one of: the historical elevator usage data; the current destination; current elevator passenger data; an optimal spatial arrangement in the one or more elevators; or detection of a remote device of the elevator passenger.
20. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the processor to: override, by the processor, an assignment of the elevator passenger to the elevator based on at least one of: a security rule; an administrative rule; a medical rule; an emergency rule; or an identification of a defined second elevator passenger.
</claims>
</document>
