<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61M16/00,A61M16/01,A61M16/04,A61M16/08,G16H20/40,G16H40/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
REHMAN, MOHAMED
JALALI, ALI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62025456
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATIC DETECTION OF AIRWAY DEVICE, ENDOTRACHEAL INTUBATION, AND TUBE MISPLACEMENT IN CHILDREN DURING THE ANESTHESIA PROCEDURE
</title>

<abstract>
Algorithms for detecting endotracheal intubation and/or misplacement of endotracheal tubes in child patients during anesthesia for use with anesthesia machines, mechanical ventilators, and/or respiratory function monitors. An algorithm uses end-tidal carbon dioxide (EtCO2), and tidal volume (TV) or peak inspiratory pressure (PIP) to detect exact intubation time. Another algorithm uses respiratory parameters to identify and/or confirm the type of airway device used during mechanical ventilation, and to detect if and when an issue has arisen with use of a specific airway device to provide real-time decision support to attending medical care professionals.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for confirming a type of a mechanical ventilation airway device used during an anesthesia procedure on a pediatric patient, the mechanical ventilation airway device configured to generate and regulate a flow of air to a respiratory system of the pediatric patient during the anesthesia procedure, the system comprising: a monitoring device configured to: monitor respiratory parameters of the pediatric patient during the anesthesia procedure, the respiratory parameters including respiratory rate (RR), tidal volume (TV), end-tidal carbon dioxide (EtCO2), and peak inspiratory pressure (PIP), and receive a mechanical ventilation airway device selection for the anesthesia procedure; a memory including a machine-learning data mining algorithm configured to identify the type of the mechanical ventilation airway device used for the anesthesia procedure; an alert generator configured to: receive an alert signal, and issue an alert in response to the alert signal; and a processor coupled to the monitoring device, the memory, and the alert generator, the processor configured to: receive the monitored respiratory parameters, identify the type of the mechanical ventilation airway device by applying the machine-learning data mining algorithm to the monitored respiratory parameters, determine consistency of the identified type of the mechanical ventilation airway device and the mechanical ventilation airway device selection, and transmit, to the alert generator, the alert signal if the identified type of the mechanical ventilation airway device and the mechanical ventilation airway device selection are determined to be inconsistent.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to transmit a confirmation signal to the alert generator if the identified type of the mechanical ventilation airway device and the mechanical ventilation airway device selection are consistent, and wherein the alert generator is further configured to issue a confirmation message in response to the confirmation signal.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the machine-learning data mining algorithm is at least one of a boosted trees (BT) classifier, a support vector machine (SVM) classifier, or a neural network (NN) classifier.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring device is one of an anesthesia machine, a respiratory function monitor, or a mechanical ventilator.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring device comprises a sensor module for detecting at least one of RR, TV, PIP, or EtCO2.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the sensor module comprises at least one of a volume sensor, a pressure sensor, or a CO2 sensor.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises: a CO2 sensor; and a sampling line, coupled to the mechanical ventilation airway device and coupled to the CO2 sensor, configured to deliver samples of CO2 released by the respiratory system of the pediatric patient to the CO2 sensor.
8. A method for confirming a type of a mechanical ventilation airway device used during an anesthesia procedure on a pediatric patient, the mechanical ventilation airway device configured to generate and regulate a flow of air to a respiratory system of the pediatric patient during the anesthesia procedure, the method comprising: monitoring, with a monitoring device, respiratory parameters of the pediatric patient during the anesthesia procedure, the respiratory parameters including respiratory rate (RR), tidal volume (TV), end-tidal carbon dioxide (EtCO2), and peak inspiratory pressure (PIP); recording, with the monitoring device, a mechanical ventilation airway device selection for the pediatric patient; identifying, with a processor, the type of the mechanical ventilation airway device by applying a machine-learning data mining algorithm stored in a memory to the monitored respiratory parameters, the machine-learning data mining algorithm configured to determine the type of mechanical ventilation airway device used for the anesthesia; determining, with the processor, consistency of the identified type of mechanical ventilation airway device and the mechanical ventilation airway device selection; transmitting, with the processor to an alert generator, an alert signal if the identified type of mechanical ventilation airway device and the mechanical ventilation airway device selection are inconsistent; and issuing, with the alert generator, an alert in response to the alert signal.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the steps of: transmitting, with the processor, a confirmation signal to the alert generator if the identified type of mechanical ventilation airway device and the mechanical ventilation airway device selection are consistent; and issuing, with the alert generator, a confirmation message in response to the confirmation signal.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the machine-learning data mining algorithm is at least one of a boosted trees (BT) classifier, a support vector machine (SVM) classifier, or a neural network (NN) classifier.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the monitoring device is one of an anesthesia machine, a respiratory function monitor, or a mechanical ventilator.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising sensing, with a sensor module of the monitoring device, at least one of the respiratory parameters RR, TV, PIP, or EtCO2.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: sampling, with a sampling line coupled to the selected mechanical ventilation airway device and coupled to a CO2 sensor of the sensor module, CO2 released by the respiratory system of the pediatric patient; delivering, with the sampling line, the sampled CO2 to the CO2 sensor; and sensing, with the CO2 sensor, the delivered CO2.
14. A system for detecting a time of intubation with an endotracheal tube during an anesthesia procedure on a pediatric patient, the system comprising: a monitoring device configured to: monitor respiratory parameters of the pediatric patient during the anesthesia procedure, the respiratory parameters of the anesthesia procedure including tidal volume (TV), end-tidal carbon dioxide (ETCO2), and peak inspiratory pressure (PIP), and record a confirmed endotracheal intubation time; and a processor coupled to the monitoring device, the processor configured to: receive the monitored respiratory parameters of the pediatric patient from the monitoring device, identify at least one candidate time during the anesthesia procedure by periodically calculating a plurality of statistical features for the monitored EtCO2 respiratory parameter, confirm one of the at least one candidate time as the confirmed endotracheal intubation time by determining a mean increase in the TV respiratory parameter or the PIP respiratory parameter at each of the at least one candidate time and selecting the candidate time corresponding to the largest mean increase in the TV respiratory parameter or the PIP respiratory parameter, and transmit, to the monitoring device, the confirmed endotracheal intubation time.
15. The system of claim 14, further comprising: an alert generator configured to: receive an alert signal; and issue an alert in response to the alert signal wherein the processor is further coupled to the alert generator and is configured to transmit, to the alert generator, the alert signal if the processor cannot detect the time of endotracheal intubation or if the processor cannot confirm the detection of the time of endotracheal intubation.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein: the processor is further coupled to the alert generator and is configured to transmit a confirmation signal to the alert generator if the detection of the time of endotracheal intubation is confirmed; and the alert generator is further configured to issue a confirmation message in response to the confirmation signal.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the monitoring device is one of an anesthesia machine, a respiratory function monitor, or a mechanical ventilator.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the monitoring device comprises a sensor module configured to detect at least one of TV, PIP, or EtCO2.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the sensor module comprises at least one of a volume sensor, a pressure sensor, or a CO2 sensor.
20. The system of claim 14, wherein the system comprises: a CO2 sensor; and a sampling line coupled to the CO2 sensor and coupled to the endotracheal tube, configured to deliver samples of CO2 released by the respiratory system of the pediatric patient to the CO2 sensor.
21. 21-31. (canceled).
</claims>
</document>
