<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-09-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/332,G06F16/35,G06F16/93,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GROUPON
</assignee>

<inventors>
PENDAR, NICK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56556433
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-TERM QUERY SUBSUMPTION FOR DOCUMENT CLASSIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
In general, embodiments of the present invention provide systems, methods and computer readable media for generating an optimal classifying query set for categorizing and/or labeling textual data based on a query subsumption calculus to determine, given two queries, whether one of the queries subsumes another. In one aspect, a method includes generating a group of determining queries based on analyzing text within a document; receiving a group of classifying queries; and, for each determining query within the group of determining queries, determining whether at least one of the classifying queries is subsumed by the determining query; and updating the group of classifying queries in an instance in which the classifying query is subsumed by the determining query.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-27. (canceled)
28. A system, comprising one or more computers and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more computers to: identify a classifying queries subset associated with document text within a document, wherein the classifying queries subset is a subset of a classifying queries group representing a particular category for the document text; calculate a document categorization score based on a normalized sum of respective performance metrics for respective classifying queries of the classifying queries subset; and associate the document with the particular category represented by the classifying queries group in an instance in which the document categorization score is greater than a categorization threshold value.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein each classifying query of the classifying queries subset subsumes at least one query associated with at least one term identified within the document text.
30. The system of claim 28, wherein the one or more storage devices store instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to further cause the one or more computers to: generate a determining queries group for the document text within a document, wherein each determining query within the determining queries group includes at least one term identified within the document text.
31. The system of claim 30, wherein the one or more storage devices store instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to further cause the one or more computers to: update the classifying queries group in an instance in which a classifying query of the classifying queries subset is subsumed by a determining query of the determining queries group.
32. The system of claim 30, wherein the one or more storage devices store instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to further cause the one or more computers to: update the classifying queries group in response to a determination that a classifying query of the classifying queries subset and a determining query of the determining queries group share at least two common terms.
33. The system of claim 30, wherein the one or more storage devices store instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to further cause the one or more computers to: add a determining query of the determining queries group to the classifying queries group in response to a determination that a classifying query of the classifying queries subset is subsumed by the determining query.
34. The system of claim 30, wherein the one or more storage devices store instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to further cause the one or more computers to: remove a classifying query from the classifying queries subset in response to a determination that the classifying query is subsumed by a determining query of the determining queries group.
35. A computer-implemented method, comprising: identifying, by a computing device comprising a processor, a classifying queries subset associated with document text within a document, wherein the classifying queries subset is a subset of a classifying queries group representing a particular category for the document text; calculating, by the computing device, a document categorization score based on a normalized sum of respective performance metrics for respective classifying queries of the classifying queries subset; and associating, by the computing device, the document with the particular category represented by the classifying queries group in an instance in which the document categorization score is greater than a categorization threshold value.
36. The computer-implemented method of claim 35, wherein the identifying the classifying queries subset comprises determining that a classifying query of the classifying queries subset subsumes at least one query associated with at least one term identified within the document text.
37. The computer-implemented method of claim 35, further comprising: generating, by the computing device, a determining queries group for the document text within a document, wherein each determining query within the determining queries group includes at least one term identified within the document text.
38. The computer-implemented method of claim 37, further comprising: updating, by the computing device, the classifying queries group in an instance in which a classifying query of the classifying queries subset is subsumed by a determining query of the determining queries group.
39. The computer-implemented method of claim 37, further comprising: updating, by the computing device, the classifying queries group in response to a determination that a classifying query of the classifying queries subset and a determining query of the determining queries group share at least two common terms.
40. The computer-implemented method of claim 37, further comprising: adding, by the computing device, a determining query of the determining queries group to the classifying queries group in response to a determination that a classifying query of the classifying queries subset is subsumed by the determining query.
41. The computer-implemented method of claim 37, further comprising: removing, by the computing device, a classifying query from the classifying queries subset in response to a determination that the classifying query is subsumed by a determining query of the determining queries group.
42. A computer program product, stored on a computer readable medium, comprising instructions that when executed by one or more computers cause the one or more computers to: identify a classifying queries subset associated with document text within a document, wherein the classifying queries subset is a subset of a classifying queries group representing a particular category for the document text; calculate a document categorization score based on a normalized sum of respective performance metrics for respective classifying queries of the classifying queries subset; and associate the document with the particular category represented by the classifying queries group in an instance in which the document categorization score is greater than a categorization threshold value.
43. The computer program product of claim 42, further comprising instructions that when executed by the one or more computers cause the one or more computers to: generate a determining queries group for the document text within a document, wherein each determining query within the determining queries group includes at least one term identified within the document text.
44. The computer program product of claim 42, further comprising instructions that when executed by the one or more computers cause the one or more computers to: update the classifying queries group in an instance in which a classifying query of the classifying queries subset is subsumed by a determining query of the determining queries group.
45. The computer program product of claim 44, further comprising instructions that when executed by the one or more computers cause the one or more computers to: update the classifying queries group in response to a determination that a classifying query of the classifying queries subset and a determining query of the determining queries group share at least two common terms.
46. The computer program product of claim 44, further comprising instructions that when executed by the one or more computers cause the one or more computers to: add a determining query of the determining queries group to the classifying queries group in response to a determination that a classifying query of the classifying queries subset is subsumed by the determining query.
47. The computer program product of claim 44, further comprising instructions that when executed by the one or more computers cause the one or more computers to: remove a classifying query from the classifying queries subset in response to a determination that the classifying query is subsumed by a determining query of the determining queries group.
</claims>
</document>
