<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VISA INTERNATIONAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
Huong Ly, Phan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72423389
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER DETERMINED ELECTRONIC OFFERS BASED ON TRAVEL PATHS
</title>

<abstract>
The path the consumer takes on a commute may be determined and merchants that desire the group of consumers and that are on the commuting path may allow merchants to provide advertisements and offers to desired consumer group that have indicated they desire offers and advertisements.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising a server including one or more processors, the one or more processors programmed or configured for computer based offer determination comprising: receiving transaction data for a user; determining classifications of the user based on the transaction data; storing the classifications in a user classification database; receiving transit data for the user wherein the transit data comprises at least one of: a first location; a first time; a second location; and a second time; analyzing possible transit paths from the first location to the second location; determining a ranking of likely transit paths from the first location to the second location; analyzing service providers along a highest ranked path to create a relevant service provider list; for the service providers on the relevant service provider list: determining service provider communications (offers/sales) which match the classifications for the user; determining a display time comprising determining a time at which a user will pass a first service provider in a relevant range of the highest ranked path; and communicating the service provider communications to the user at the display time.
2. The computer system of claim 1, further comprising: receiving responses from the user to the service provider communications; storing the responses in a memory; using an algorithm which learns from relevant input data sets to analyze the responses; ranking the responses; and adjusting future communications based on the ranking of the responses.
3. The computer system of claim 1, further comprising: receiving an inquiry from a service provider for users that meet criteria; determining a set of users from a user set that meet the criteria; anonymizing the set of users; and communicating details on the set of users to the service provider.
4. The computer system of claim 3, further comprising selecting a communication for the service provider that matches the criteria; and communicating the communication that was selected to the set of users.
5. The computer system of claim 1, wherein determining classifications of the user based on the transaction data further comprises: receiving a set of transaction data for a plurality of users; using an algorithm which learns from past relevant data sets to perform an analysis of the transaction data for the users according to a criteria; separating the plurality of users into groups based on the analysis.
6. The computer system of claim 5, wherein the criteria is created by a service provider.
7. The computer system of claim 1 wherein determining a ranking of likely transit paths from the first location to the second location further comprises: receiving a set of first travel locations, first travel times, second travel locations and second travel times; determining based on public transportation reports which path is possible; and determining based on which path is possible, which path which is most likely.
8. The computer system of claim 7, further comprising: analyzing users that purchased public transportation and goods/services from a service provider at a service provider location during a similar time period; determining a possible path that includes the first location, the service provider location and the second location; determining public transportation route that similar to the possible path; and ranking the public transportation route as a likely transportation route.
9. A computer based method for physically configuring a processor for computer based offer determination comprising computer executable blocks for: receiving transaction data for a user; determining classifications of the user based on the transaction data; storing the classifications in a user classification database; receiving transit data for the user wherein the transit data comprises at least one of: a first location; a first time; a second location; and a second time; analyzing possible transit paths from the first location to the second location; determining a ranking of likely transit paths from the first location to the second location; analyzing service providers along a highest ranked path to create a relevant service provider list; for the service providers on the relevant service provider list: determining service provider communications (offers/sales) which match the classifications for the user; determining a display time comprising determining a time at which a user will pass a first service provider in a relevant range of the highest ranked path; and communicating the service provider communications to the user at the display time.
10. The computer based method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving responses from the user to the service provider communications; storing the responses in a memory; using an algorithm which learns from relevant input data sets to analyze the responses; ranking the responses; and adjusting future communications based on the ranking of the responses.
11. The computer based method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving an inquiry from a service provider for users that meet criteria; determining a set of users from a user set that meet the criteria; anonymizing the set of users; and communicating details on the set of users to the service provider.
12. The computer based method of claim 11, further comprising selecting a communication for the service provider that matches the criteria; and communicating the communication that was selected to the user set.
13. The computer based method of claim 9, wherein determining classifications of the user based on the transaction data further comprises: receiving a set of transaction data for a plurality of users; using an algorithm which learns from past relevant data sets to perform an analysis of the transaction data for the users according to a criteria; separating the plurality of users into groups based on the analysis.
14. The computer based method of claim 11, wherein the criteria is created by a service provider.
15. The computer based method of claim 9, wherein determining a ranking of likely transit paths from the first location to the second location further comprises: receiving a set of first travel locations, first travel times, second travel locations and second travel times; determining based on public transportation reports which path is possible; and determining based on which path is possible, which path which is most likely.
16. The computer based method of claim 15, further comprising: analyzing users that purchased public transportation and goods/services from a service provider at a service provider location during a similar time period; determining a possible path that includes the first location, the service provider location and the second location; determining public transportation route that similar to the possible path; and ranking the public transportation route as a likely transportation route.
17. A tangible computer readable medium comprising computer readable instruction for determining computer based offers, the instructions comprising computer blocks for: receiving transaction data for a user; determining classifications of the user based on the transaction data; storing the classifications in a user classification database; receiving transit data for the user wherein the transit data comprises at least one of: a first location; a first time; a second location; and a second time; analyzing possible transit paths from the first location to the second location; determining a ranking of likely transit paths from the first location to the second location; analyzing service providers along a highest ranked path to create a relevant service provider list; for the service providers on the relevant service provider list: determining service provider communications (offers/sales) which match the classifications for the user; determining a display time comprising determining a time at which a user will pass a first service provider in a relevant range of the highest ranked path; and communicating the service provider communications to the user at the display time.
18. The tangible computer readable medium of claim 17, further comprising blocks for: receiving responses from the user to the service provider communications; storing the responses in a memory; using an algorithm which learns from relevant input data sets to analyze the responses; ranking the responses; and adjusting future communications based on the ranking of the responses.
19. The tangible computer readable medium of claim 17, further comprising blocks for: receiving an inquiry from a service provider for users that meet criteria; determining a set of users from a user set that meet the criteria; anonymizing the set of users; and communicating details on the set of users to the service provider.
20. The tangible computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein determining a ranking of likely transit paths from the first location to the second location further comprises: receiving a set of first travel locations, first travel times, second travel locations and second travel times; determining based on public transportation reports which path is possible; determining based on which path is possible, which path which is most likely; analyzing users that purchased public transportation and goods/services from a service provider at a service provider location during a similar time period; determining a possible path that includes the first location, the service provider location and the second location; determining public transportation route that similar to the possible path; and ranking the public transportation route as a likely transportation route.
</claims>
</document>
