<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/20,H04M1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FOTONATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BIGIOI, PETRONEL
ANDORKO, ISTVAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73651618
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC DEVICE FOR PERFORMING BIOMETRIC IDENTIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure describes, in part, devices and techniques for performing biometric identification for an electronic device. For instance, the electronic device may include one or more near-infrared illuminators that output near-infrared light. The one or more near-infrared illuminators may be located in or on a bezel and/or a display of the electronic device. The electronic device may also include an imaging device that generates first image data representing the near-infrared light and visible light. After generating the image data, the electronic device may process the first image data using one or more image processing techniques to generate second image data representing a near-infrared image and third image data representing a visible image. The electronic device may then analyze the second image data and/or the third image data using one or more biometric identification techniques. Based on the analysis, the electronic device may identify a person possessing the electronic device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A mobile device comprising: a display, the display including one or more visible light panels and one or more near-infrared light panels; a camera; one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the mobile device to perform operations comprising: causing the one or more near-infrared light panels to output near-infrared light; generating first image data using the camera, the first image data representing the near-infrared light and visible light; processing, by an image processor, the first image data in order generate: second image data representing a near-infrared image; and third image data representing a visible image; processing, by a facial recognition component, the second image data; and determining, based at least in part on the processing by the facial recognition component, that the second image data represents a face of a person.
2. The mobile device as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a bezel; and at least one near-infrared illuminator is located in or on the bezel.
3. The mobile device as recited in claim 2, the operations further comprising: causing the at least one near-infrared illuminator to output additional near-infrared light, and wherein the first image data further represents the additional near-infrared light.
4. The mobile device as recited in claim 1, the operations further comprising: processing, by an iris recognition component, the second image data; and determining, based at least in part on the processing by the iris recognition, that the second image data represents one or more eyes of the person.
5. The mobile device as recited in claim 1, wherein the image processor is a first image processor, and wherein the operations further comprise: processing, by a second image processor, the third image data in order to generate fourth image data representing an additional visible image; and presenting the additional visible image using the display.
6. The mobile device as recited in claim 5, the operations further comprising: processing, by a facial recognition component, the fourth image data; and determining, based at least in part on the processing by the facial recognition component, that the fourth image data represents the face of the person.
7. An electronic device comprising: an imaging device; one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the electronic device to perform operations comprising: generating first image data using the imaging device, the first image data representing near-infrared light and visible light; generating, by an image processor and based at least in part on the first image data, second image data representing a near-infrared image; generating, by the image processor and based at least in part on the first image data, third image data representing a visible image; and determining that the second image data represents a person.
8. The electronic device as recited in claim 7, further comprising: a display, the display including one or more near-infrared illuminators, and wherein the operations further comprise causing the one or more near-infrared pixels to output the near-infrared light.
9. The electronic device as recited in claim 8, wherein the one or more near-infrared illuminators include one or more near-infrared panels of a backlight of the display.
10. The electronic device as recited in claim 7, further comprising: a bezel; and at least one non-infrared illuminator located in or on the bezel, and wherein the operations further comprise causing the at least one non-infrared illuminator to output the near-infrared light.
11. The electronic device as recited in claim 7, further comprising: a display, the display including one or more near-infrared pixels; a bezel; and at least one non-infrared illuminator located in or on the bezel, and wherein the operations further comprise: causing the one or more near-infrared pixels to output a first portion of the near-infrared light; and causing the at least one non-infrared illuminator to output a second portion of the near-infrared light.
12. The electronic device as recited in claim 7, wherein the determining that the second image data represents the person comprises: processing, by a facial recognition component, the second image data; and determining, based at least in part on the processing by the facial recognition component, that the second image data represents a face of the person.
13. The electronic device as recited in claim 7, wherein the determining that the second image data represents the person comprises: processing, by an iris recognition component, the second image data; and determining, based at least in part on the processing by the iris recognition component, that the second image data represents one or more eyes of the person.
14. The electronic device as recited in claim 7, wherein the determining that the second image data represents the person comprises: processing, by a facial recognition component, the second image data; determining, based at least in part on the processing by the facial recognition component, that the second image data represents a face of the person; processing, by an iris recognition component, the second image data; and determining, based at least in part on the processing by the iris recognition component, that the second image data represents one or more eyes of the person.
15. The electronic device as recited in claim 7, wherein the image processor is a first image processor, and wherein the operations further comprise generating, by a second image processor and based at least in part on the third image data, fourth image data representing an additional visible image.
16. The electronic device as recited in claim 15, the operations further comprising determining that the fourth image data represents the person.
17. A method comprising: generating first image data using an imaging device of an electronic device, the first image data representing near-infrared light output by the electronic device and visible light; generating, using an image processor and based at least in part on the first image data, second image data representing a near-infrared image; generating, using the image processor and based at least in part on the first image data, third image data representing a visible image; and determining that the second image data represents a person.
18. The method as recited in claim 17, further comprising outputting, using one or more near-infrared panels located within a display of the electronic device, the near-infrared light.
19. The method as recited in claim 17, wherein the determining that the second image data represents the person comprises: processing, by a facial recognition component, the second image data; and determining, based at least in part on the processing by the facial recognition component, that the second image data represents a face of the person.
20. The method as recited in claim 17, wherein the determining that the second image data represents the person comprises: processing, by an iris recognition component, the second image data; and determining, based at least in part on the processing by the iris recognition component, that the second image data represents one or more eyes of the person.
</claims>
</document>
