<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/16,G06N3/04,G06N3/063
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CIRRUS LOGIC INTERNATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR
</assignee>

<inventors>
LESSO, JOHN PAUL
MAGRATH, ANTHONY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514591
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NEURONS FOR ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to a neuron for an artificial neural network, the neuron comprising: a first dot product engine and a second dot product engine. The first dot product engine is operative to: receive a first set of weights; receive a set of inputs; and calculate the dot product of the set of inputs and the first set of weights to generate a first dot product engine output. The second dot product engine is operative to: receive a second set of weights; receive the set of inputs; and calculate the dot product of the set of inputs and the second set of weights to generate a second dot product engine output; The neuron further comprises a combiner operative to combine the first dot product engine output and the second dot product engine output to generate a combined output, and an activation function module arranged to apply an activation function to the combined output to generate a neuron output.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-30. (canceled)
31. A neuron for an artificial neural network, the neuron comprising: a first dot product engine operative to: receive a first set of weights; receive a set of inputs; and calculate the dot product of the set of inputs and the first set of weights to generate a first dot product engine output; a second dot product engine operative to: receive a second set of weights; receive the set of inputs; and calculate the dot product of the set of inputs and the second set of weights to generate a second dot product engine output; and a combiner operative to combine the first dot product engine output and the second dot product engine output to generate a combined output, the neuron further comprising an activation function module arranged to apply an activation function to the combined output to generate a neuron output.
32. A neuron according to claim 31 wherein the second dot product engine is selectively operable.
33. A neuron according to claim 32 wherein the second dot product engine is selectively operable based on the first dot product engine output.
34. A neuron according to claim 33 further comprising a processing unit operable to process the first dot product engine output and to output an enable signal to the second dot product engine if the processing unit determines, based on the processing of the first dot product engine output, that the second dot product engine should be enabled.
35. A neuron according to claim 34 wherein the combiner is selectively operable, and wherein the processing unit is operable to output an enable signal to the combiner if the processing unit determines, based on the processing of the first dot product engine output, that the second dot product engine should be enabled.
36. A neuron according to claim 31 wherein the first and second dot product engines are analog dot product engines or wherein the first dot product engine is an analog dot product engine and the second dot product engine is a digital dot product engine.
37. A neuron according to claim 36 further comprising a process control monitor operative to monitor the first dot product engine output and the second dot product engine output and to apply a gain to one or both of the first dot product engine output and the second dot product engine output to compensate for gain variation or difference between the first dot product engine output and the second dot product engine output.
38. A neuron according to claim 31 wherein the first dot product engine has a first output range and the second dot product engine has a second output range, wherein the second output range is larger than the first output range.
39. A neuron according to claim 31 wherein the first and second sets of weights are derived from a master set of weights intended to be applied to the inputs, wherein each weight of the first set of weights represents one or more most significant bits (MSBs) of a corresponding weight of the master set of weights and each weight of the second set of weights represents one or more least significant bits (LSBs) of the corresponding weight of the master set of weights.
40. A neuron according to claim 39 wherein: the second dot product engine is selectively operable to calculate the dot product of one or more most significant bits of each input of the set of inputs and the second set of weights to generate the second dot product engine output.
41. A neuron according to claim 31 wherein the second dot product engine is configured to implement a trimming function or a calibration function for the first dot product engine.
42. A neuron according to claim 31 wherein the weights of the second set of weights have a different quantisation level than the weights of the first set of weights.
43. A neuron according to claim 42 wherein the second dot product engine is configured to correct quantisation error of the first set of weights used by the first dot product engine.
44. A neuron according to claim 31 wherein the first and second dot product engines are structurally or functionally different from each other.
45. A neuron for an artificial neural network, the neuron comprising: an analog dot product engine operative to: receive a first set of weights; receive a set of inputs; and calculate the dot product of the set of inputs and the first set of weights to generate an analog dot product engine output; a digital dot product engine operative to: receive a second set of weights; receive the set of inputs; and calculate the dot product of the set of inputs and the second set of weights to generate a digital dot product engine output; and a combiner operative to combine the analog dot product engine output and the digital dot product engine output to generate a combined output, the neuron further comprising an activation function module arranged to apply an activation function to the combined output to generate a neuron output.
46. An integrated circuit comprising a neuron according to claim 31.
47. An artificial neural network system comprising: a first plurality of neural network computing tiles having a first resolution; a second plurality of neural network computing tiles having a second resolution, wherein the second resolution is different from the first resolution; a configurable data bus arranged to selectively couple computing tiles of the first plurality with computing tiles of the second plurality of computing tiles; and a controller arranged to control switching of the configurable data bus such that the system is arranged to implement neural network computing of configurable resolution.
48. An artificial neural network system according to claim 47 wherein the neural network computing tiles comprise Vector Dot Product (VDP) computing units.
49. An artificial neural network system according to claim 47 wherein the first plurality of neural network computing tiles is arranged in a first array, and the second plurality of neural network computing tiles is arranged in a second array, wherein one of the first and second arrays comprises an analog computing array and the other of the first and second arrays comprises a digital computing array.
50. An artificial neural network system according to claim 47 wherein the artificial neural network system comprises a combiner coupled with the data bus to combine the output of at least one tile of the first plurality and at least one tile of the second plurality.
</claims>
</document>
