<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FMR
</assignee>

<inventors>
Saket, Srijan
Gupta, Manish
Biswas, Rajib
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606228
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computer Systems and Methods for Representatives to Monitor and Intervene in Robot Conversation
</title>

<abstract>
A computerized method of assessing a chatbot conversation includes: extracting one or more messages from the conversation; determining, based on the one or more messages, an existing business opportunity value score using a business opportunity state detector module; determining, based on the one or more messages, an existing user experience score using a user experience state detector module of the computing device; determining, based on the one or more messages, a future business opportunity value score using a future business opportunity predictor module of the computing device; determining, based on the one or more messages, a future user experience score using the future user experience predictor module of the computing device; calculating a composite score indicating whether human intervention in the chatbot conversation is desirable; and generating a display signal including a status indicator, for review by a human agent, reflecting a desirability of human intervention in the chatbot conversation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computerized method of assessing a chatbot conversation with a user, the computerized method comprising: extracting, by a computing device, one or more textual messages from the chatbot conversation; determining, by the computing device, based on the one or more textual messages, an existing business opportunity value score after a textual message occurs in the chatbot conversation using a business opportunity state detector module of the computing device; determining, by the computing device, based on the one or more textual messages, an existing user experience score after the textual message occurs in the chatbot conversation using a user experience state detector module of the computing device; determining, by the computing device, based on the one or more textual messages, a future business opportunity value score after the textual message occurs in the chatbot conversation using a future business state predictor module of the computing device; determining, by the computing device, based on the one or more textual messages, a future user experience score after the textual message occurs in the chatbot conversation using a future experience state predictor module of the computing device; calculating, by the computing device, for the chatbot conversation, a composite score indicating whether human intervention in the chatbot conversation is desirable, the composite score based on the existing business opportunity value score, the existing user experience score, the future business opportunity value score, and the future user experience score; and generating, by the computing device, a display signal including a status indicator, for review by a human agent, reflecting a desirability of human intervention in the chatbot conversation, a value of the status indicator based on the composite score.
2. The method of claim 1 further including displaying, by a screen in electronic communication with the computing device, the status indicator based on the display signal.
3. The method of claim 1 further including providing, by the computing device, a hyperlink permitting the human agent to monitor the chatbot conversation in real-time.
4. The method of claim 1 further including determining, by the computing device, a new value for each of the existing user experience score, the existing business opportunity value score, the future business opportunity value score, the future user experience score, and the composite score each time a new message occurs; and updating, by the computing device, the value of the status indicator accordingly.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the value of the status indicator is one of multiple possible values, each possible value corresponding to a range of possible composite scores falling within an upper boundary and a lower boundary.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein the upper and lower boundaries are adjustable by the human agent or another operator to accommodate varying levels of incoming customer conversation traffic.
7. The method of claim 1 further including providing, by the computing device, a feedback signal including a prediction of at least one of (i) an experience metric for the user; (ii) a business opportunity metric associated with the user, based on expected business activity by the user during a specified interval following termination of the chatbot conversation; or (iii) one or more follow up questions by the user at one or more stages of the chatbot conversation, based on a textual representation of the chatbot conversation at a corresponding point in time.
8. The method of claim 1 further including performing, by the computing device, each step of the method for multiple simultaneous chatbot conversations.
9. A computerized method of training a business opportunity state detector module, the computerized method comprising: extracting, by a computing device, one or more textual messages sent by a user during one or more chatbot conversations; determining, by the computing device, for each of the one or more textual messages, a user intent using an intent classifier module of the computing device; receiving, by the computing device, for each chatbot conversation, user business activity information reflecting business activity of the user for a period of time after termination of the chatbot conversation; calculating, by the computing device, for each chatbot conversation, a business value corresponding to the chatbot conversation for the period of time after termination of the chatbot conversation, the business value based on the one or more user intents and the user business activity information; calculating, by the computing device, a normalized business value for each user intent; and generating, by the computing device, a mapping file correlating each user intent with each corresponding normalized business value.
10. The method of claim 9 further including calculating, by the computing device, using the mapping file, a new business value each time a new message occurs in an ongoing chatbot conversation.
11. The method of claim 9 wherein the textual messages are included within user chat logs or phone call transcripts.
12. The method of claim 9 wherein the business activity includes information about at least one of the user's opening an account, purchasing a product, requesting an additional service, closing an account, adding assets, removing assets, or making an informational inquiry.
13. The method of claim 9 wherein determining the one or more user intents includes extracting business intents and filtering out other intents including social intents.
14. The method of claim 9 wherein extracting the one or more textual messages includes creating a table of extracted user messages, each user message including a corresponding session identifier and intent identifier.
15. A computerized method of training a user experience state detector module, the computerized method comprising: extracting, by a computing device, one or more textual messages sent by a user during one or more chatbot conversations; analyzing, by the computing device, each chatbot conversation for a presence of one or more words evidencing emotion by the user via cross-referencing the chatbot conversation with a word list stored in a database in electronic communication with the computing device; training, by the computing device, an emotional state classifier module for predicting an emotional state of the user based on the one or more textual messages; analyzing, by the computing device, each chatbot conversation for a presence of interactions signals evidencing a user experience of the user; and training, by the computing device, an experience state classifier module for predicting an experience state of the user based on the one or more words evidencing emotion by the user and the interactions signals.
16. The computerized method of claim 15 further including calculating, by the computing device, an experience state each time a new message occurs in an ongoing chatbot conversation.
17. The computerized method of claim 15 further including predicting, by the computing device, using an emotional state classifier module, an emotional state of the user based on the chatbot conversation.
18. The computerized method of claim 15 wherein the emotional state is categorized into one of joy, fear, surprise, sadness, anger, gratitude, disgust, and neutrality.
19. The computerized method of claim 15 wherein the user experience state classifier module predicts the user experience state as either positive, negative, or neutral.
20. A computerized method of training a future business state predictor module, the computerized method comprising: extracting, by a computing device, one or more textual messages sent by a user during one or more chatbot conversations; determining, by the computing device, for each of the one or more textual messages, a user intent using an intent classifier module of the computing device; and training, by the computing device, a conversation predictor model using a sequence of one or more user intents across different chatbot conversations.
21. The method of claim 20 further including calculating, by the computing device, a future business state each time a new message occurs in an ongoing chatbot conversation.
22. The method of claim 20 further including (i) predicting, by the computing device, using the conversation predictor model, a probability of each unique intent occurring for each of a fixed number of future messages (k); (ii) based on the probability for each unique intent occurring and an intent-business opportunity value map, calculating, by the computing device, an expected business value for each future message; and (iii) based on the expected business value for each future message, calculating, by the computing device, a weighted sum of expected business values from 1 to k, thereby determining an expected value of future business opportunity for the session.
23. A computerized method of training a future experience state predictor module, the computerized method comprising: extracting, by a computing device, one or more textual messages sent by a user during one or more chatbot conversations; determining, by the computing device, for each of the one or more textual messages, a user intent using an intent classifier module of the computing device; and training, by the computing device, a conversation predictor model using the sequences of one or more user intents across different chatbot conversations.
24. The computerized method of claim 23 further including calculating, by the computing device, the future experience state each time a new message occurs in an ongoing chatbot conversation
25. The computerized method of claim 23 further including (i) predicting, by the computing device, using the conversation predictor model, a probability of each unique intent occurring for each of a fixed number of future messages (k); (ii) based on the probability for each unique intent occurring and an intent-user experience value map, calculating, by the computing device, an expected user experience value for each future message; and (iii) based on the expected user experience value for each future message, calculating, by the computing device, a weighted sum of expected user experience values from 1 to k, thereby determining an expected value of user experience for the session.
26. A computerized system for assessing a chatbot conversation with a user, the computerized system comprising: a computing device capable of extracting one or more textual messages from the chatbot conversation, the computing device including: (i) a user chat interface module for receiving user query messages and generating chatbot reply messages; (ii) a business opportunity state detector module for determining, based on the one or more textual messages, an existing business opportunity value score after a textual message occurs in the chatbot conversation; (iii) a user experience state detector module for determining, based on the one or more textual messages, an existing user experience score after a textual message occurs in the chatbot conversation; and (iv) a future business opportunity state predictor module for determining, based on the one or more textual messages, a future business opportunity value score after a textual message occurs in the chatbot conversation; and (v) a future user experience state predictor module for determining, based on the one or more textual messages, a future user experience score after a textual message occurs in the chatbot conversation, the computing device further capable of (i) calculating a composite score indicating whether human intervention in the chatbot conversation is desirable, the composite score based on the existing business opportunity value score, the existing user experience score, the future business opportunity value score, and the future user experience score, and (ii) generating a display signal including a status indicator, for review by a human agent, reflecting a desirability of human intervention in the chatbot conversation, a value of the status indicator based on the composite score; and a database in electronic communication with the computing device, the database including textual files of one or more chatbot conversations.
27. The computerized system of claim 26 further including a screen, in electronic communication with the computing device, capable of displaying the status indicator based on the display signal.
28. The computerized system of claim 26 wherein the computing device further includes a human intervention need score generating module for calculating the composite score.
29. The computerized system of claim 26 wherein the computing device further includes a feedback signal generator for generating and sending a feedback signal indicating an user experience to a virtual agent.
30. The computerized system of claim 26 wherein the computing device further includes a lead signal generator for providing a signal to a dashboard for monitoring by a virtual agent.
31. The computerized system of claim 26 wherein the computing device periodically updates at least one of the conversation predictor module, existing business opportunity classifier module, future business opportunity classifier module, current experience classifier module, or future experience classifier module based on further accumulated data.
32. The computerized system of claim 26 wherein the computing device periodically re-trains at least one of the conversation predictor module, existing business opportunity classifier module, future business opportunity classifier module, current experience classifier module, or future experience classifier module based on feedback from the feedback signal generator.
33. The computerized system of claim 26 wherein the computing device updates the business opportunity state predictor module periodically based on further accumulated textual messages from the chatbot conversation.
34. The computerized system of claim 26 wherein the computing device further generates predictions of future user intents to occur in the chatbot conversation and compares the predictions to real subsequent chatbot conversation messages to update a conversation predictor module of the computerized system accordingly.
</claims>
</document>
