<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/215,G06F16/2455,G06F16/25,G06F16/483
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOXWELL, STEPHEN A.
VERNIER, STANLEY J.
BRAKE, KYLE M.
FROST, KEITH G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73245085
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Duplicate Multimedia Entity Identification and Processing
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments relate to a computer platform and corresponding process and program code to assess multimedia files with respect to similarity and duplicate media content. Data streams are converted into sequences of events, and object representation within the streams is identified and subject to processing with respect to the event sequences. A similarity assessment is conducted between two or more of the data streams, and a corresponding distance measurement to quantify similarity is produced. Duplicate data is selectively identified in response to the similarity assessment and the produced distance measurement.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising: a processing unit operatively coupled to memory; a knowledge engine in communication with the processing unit, the knowledge engine to identify duplicate media content, the knowledge engine comprising: a data stream manager to convert a first data stream into a first sequence of events and to convert a second data stream into a second sequence of events, the first data stream having at least one first object and the second data stream having at least one second object; and an assessment manager to conduct a similarity assessment between the first and second data streams, including compare the first and second sequence of events, the similarity assessment to produce a distance measurement between the first object and the second object, the distance measurement to quantify similarity between the first and second sequence of events; and duplicate data selectively identified in the first and second sequence of events responsive to the similarity assessment and produced distance measurement.
2. The computer system of claim 1, further comprising the data stream manager to identify one or more images in each of the data streams and to process the identified one or more images into one or more object representations.
3. The computer system of claim 2, further comprising a representation manager to form a first sequence of tuple representations for the first data stream and to form a second sequence of tuple representations for the second data stream, and the representation manager to sequentially order the first and second sequences of tuple representations based time on stamp metadata associated with each representation.
4. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the distance measurement reflects a quantity of edits required to create equivalency between the first and second sequence of events.
5. The computer system of claim 4, further comprising the data stream manager to identify audio in each of the data streams and to process the identified audio into first and second text representations.
6. The computer system of claim 5, wherein at least a first subset of tuple representations includes a set of elements selected from the group consisting of: multiple words per object and multiple objects per word.
7. A computer program product for similarity assessment, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, the program code executable by a processor to: convert a first data stream into a first sequence of events and convert a second data stream into a second sequence of events, the first data stream having at least one first object and the second data stream having at least one second object; conduct a similarity assessment between the first and second data streams, including compare the first and second sequence of events, the similarity assessment to produce a distance measurement between the first object and the second object, the distance measurement to quantify similarity between the first and second sequence of events; and duplicate data selectively identified in the first and second sequence of events responsive to the similarity assessment and produced distance measurement.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, further comprising program code to identify one or more images in each of the data streams and process the identified one or more images into one or more object representations.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising program code to form a first sequence of tuple representations for the first data stream and to form a second sequence of tuple representations for the second data stream, and the representation manager to sequentially order the first and second sequences of tuple representations based time on stamp metadata associated with each representation.
10. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the distance measurement reflects a quantity of edits required to create equivalency between the first and second sequence of events.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, further comprising program code to identify audio in each of the data streams and process the identified audio into first and second text representations.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein at least a first subset of tuple representations includes a set of elements selected from the group consisting of: multiple words per object and multiple objects per word.
13. A method comprising: converting a first data stream into a first sequence of events and a second data stream into a second sequence of events, the first data stream having at least one first object and the second data stream having at least one second object; conducting a similarity assessment between the first and second data streams, including comparing the first and second sequence of events, the similarity assessment producing a distance measurement between the first object and the second object, the distance measurement quantifying similarity between the first and second sequence of events; and duplicating data selectively identified in the first and second sequence of events responsive to the similarity assessment and produced distance measurement.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein converting the first and second data streams further comprises identifying one or more images in each of the data streams and processing the identified one or more images into one or more object representations.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising forming a first sequence of tuple representations for the first data stream and forming a second sequence of tuple representations for the second data stream, and sequentially ordering the first and second sequences of tuple representations based time on stamp metadata associated with each representation.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the distance measurement reflects a quantity of edits required to create equivalency between the first and second sequence of events.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein converting the first and second data streams further comprises identifying audio in each of the data streams and processing the identified audio into first and second text representations.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein at least a first subset of tuple representations includes a set of elements selected from the group consisting of: multiple words per object and multiple objects per word.
</claims>
</document>
