<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06T7/20,G08B13/196,G10L15/08,G10L15/26,G10L25/27,G10L25/48,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHERRY LABS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAVYDOV, NIKOLAY
GORILOVSKY, DMITRY
GONCHAROV, MAXIM
VERETENNIKOV, STANISLAV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63917345
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER VISION BASED MONITORING SYSTEM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A monitoring system includes sensors that monitor activity within a designated territory. The sensors include visual sensors that make video recordings. A local processing system located within or proximate to the designated territory receives signals from the sensors. The local processing system processes and analyzes the signals from the sensors to produce messages that describe activity within the designated territory as monitored by the sensors. The messages do not include audio, visual or other direct identifying information that directly reveal identity of persons within the designated territory. A monitoring station outside the designated territory receives the messages produced by the local processing system and makes the messages available to external observers.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A monitoring system comprising: sensors that monitor activity within a designated territory, the sensors including visual sensors that make video recordings; a local processing system located within or proximate to the designated territory, the local processing system receiving signals from the sensors, the local processing system processing and analyzing the signals from the sensors to produce messages that describe activity within the designated territory as monitored by the sensors, the messages not including audio, visual or other direct identifying information that directly reveal identity of persons within the designated territory; and a monitoring station outside the designated territory, the monitoring station receiving the messages produced by the local processing system and making the messages available to external observers.
2. A monitoring system as in claim 1, wherein the messages describe actions performed by a person or animal within the designated territory sufficiently to allow an external observer to determine when external intervention is required.
3. A monitoring system as in claim 1 or 2, wherein the monitoring station produces an alarm when the messages describe actions performed by a person or animal that indicate an external intervention may be required.
4. A monitoring system as in any preceding claim wherein the sensors are selected to monitor children, disabled, sick or old persons.
5. A monitoring system as in any preceding claim wherein when the monitoring station forwards to the local processing system a query from an external observer, the local processor responds with a message, wherein contents of the message are based on activity within the designated territory detected by processing and analyzing the signals from the sensors.
6. A monitoring system as in any preceding claim, wherein the monitoring station produces an alert when the messages indicate a predetermined gesture or predetermined phrase is detected by the sensors.
7. A monitoring system as in claim 6, wherein the monitoring station cancels the alert when the messages indicate a predetermined cancelation gesture or predetermined cancelation phrase is detected by the sensors.
8. A monitoring system as in any preceding claim, wherein the local processing system internally identifies bodies of people and animals within the designated territory based on video data using at least one of the following techniques: face metric identification that identifies and records facial features; clothes metric identification that detects and records types of clothes on a body; body metric identification that detects and records body shapes; activity metric identification that detects and records current activity of a body; hair-cut metric identification that detects and records hair-cut style; tool metric identification that detects and records objects held or in near vicinity to a body.
9. A monitoring system as in claim 8, wherein the local processing system recognizes changes made to bodies within the designated territory and updates affected metric identifications.
10. A monitoring system as in claim 8, wherein the local processing system analyzes kinetic motion of identified bodies to insure movements consistent with laws of physics to detect and resolve inconsistencies when internally identifying bodies.
11. A monitoring system as in claim 10, wherein the local processing system additionally uses audio data to internally identify bodies of people and animals within the designated territory, the audio data including timbre metrics and relative sound amplitudes.
12. A monitoring system as in any preceding claim, wherein the local processing system internally identifies bodies of people and animals within the designated territory based on video data using more than one of the following techniques: face metric identification that identifies and records facial features; clothes metric identification that detects and records types of clothes on a body; body metric identification that detects and records body shapes; activity metric identification that detects and records current activity of a body; hair-cut metric identification that detects and records hair-cut style; tool metric identification that detects and records objects held or in near vicinity to a body.
13. A monitoring system as in any preceding claim, wherein the designated territory includes an area in at least one of the following: a school, a prison, a hospital, a shopping mall, a street, an office, a parking lot.
14. A monitoring system as in any preceding claim, wherein the designated territory comprises a plurality of rooms, the local processing system constructing a layout plan of the territory using video data from the sensors.
15. A monitoring system as in claim 14, wherein the local processing system additionally uses audio data to construct the layout plan.
16. A monitoring system as in claim 14, wherein when constructing the layout plan of the territory, the local processing system utilizes at least one of the following: estimates of room geometry based on detecting horizontal and vertical lines; detection of major objects within field of view of video sensors; neural network algorithms to recognize a room type form based a database of known room types; measurements based on requested configuration activities of a user within a room; configuration audio signals detected by audio sensors.
17. A method for monitoring activity within a designated territory, comprising: using sensors to make video recordings; forwarding signals from the sensors to a local processing system located within or proximate to the designated territory, using the local processing system to process and analyze the signals from the sensors to produce messages that describe activity within the designated territory as monitored by the sensors, where the messages do not include audio, visual or other direct identifying information that directly reveal identity of persons within the designated territory; sending the messages to a monitoring station outside the designated territory, the monitoring station making the messages available to external observers.
18. A method as in claim 17, additionally comprising: producing an alert by the monitoring station when the messages indicate a predetermined gesture or predetermined phrase is detected by the sensors.
19. A method as in claim 17, additionally comprising: internally identifying bodies of people and animals within the designated territory based on video data using one or more of the following techniques: face metric identification that identifies and records facial features, clothes metric identification that detects and records types of clothes on a body, body metric identification that detects and records body shapes, activity metric identification that detects and records current activity of a body, hair-cut metric identification that detects and records hair-cut style, and tool metric identification that detects and records objects held or in near vicinity to a body.
20. A method as in claim 17, additionally comprising: recording audio data by the sensors, the audio data being used to internally identify bodies of people and animals within the designated territory, the audio data including timbre metrics and relative sound amplitudes.
</claims>
</document>
