<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/10,G06Q50/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AON RISK SERVICES, INC. OF MARYLAND
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDREWS, DAVID CRAIG
LEE, LEWIS, C.
FLEMING, SAMUEL CAMERON
CROUSE, DANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74066789
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Analysis Of Intellectual-Property Data In Relation To Products And Services
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques described herein are directed to analyzing intellectual-property data according to provide various intellectual property related services to organizations. In particular implementations, information related to products and/or services may be obtained from a number of data sources. Additionally, information related to intellectual-property assets, such as patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and know-how, may be obtained. In various situations, the intellectual-property assets may be mapped to respective products and/or services. The mappings between the products and/or services and intellectual-property assets may be used to provide intellectual property related services that correspond to the intellectual-property assets, such as valuation services, strategy-related services, or risk-related services.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, from one or more data sources, first information regarding products offered for acquisition; receiving, from the one or more data sources, second information regarding intellectual-property assets; determining, based at least in part on the first information and the second information, that an intellectual-property asset of the intellectual-property assets corresponds to a feature associated with a product of the products; receiving a first request to determine a value of the intellectual-property asset; identifying, based at least partly on receiving the first request, economic data indicating revenue of an organization that is associated with the product; determining a portion of the revenue attributable to the intellectual-property asset; determining, based at least partly on the portion of the revenue, a measure of value of the intellectual-property asset; receiving a second request to determine at least one of: a first exposure value representing loss of coverage with respect to the intellectual-property asset; or a second exposure value representing a litigation event with respect to the intellectual-property asset; determining, based at least in part on receiving the second request, at least one of the first exposure value or the second exposure value; and causing display, via one or more user interfaces, of an indicator of the measure of value of the product and the at least one of the first exposure value or the second exposure value.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from the one or more data sources, third information regarding the products, the third information representing an update of the first information and including second economic data; increasing or decreasing the portion of the revenue based at least in part on the third information; and determining a second measure of value of the intellectual-property asset based at least partly on increasing or decreasing the portion of the revenue.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from the one or more data sources, fourth information representing an update to the second information; and determining, based at least partly on the fourth information, at least of: a third exposure value associated with the loss of coverage; or a fourth exposure value associated with the litigation event.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a classification system that includes classifications, individual ones of the classifications corresponding to one or more technology groups; determining one or more first features of the product based at least partly on a first linguistic analysis of a portion of the first information corresponding to the product; determining one or more second features of the intellectual-property asset based at least partly on a second linguistic analysis of a portion of the second information corresponding to the intellectual-property asset; determining, based at least partly on the one or more first features, that the product is included in a classification of the classifications; and determining, based at least partly on the one or more second features, that the intellectual-property asset is included in the classification.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: generating a framework that indicates relationships between first products associated with the classification and intellectual-property assets associated with the classification; and wherein determining that the intellectual-property asset corresponds to the product includes determining that the framework indicates a relationship between the product and the intellectual-property asset.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining a first feature of the one or more first features based at least in part on a first noun associated with the intellectual-property asset corresponding to a first action performed by the product; determining a first linguistic structure for the first feature indicating a first relationship between the first action and the first noun; determining a second feature of the one or more second features based at least in part on a second noun associated with the intellectual-property asset corresponding to a second action; determining a second linguistic structure for the second feature indicating a second relationship between the second action and the second noun; and determining a similarity metric indicating an amount of similarity between the first linguistic structure and the second linguistic structure; and wherein determining that the intellectual-property asset corresponds to the product is based at least partly on the similarity metric.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein the second exposure value associated with the litigation event is determined based at least partly on a number of litigation events corresponding to intellectual-property assets having the classification.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the measure of value comprises a first measure of value, and the method further comprises: sending a third request for feedback regarding an accuracy of the first measure of value; receiving input data indicating that the first measure of value is to be modified; and determining, based at least partly on the input data, a second measure of value of the intellectual-property asset.
9. A system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable media storing instructions executable by the one or more processors, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: determining that an intellectual-property asset corresponds to at least one of a product or a service; receiving a request to determine a value of the intellectual-property asset; receiving economic data associated with the at least one of the product or the service, the economic data including a revenue of an organization associated with the at least one of the product or the service; determining a portion of the revenue attributable to the intellectual-property asset; determining, based at least partly on the portion of the revenue, a first measure of value of the intellectual-property asset; receiving input data indicating that the first measure of value of the intellectual-property asset is to be modified; determining, based at least partly on the input data, a second measure of value of the intellectual-property asset; and causing display, via a user interface, of an indication of the second measure of value.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the intellectual-property asset is a patent document, and the operations further comprise: determining a measure of breadth of a claim of the patent document; and wherein the portion of the revenue is based at least partly on the measure of breadth.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the request comprises a first request, and the operations further comprise: receiving a second request to determine a first value measure for individual ones of intellectual-property assets associated with a loan to an organization, the intellectual-property assets associated with the organization; determining the first value measure based at least in part on first criteria; receiving a third request to determine a second value measure for the individual ones of the intellectual-property assets associated with at least one of a sale of at least a portion of the organization or a merger of the organization with an additional organization; and determining the second value measure based at least in part on second criteria, wherein the second value measure differs from the first value measure.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the request comprises a first request, and the operations further comprise: generating a framework that indicates one or more relationships between individual products or services and individual patents; receiving a second request to identify one or more patents related to one or more of the products or the services; determining, utilizing the framework, the one or more of the patents related to the one or more of the products or the services; and causing display, via a user interface, of an indication of the one or more patents.
13. The system of claim 12, the operations further comprising: determining a feature of a product or a service of the products or the services; determining, based at least partly on the framework, a claim of the one or more patents that relates to the feature; and causing display, via the user interface, of an indication of the claim.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the request comprises a first request, and the operations further comprise: generating a classification system including classifications, individual ones of the classifications associated with one or more technology groups; receiving a second request to identify one or more organizations that are associated with claims of patent documents associated with products or services included in a classification of the classifications; determining, based at least partly on the framework, organizations associated with claims that correspond to the products or the services included in the classification; and causing display, via the user interface, of an indication of a number of claims associated with individual organizations of the organizations that correspond to the products or the services included in the classification.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the economic data comprises first economic data, the revenue comprises first revenue, the measure of value comprises a first measure of value, and the operations further comprising: receiving second economic data associated with the product or the service, the second economic data including second revenue of the organization associated with the product or the service; and determining, based at least partly on the second revenue, a second measure of value of the intellectual-property asset.
16. A method comprising: determining that an intellectual-property asset corresponds to a product or a service; receiving a request to determine a value of the intellectual-property asset; receiving first economic data including a first revenue of an organization associated with the product or the service; determining a portion of the first revenue attributable to the intellectual-property asset; determining, based at least partly on the portion of the first revenue, a first measure of value of the intellectual-property asset; receiving second economic data including second revenue of the organization associated with the product or the service; determining, based at least partly on the second revenue, a second measure of value of the intellectual-property asset; and causing display, via a user interface, of an indication of the second measure of value of the intellectual-property asset.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: receiving, from at least one of a public data source or a data source of the organization, information corresponding to the intellectual-property asset; determining, based at least partly on the information, at least one of: a first exposure value associated with loss of coverage with respect to the intellectual-property asset; or a second exposure value associated with a litigation event with respect to the intellectual-property asset.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the intellectual-property asset comprises a trade secret, and the method further comprises: determining a probability of theft of the trade secret based at least partly on a portion of the information; determining the first exposure value based at least partly on the probability of theft of the trade secret; and causing display, via the user interface, of an indication of the first exposure value.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining a discount amount to reduce the second amount of the revenue based at least partly on the at least one of the first exposure value or the second exposure value; and wherein the second measure of value is based at least partly on a difference between the second amount of the revenue and the discount amount.
20. The method of claim 16, further comprising: determining an intellectual-property category associated with the intellectual-property asset, the intellectual-property category being at least one of a patent category, a trademark category, a copyright category, or a trade-secret category; and wherein determining the second measure of value comprises determining the second measure of value based at least in part on the intellectual-property category associated with the intellectual-property asset.
</claims>
</document>
