<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q10/08,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHOPIFY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEROUX, DANIEL D.
van Grootel, Maarten
Tzavelas, George
des Ligneris, Benoit
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69845244
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-LOCATION DELIVERY
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for determining product fulfillment options for products in an e-commerce system or shopping cart. Delivery profiles from a delivery profile database are used, wherein the delivery profile is specific to the products and contains inventory locations and delivery zones. Priority basis determination of recommended options is utilized.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining an option for fulfillment of a prospective order comprising: identifying a product and a destination from the prospective order; retrieving a delivery profile, the delivery profile comprising: (i) an inventory location of the product, (ii) a delivery zone where the product can be shipped from the inventory location, and (iii) one or more fulfillment options, wherein the one or more fulfillment options comprises one or more shipping rates to ship the product from the inventory location to the delivery zone; and, determining the option from the one or more fulfillment options based upon a priority basis.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the delivery profile is retrieved from a delivery profile database.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein each shipping rate in the one or more shipping rates comprises a shipping provider, a shipping service and a shipping cost.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the product is a plurality of different products and the delivery profile is a plurality of different delivery profiles corresponding to the plurality of different products.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the inventory location is a plurality of inventory locations.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the option is a plurality of options based on the plurality of inventory locations.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the delivery zone is a plurality of delivery zones.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more shipping rates is a plurality of shipping rates.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the option is a plurality of options based on the plurality of shipping rates.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the option for the prospective order comprises no fulfillment options to the destination.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the priority basis is lowest shipping cost.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: communicating the option to a customer device.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining an inventory information request to be requested based upon the inventory location, the delivery zone and the one or more fulfillment options of the delivery profile and the destination; requesting inventory information via the inventory information request; receiving inventory information in response to the inventory information request and, wherein the priority basis also considers the inventory information to determine an option.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a shipping information request to be requested based upon the inventory location, the delivery zone and the one or more fulfillment options of the delivery profile and the destination; requesting shipping information via the shipping information request; receiving shipping information; and, wherein the priority basis also considers the shipping information.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining an inventory information request to be requested based upon the inventory location, the delivery zone and the one or more fulfillment options of the delivery profile and the destination; requesting inventory information via the inventory information request; receiving inventory information in response to the inventory information request; determining a shipping information request to be requested from the inventory location, the delivery zone and the one or more fulfillment options of the delivery profile, the inventory information received and the destination; requesting shipping information via the shipping information request; and, wherein the priority basis also considers the inventory information and the shipping information.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining an inventory information request to be requested from the inventory location, the delivery zone and the one or more fulfillment options of the delivery profile and the destination; requesting inventory information via the inventory information request; receiving inventory information in response to the inventory information request regarding the inventory location having available inventory of the product; disregarding the inventory location if it does not have available inventory of the product; determining a shipping information request to be requested from the inventory location, the delivery zone and the one or more fulfillment options of the delivery profile; requesting shipping information via the shipping information request, wherein the shipping information request is made via an API call external to an e-commerce platform; receiving shipping information in response to the shipping information request; communicating the option to a customer device; wherein the delivery profile is retrieved from a delivery profile database; wherein the product is a plurality of different products; wherein the delivery profile is a plurality of delivery profiles corresponding to the plurality of different products; wherein the inventory location is a plurality of inventory locations; wherein the delivery zone is a plurality of delivery zones; wherein each shipping rate in the one or more shipping rates comprises a shipping provider, a shipping service and a shipping cost; wherein the one or more shipping rates is a plurality of shipping rates; wherein the shipping information comprises a shipping provider, a shipping service and a shipping cost; wherein the shipping information request is a plurality of shipping information requests; wherein the priority basis also considers the inventory information and the shipping information; and wherein the option for fulfillment of the prospective order is a plurality of options.
17. A method of determining an option for fulfillment of a prospective order in an e-commerce platform comprising: identifying the prospective order to deliver one or more products to a destination; retrieving one or more delivery profiles, the one or more delivery profiles comprising: (i) one or more inventory locations of the one or more products, (ii) one or more delivery zones where the one or more products can be shipped from the one or more inventory locations, and (iii) one or more fulfillment options, wherein the one or more fulfillment options comprise one or more shipping rates to ship the one or more products from the one or more inventory locations to the one or more delivery zones; determining a plurality of shipping information requests to be requested based on the one or more inventory locations, the one or more delivery zones and the one or more fulfillment options of the one or more delivery profiles and the destination; requesting shipping information via the plurality of shipping information requests, wherein the plurality of shipping information requests comprise at least one shipping information request that is an API call external to the e-commerce platform; receiving shipping information in response to the plurality of shipping information requests; and, determining the option from the one or more inventory locations, the one or more delivery zones, the one or more fulfillment options and the shipping information based upon a priority basis.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the plurality of shipping information requests are made immediately following the determination of utility of the plurality of shipping information requests.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining a plurality of inventory information requests to be requested based upon the one or more inventory locations, the one or more delivery zones and the one or more fulfillment options of the one or more delivery profiles and the destination; requesting inventory information via the plurality of inventory information requests; receiving inventory information; wherein the step of determining a plurality of shipping information requests considers the inventory information to determine the shipping information requests; and, wherein the priority basis also considers the inventory information to determine an option.
20. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining a plurality of inventory information requests to be requested based upon the one or more inventory locations, the one or more delivery zones and the one or more fulfillment options of the one or more delivery profiles and the destination; requesting inventory information via the plurality of inventory information requests; receiving inventory information; disregarding inventory locations that do not have available inventory of the one or more products; communicating the option to a customer device; wherein the one or more delivery profiles are retrieved from one or more delivery profile records stored in a delivery profile database; wherein a country of the destination is different than at least one of the one or more inventory locations; wherein each shipping rate in the one or more shipping rates comprises a shipping provider, a shipping service and a shipping cost; and, wherein the priority basis also considers the inventory information and the shipping information.
21. A system for determining an option for fulfillment of a prospective order comprising: an e-commerce platform comprising at least one processor and at least one memory, the e-commerce platform adapted to: identify a product and a destination from the prospective order; retrieve a delivery profile, the delivery profile comprising: (i) an inventory location of the product, (ii) a delivery zone where the product can be shipped from the inventory location, and (iii) one or more fulfillment options, wherein the one or more fulfillment options comprises one or more shipping rates to ship the product from the inventory location to the delivery zone; and, determine the option from the one or more fulfillment options based upon a priority basis.
22. The system of claim 21, further comprising a delivery profile database, wherein the delivery profile is retrieved from the delivery profile database.
23. The system of claim 21 wherein each shipping rate in the one or more shipping rates comprises a shipping provider, a shipping service and a shipping cost.
24. The system of claim 21, wherein the product is a plurality of different products and the delivery profile is a plurality of different delivery profiles corresponding to the plurality of different products.
25. The system of claim 21, wherein the inventory location is a plurality of inventory locations.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the option is a plurality of options based on the plurality of inventory locations.
27. The system of claim 21, wherein the delivery zone is a plurality of delivery zones.
28. The system of claim 21, wherein the one or more shipping rates is a plurality of shipping rates.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the option is a plurality of options based on the plurality of shipping rates.
30. The system of claim 21, wherein the option for the prospective order comprises no fulfillment options to the destination.
31. The system of claim 21, wherein the priority basis is lowest shipping cost.
32. The system of claim 21, wherein the system is further adapted to: communicate the option to a customer device.
33. The system of claim 21, wherein the system is further adapted to: determine an inventory information request to be requested based upon the inventory location, the delivery zone and the one or more fulfillment options of the delivery profile and the destination; request inventory information via the inventory information request; receive inventory information in response to the inventory information request and, wherein the priority basis also considers the inventory information to determine an option.
34. The system of claim 21, wherein the system is further adapted to: determine a shipping information request to be requested based upon the inventory location, the delivery zone and the one or more fulfillment options of the delivery profile and the destination; request shipping information via the shipping information request; receive shipping information; and, wherein the priority basis also considers the shipping information.
35. The system of claim 21, wherein the system is further adapted to: determine an inventory information request to be requested based upon the inventory location, the delivery zone and the one or more fulfillment options of the delivery profile and the destination; request inventory information via the inventory information request; receive inventory information in response to the inventory information request; determine a shipping information request to be requested from the inventory location, the delivery zone and the one or more fulfillment options of the delivery profile, the inventory information received and the destination; request shipping information via the shipping information request; and, wherein the priority basis also considers the inventory information and the shipping information.
36. The system of claim 21, wherein the system is further adapted to: determine an inventory information request to be requested from the inventory location, the delivery zone and the one or more fulfillment options of the delivery profile and the destination; request inventory information via the inventory information request; receive inventory information in response to the inventory information request regarding the inventory location having available inventory of the product; disregard the inventory location if it does not have available inventory of the product; determine a shipping information request to be requested from the inventory location, the delivery zone and the one or more fulfillment options of the delivery profile; request shipping information via the shipping information request, wherein the shipping information request is made via an API call external to an e-commerce platform; receive shipping information in response to the shipping information request; communicate the option to a customer device; wherein the delivery profile is retrieved from a delivery profile database; wherein the product is a plurality of different products; wherein the delivery profile is a plurality of delivery profiles corresponding to the plurality of different products; wherein the inventory location is a plurality of inventory locations; wherein the delivery zone is a plurality of delivery zones; wherein each shipping rate in the one or more shipping rates comprises a shipping provider, a shipping service and a shipping cost; wherein the one or more shipping rates is a plurality of shipping rates; wherein the shipping information comprises a shipping provider, a shipping service and a shipping cost; wherein the shipping information request is a plurality of shipping information requests; wherein the priority basis also considers the inventory information and the shipping information; and wherein the option for fulfillment of the prospective order is a plurality of options.
37. A system for determining an option for fulfillment of a prospective order comprising: an e-commerce platform comprising at least one processor and at least one memory, the e-commerce platform adapted to: identify the prospective order to deliver one or more products to a destination; retrieve one or more delivery profiles, the one or more delivery profiles comprising: (i) one or more inventory locations of the one or more products, (ii) one or more delivery zones where the one or more products can be shipped from the one or more inventory locations, and (iii) one or more fulfillment options, wherein the one or more fulfillment options comprise one or more shipping rates to ship the one or more products from the one or more inventory locations to the one or more delivery zones; determine a plurality of shipping information requests to be requested based on the one or more inventory locations, the one or more delivery zones and the one or more fulfillment options of the one or more delivery profiles and the destination; request shipping information via the plurality of shipping information requests, wherein the plurality of shipping information requests comprise at least one shipping information request that is an API call external to the e-commerce platform; receive shipping information in response to the plurality of shipping information requests; and, determine the option from the one or more inventory locations, the one or more delivery zones, the one or more fulfillment options and the shipping information based upon a priority basis.
38. The system of claim 37, wherein the plurality of shipping information requests are made immediately following the determination of utility of the plurality of shipping information requests.
39. The system of claim 37, wherein the system is further adapted to: determine a plurality of inventory information requests to be requested based upon the one or more inventory locations, the one or more delivery zones and the one or more fulfillment options of the one or more delivery profiles and the destination; request inventory information via the plurality of inventory information requests; receive inventory information; wherein the step to determine a plurality of shipping information requests considers the inventory information to determine the shipping information requests; and, wherein the priority basis also considers the inventory information to determine an option.
40. The system of claim 37, wherein the system is further adapted to: determine a plurality of inventory information requests to be requested based upon the one or more inventory locations, the one or more delivery zones and the one or more fulfillment options of the one or more delivery profiles and the destination; request inventory information via the plurality of inventory information requests; receive inventory information; disregard inventory locations that do not have available inventory of the one or more products; communicate the option to a customer device; wherein the one or more delivery profiles are retrieved from one or more delivery profile records stored in a delivery profile database; wherein a country of the destination is different than at least one of the one or more inventory locations; wherein each shipping rate in the one or more shipping rates comprises a shipping provider, a shipping service and a shipping cost; and, wherein the priority basis also considers the inventory information and the shipping information.
</claims>
</document>
