<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2009-07-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/26,G06F16/78,G06F16/9535,G06F3/048,G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06Q30/02,H04L12/58,H04N21/466,H04N21/4788,H04N21/482,H04N21/81,H04N21/845
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BLUEFIN LAB
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROY, DEB, KUMAR
FLEISCHMAN, MICHAEL BEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
43449847
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ESTIMATING SOCIAL INTEREST IN TIME-BASED MEDIA
</title>

<abstract>
Social media content items are mapped to relevant time-based media events. These mappings may be used as the basis for multiple applications, such as ranking of search results for time-based media, automatic recommendations for time-based media, prediction of audience interest for media purchasing/planning, and estimating social interest in the time-based media. Social interest in time-based media (e.g., video and audio streams and recordings) segments is estimated through a process of data ingestion and integration. The estimation process determines social interest in specific events represented as segments in time-based media, such as particular plays in a sporting event, scenes in a television show, or advertisements in an advertising block. The resulting estimates of social interest also can be graphically displayed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A computer-executed method comprising: receiving, by a computing system, a plurality of content items authored by respective users of a social networking system; receiving, by the computing system and from a computing device, information of one or more media events; calculating a respective event-specific confidence score for each content item in the plurality of content items and for each media event in the one or more media events, the event-specific confidence score calculated for a content item and a media event indicating a probability that the content item is relevant to the media event; computing a respective interest level of social interest in each media event as a weighted aggregation of the event-specific confidence scores of the plurality of content items calculated for the media event; generating a graphical user interface (GUI) element that includes a set of indicators, each indicator being associated with a different media event and visually depicting the interest level computed for the associated media event; and transmitting the GUI element to the computing device for display.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising: receiving, from the user computing device, a selection of an indicator in the set of indicators, the indicator being displayed in a display of the GUI element on the user computing device; determining that the selected indicator is associated with a particular media event; and transmitting, for display, statistical information regarding a respective interest level of social interest in the particular media event.
23. The method of claim 22, further comprising transmitting to the computing device, for display, at least a portion of the particular media event.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein the statistical information indicates what percentage of the content items correlated to the particular media event contains respective positive sentiments, and what percentage of the content items correlated to the particular media event contains respective negative sentiments.
25. The method of claim 22, wherein the selected indicator reflects an interest level of audience of a particular media channel that broadcasted the particular media event.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein a first indicator in the set of indicators comprises a first portion corresponding to a number of content items associated with respective positive sentiments toward a media event associated with the first indicator, and a second portion corresponding to a number of content items associated with respective negative sentiments toward the media event.
27. The method of claim 21, wherein the GUI element is a first GUI element, the set of indicators is a first set of indicators, and the method further comprises: receiving, from the user computing device, one or more search terms; determining a set of media events that each corresponds to respective search terms in the one or more search terms; determining one or more interest levels that are each associated with a respective media event in the set of media events; generating a second GUI element that includes a second set of indicators, each indicator in the second set of indicators visually depicting a respective interest level in the one or more interest levels; and transmitting the second GUI element to the user computing device for display.
28. The method of claim 21, wherein each media event of the one or more media events is associated with a respective time segment, wherein a time segment associated with a media event indicates that the media event was broadcasted over the time segment or that the media event represents an event that happened during the time segment.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the GUI element is a first GUI element, and the method further comprises: receiving, from the user computing device, a selection of one or more time segments; determining a set of media events that are each associated with a respective time segment in the selected time segments; determining one or more interest levels that are each associated with a respective media event in the set of media events; generating a second GUI element that includes a second set of indicators, each indicator in the second set of indicators visually depicting a respective interest level in the one or more interest levels; and transmitting the second GUI element to the user computing device for display.
30. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions executable by a computer system to perform operations comprising: receiving a plurality of content items authored by respective users of a social networking system; receiving, from a computing device, information of one or more media events; calculating a respective event-specific confidence score for each content item in the plurality of content items and for each media event in the one or more media events, the event-specific confidence score calculated for a content item and a media event indicating a probability that the content item is relevant to the media event; computing a respective interest level of social interest in each media event as a weighted aggregation of the event-specific confidence scores of the plurality of content items calculated for the media event; generating a graphical user interface (GUI) element that includes a set of indicators, each indicator being associated with a different media event and visually depicting the interest level computed for the associated media event; and transmitting the GUI element to the computing device for display.
31. The computer-readable medium of claim 30, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, from the user computing device, a selection of an indicator in the set of indicators, the indicator being displayed in a display of the GUI element on the user computing device; determining that the selected indicator is associated with a particular media event; and transmitting, for display, statistical information regarding a respective interest level of social interest in the particular media event.
32. The computer-readable medium of claim 31, wherein the operations further comprise transmitting to the computing device, for display, at least a portion of the particular media event.
33. The computer-readable medium of claim 31, wherein the operations further comprise, wherein the statistical information indicates what percentage of the content items correlated to the particular media event contains respective positive sentiments, and what percentage of the content items correlated to the particular media event contains respective negative sentiments.
34. The computer-readable medium of claim 31, wherein the selected indicator reflects an interest level of audience of a particular media channel that broadcasted the particular media event.
35. The computer-readable medium of claim 30, wherein a first indicator in the set of indicators comprises a first portion corresponding to a number of content items associated with respective positive sentiments toward a media event associated with the first indicator, and a second portion corresponding to a number of content items associated with respective negative sentiments toward the media event.
36. The computer-readable medium of claim 30, wherein the GUI element is a first GUI element, the set of indicators is a first set of indicators, and the operations further comprise: receiving, from the user computing device, one or more search terms; determining a set of media events that each corresponds to respective search terms in the one or more search terms; determining one or more interest levels that are each associated with a respective media event in the set of media events; generating a second GUI element that includes a second set of indicators, each indicator in the second set of indicators visually depicting a respective interest level in the one or more interest levels; and transmitting the second GUI element to the user computing device for display.
37. The computer-readable medium of claim 30, wherein each media event of the one or more media events is associated with a respective time segment, wherein a time segment associated with a media event indicates that the media event was broadcasted over the time segment or that the media event represents an event that happened during the time segment.
38. The computer-readable medium of claim 37, wherein the GUI element is a first GUI element, and the operations further comprise: receiving, from the user computing device, a selection of one or more time segments; determining a set of media events that are each associated with a respective time segment in the selected time segments; determining one or more interest levels that are each associated with a respective media event in the set of media events; generating a second GUI element that includes a second set of indicators, each indicator in the second set of indicators visually depicting a respective interest level in the one or more interest levels; and transmitting the second GUI element to the user computing device for display.
39. A computer-implemented system comprising: one or more computers and one or more storage devices on which are stored instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: receiving a plurality of content items authored by respective users of a social networking system; receiving, from a computing device, information of one or more media events; calculating a respective event-specific confidence score for each content item in the plurality of content items and for each media event in the one or more media events, the event-specific confidence score calculated for a content item and a media event indicating a probability that the content item is relevant to the media event; computing a respective interest level of social interest in each media event as a weighted aggregation of the event-specific confidence scores of the plurality of content items calculated for the media event; generating a graphical user interface (GUI) element that includes a set of indicators, each indicator being associated with a different media event and visually depicting the interest level computed for the associated media event; and transmitting the GUI element to the computing device for display.
40. The system of claim 39, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, from the user computing device, a selection of an indicator in the set of indicators, the indicator being displayed in a display of the GUI element on the user computing device; determining that the selected indicator is associated with a particular media event; and transmitting, for display, statistical information regarding a respective interest level of social interest in the particular media event.
41. The system of claim 40, wherein the operations further comprise transmitting to the computing device, for display, at least a portion of the particular media event.
42. The system of claim 40, wherein the operations further comprise, wherein the statistical information indicates what percentage of the content items correlated to the particular media event contains respective positive sentiments, and what percentage of the content items correlated to the particular media event contains respective negative sentiments.
43. The system of claim 40, wherein the selected indicator reflects an interest level of audience of a particular media channel that broadcasted the particular media event.
44. The system of claim 39, wherein a first indicator in the set of indicators comprises a first portion corresponding to a number of content items associated with respective positive sentiments toward a media event associated with the first indicator, and a second portion corresponding to a number of content items associated with respective negative sentiments toward the media event.
45. The system of claim 39, wherein the GUI element is a first GUI element, the set of indicators is a first set of indicators, and the operations further comprise: receiving, from the user computing device, one or more search terms; determining a set of media events that each corresponds to respective search terms in the one or more search terms; determining one or more interest levels that are each associated with a respective media event in the set of media events; generating a second GUI element that includes a second set of indicators, each indicator in the second set of indicators visually depicting a respective interest level in the one or more interest levels; and transmitting the second GUI element to the user computing device for display.
46. The system of claim 39, wherein each media event of the one or more media events is associated with a respective time segment, wherein a time segment associated with a media event indicates that the media event was broadcasted over the time segment or that the media event represents an event that happened during the time segment.
47. The system of claim 46, wherein the GUI element is a first GUI element, and the operations further comprise: receiving, from the user computing device, a selection of one or more time segments; determining a set of media events that are each associated with a respective time segment in the selected time segments; determining one or more interest levels that are each associated with a respective media event in the set of media events; generating a second GUI element that includes a second set of indicators, each indicator in the second set of indicators visually depicting a respective interest level in the one or more interest levels; and transmitting the second GUI element to the user computing device for display.
</claims>
</document>
