<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
URSA SPACE SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOODY, DANIELA IRINA
Immel, Poppy Gene
Desai, Meera Ann
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514546
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ANGULAR FEATURE EXTRACTION FROM SATELLITE IMAGERY
</title>

<abstract>
In some aspects, there is provided a method for determining a rotational orientation of an object in an image. The image depicts the object in a scene. The method includes providing images depicting the object in the scene to a trained statistical model. The images depict the scene of the image at different rotation angles. A rotation angle of a respective image corresponds to a potential rotational orientation of the object depicted in the respective image. The method further includes, in response to the providing, receiving, for each image, a confidence score indicating a likelihood generated by the trained statistical model that the object is at the potential rotational orientation corresponding to the rotation angle of the respective image. The method further includes determining the rotational orientation of the object in the image based at least in part on an analysis of the confidence scores and respective potential rotational orientations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining a rotational orientation of an object in an image, the image depicting the object in a scene, the method comprising: providing a plurality of images depicting the object in the scene to a trained statistical model, wherein the plurality of images depict the scene of the image at different rotation angles, wherein a rotation angle of a respective image corresponds to a potential rotational orientation of the object depicted in the respective image; in response to the providing, receiving, for each of the plurality of images, a confidence score indicating a likelihood generated by the trained statistical model that the object is at the potential rotational orientation corresponding to the rotation angle of the respective image; and determining the rotational orientation of the object in the image based at least in part on an analysis of the confidence scores and respective potential rotational orientations.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the rotational orientation of the object in the image comprises determining a respective potential rotational orientation with a highest confidence score.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of images depicting the object in the scene is generated from a single image.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the plurality of images includes 48 images generated by rotating the single image to 48 different rotation angles.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the plurality of images is generated by successively rotating the single image in a fixed increment, d.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the fixed increment is d degrees, and wherein the plurality of images includes 360°/d images.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the statistical model includes a binary classification model.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the binary classification model includes a binary classification convolutional neural network (CNN).
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the statistical model includes k statistical models trained to generate k confidence scores.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the k statistical models include k CNNs.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the rotational orientation of the object in the image comprises determining a respective potential rotational orientation with a highest average confidence score across the k statistical models.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of images includes n images depicting the scene of the image at n different rotation angles.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the image belongs to a temporal series of m images depicting the object in the scene.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: determining the rotational orientation of the object in the temporal series of m images based at least in part on an analysis of, from each plurality of n images for the temporal series of m images, the k confidence scores received from the plurality of k trained statistical models in response to the providing of the plurality of n images.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein determining the rotational orientation of the object in the temporal series of m images comprises: determining a plurality of n average confidence scores for the n different rotation angles, each average confidence score being based on mk confidence scores, received from the plurality of k trained statistical models, for m images corresponding to a same rotation angle from the plurality of n images for each of the temporal series of m images.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the object is depicted in the image in a non-periodic manner.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein only one instance of the object is depicted in the image.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the object depicted in the image is non-moving.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein no labeling is provided of the object depicted in the image.
20. A method for determining a rotational orientation of an object in an image, the image depicting the object in a scene, the method comprising: providing a plurality of images depicting the object in the scene to a trained statistical model to obtain an output relating to the rotational orientation of the object in the image, wherein the plurality of images depict the scene of the image at different rotation angles and wherein the statistical model is trained to generate a confidence score indicating whether the object is depicted in an input image at a fixed rotational orientation, wherein the providing the plurality of images to the trained statistical model comprises: for each image of the plurality of images, providing the image to the trained statistical model as the input image, and receiving in response to the providing of the image a confidence score generated by the trained statistical model indicating whether the image depicts the object at the fixed rotational orientation; and determining the rotational orientation of the object in the image based at least in part on an analysis of confidence scores received from the trained statistical model in response to the providing of the plurality of images.
21. A method for determining a rotational orientation of an object in a temporal series of images, the temporal series of images depicting an object in a scene, comprising: for each image in a temporal series of m images, providing a plurality of n images depicting the object in the scene to a plurality of k trained statistical models to obtain an output relating to the rotational orientation of the object, wherein the plurality of n images depict the scene of the image at n different rotation angles and wherein the plurality of k statistical models is trained to generate k confidence scores indicating whether the object is depicted in an input image at a fixed rotational orientation, wherein the providing the plurality of n images to the plurality of k trained statistical models comprises: for each image of the plurality of n images, providing the image to the plurality of k trained statistical models as the input image, and receiving, in response to the providing of the image, k confidence scores generated by the plurality of k trained statistical models indicating whether the input image depicts the object at the fixed rotational orientation; and determining the rotational orientation of the object in the temporal series of m images based at least in part on an analysis of, from each plurality of n images for the temporal series of m images, the k confidence scores received from the plurality of k trained statistical models in response to the providing of the plurality of n images.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein determining the rotational orientation of the object in the temporal series of m images comprises: determining a plurality of n average confidence scores for the n different rotation angles, each average confidence score being based on mk confidence scores, received from the plurality of k trained statistical models, for m images corresponding to a same rotation angle from the plurality of n images for each of the temporal series of m images.
23. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having encoded thereon executable instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to carry out a method for determining a rotational orientation of an object in an image, the image depicting the object in a scene, the method comprising: providing a plurality of images depicting the object in the scene to a trained statistical model, wherein the plurality of images depict the scene of the image at different rotation angles, wherein a rotation angle of a respective image corresponds to a potential rotational orientation of the object depicted in the respective image; in response to the providing, receiving, for each of the plurality of images, a confidence score indicating a likelihood generated by the trained statistical model that the object is at the potential rotational orientation corresponding to the rotation angle of the respective image; and determining the rotational orientation of the object in the image based at least in part on an analysis of the confidence scores and respective potential rotational orientations.
24. An apparatus comprising: at least one processor; and at least one storage medium having encoded thereon executable instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to carry out a method for determining a rotational orientation of an object in an image, the image depicting the object in a scene, the method comprising: providing a plurality of images depicting the object in the scene to a trained statistical model, wherein the plurality of images depict the scene of the image at different rotation angles, wherein a rotation angle of a respective image corresponds to a potential rotational orientation of the object depicted in the respective image; in response to the providing, receiving, for each of the plurality of images, a confidence score indicating a likelihood generated by the trained statistical model that the object is at the potential rotational orientation corresponding to the rotation angle of the respective image; and determining the rotational orientation of the object in the image based at least in part on an analysis of the confidence scores and respective potential rotational orientations.
</claims>
</document>
