<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60R1/00,G06F16/955,G06K9/00,G06K9/32,G06T7/11,G08B21/24,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PORIKLI, FATIH
SHEN, JUNQIANG
XU, QIJIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66673342
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PASSENGER-RELATED ITEM LOSS MITIGATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method and device for mitigating passenger-related item loss in a travel-for-hire context are disclosed. An item within a vehicle passenger region is identified, and the identified item is associated with an identified passenger. A presence of the identified item is detected within the vehicle cabin passenger region in response to detecting an exit of the identified passenger, and an announcement message is generated based on the presence of the identified item within the vehicle cabin passenger region.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of mitigating passenger-related item loss in a travel-for-hire context, the method comprising: identifying an item within a vehicle cabin passenger region; associating the identified item with an identified passenger; in response to detecting an exit of the identified passenger, detecting a presence of the identified item within the vehicle cabin passenger region; and generating an announcement message based on the presence of the identified item within the vehicle cabin passenger region.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the item comprises: capturing, by a camera device, an image of the vehicle cabin passenger region; identifying a region-of-interest of the image, wherein the region-of-interest is based on a detection confidence metric relating to the vehicle cabin passenger region, and wherein the detection confidence metric is an indicative of the item in the vehicle cabin passenger region; upsampling the region-of-interest to produce an upsampled region-of-interest to promote image recognition; and performing image recognition of the upsampled region-of-interest of the image to identify the item within the vehicle cabin passenger region.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the image of the vehicle cabin passenger region is captured in response to detecting an entry of the identified passenger.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the identified item is associated with the identified passenger based on a location and time of coincidence of the identified passenger and the identified item.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising verbally announcing the announcement message via an announcement device, wherein the announcement device comprises a vehicle speaker or a vehicle display.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising announcing the announcement message.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the announcing the announcement message comprises at least one of: transmitting a text message to the identified passenger for receipt by a handheld mobile device; transmitting the announcement message to the identified passenger for receipt by a client application of the handheld mobile device; or transmitting the announcement message to the identified passenger as a universal resource locator (URL) link for receipt by a user device.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the exiting of the identified passenger is detected by the camera device or a vehicle door sensor.
9. A vehicle control unit for in-vehicle tracking of an item, comprising: a memory containing instructions; and a processor coupled to the memory, the processor configured to execute the instructions stored in the memory to cause the processor to: identify an item within a plurality of vehicle cabin passenger regions; associate the identified item with an identified passenger; in response to detecting an exit of the identified passenger, detect a presence of the identified item within the plurality of vehicle cabin passenger regions; and generate an announcement message based on the presence of the identified item within the plurality of vehicle cabin passenger regions.
10. The vehicle control unit of claim 9, comprising further instructions stored in memory to cause the processor to identify the item by: capturing, by a camera device, an image of a vehicle cabin passenger region of the plurality of vehicle cabin passenger regions; identifying a region-of-interest of the image, wherein the region-of-interest is based on a detection confidence metric relating to the vehicle cabin passenger region of the plurality of vehicle cabin passenger regions, and wherein the detection confidence metric is an indicative of the item in the vehicle cabin passenger region; upsampling the region-of-interest to produce an upsampled region-of-interest to promote image recognition; and performing image recognition of the upsampled region-of-interest of the image to identify the item within the vehicle cabin passenger region.
11. The vehicle control unit of claim 9, wherein the identified item is associated with the identified passenger based on a location and time of coincidence of the identified passenger and the identified item.
12. The vehicle control unit of claim 9, comprising further instructions stored in memory to cause the processor to verbally announce the announcement message via a user interface.
13. The vehicle control unit of claim 9, comprising further instructions stored in the memory to cause the processor to transmit the announcement message by at least one of: a text message to the identified passenger for receipt by a handheld mobile device; a client application to the identified passenger for receipt by a client application of the handheld mobile device; or a universal resource locator (URL) link to the identified passenger for receipt by a user device.
14. The vehicle control unit of claim 9, wherein the exiting of the identified passenger is detected by the camera device or a vehicle door sensor.
15. The vehicle control unit of claim 9, wherein the identified passenger is identified by a passenger identifier comprises at least one of: a username; an international mobile equipment identity (IMEI) number; an electronic serial number (ESN); or a unique identifier related to the identified passenger.
16. A method of mitigating passenger-related item loss, the method comprising: identifying, via image recognition, an item within vehicle cabin passenger regions as a passenger-related item; associating the item with an identified passenger when the item is identified as the passenger-related item; detecting, in response to detecting an exit of the identified passenger, a presence of the passenger-related item within the vehicle cabin passenger regions; generating an announcement message based on the presence of the passenger-related item within the vehicle cabin passenger regions; and transmitting the announcement message for alerting the identified passenger.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein identifying the item comprises: capturing, by a camera device, an image of the vehicle cabin passenger regions; identifying a region-of-interest of the image, wherein the region-of-interest is based on a detection confidence metric relating to within the vehicle cabin passenger regions, and wherein the detection confidence metric is an indicative of the item in the vehicle cabin passenger regions; upsampling the region-of-interest to produce an upsampled region-of-interest providing an enhanced focus to promote image recognition; and performing the image recognition of the upsampled region-of-interest of the image to identify the item within the vehicle cabin passenger regions.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the transmitting the announcement message comprises at least one of: transmitting a text message to the identified passenger for receipt by a handheld mobile device; transmitting the announcement message to the identified passenger for receipt by a client application of the handheld mobile device; or transmitting the announcement message to the identified passenger as a universal resource locator (URL) link for receipt by a user device.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the exiting of the identified passenger is detected by the camera device or a vehicle door sensor.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the identified passenger is identified by a passenger identifier comprises at least one of: a username; an international mobile equipment identity (IMEI) number; an electronic serial number (ESN)); or a unique identifier related to the identified passenger.
</claims>
</document>
