<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/332,G06F3/023,G06F3/0488,G06F3/16,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ASUMU, DONATUS
ZATEZALO, SHANE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69179280
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TOUCH-BASED AND AUDIO-RESPONSIVE USER INTERFACE FOR ELIMINATION OF A QUERY'S COMPONENT TERMS
</title>

<abstract>
A method for receiving and responding to user input is provided. The user input may be input via a user interface. The method may include receiving input from a user via the user interface. The method may also include transmitting the input to a response determination module. The response determination module may determine a system response to the input. The method may include displaying the system response to the user via the user interface. The method may include receiving an indication from the user that the system response is less than a predetermined threshold level of responsiveness. The method may include dividing the input into component terms and displaying the component terms on the user interface. The method may include enabling the user to eliminate component terms from the input in order to improve responsiveness of the system response, and receiving a selection of eliminated component terms.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system that receives and responds to user input, the user input being input via a mobile device, the system comprising: the mobile device, said mobile device operable to: receive input from a user; transmit the input to a response determination module, said response determination module operable to determine a system response to the input; transmit the system response to the user; receive an indication from the user that the system response is less than a predetermined threshold level of helpfulness, usefulness or responsiveness; divide the input into component terms; display the component terms to the user; enable the user to eliminate component terms from the input in order to improve helpfulness, usefulness or responsiveness of the system response; receive a selection of eliminated component terms from the user; display the selection of eliminated component terms as greyed-out; receive a double selection of at least one eliminated component term; and reinstate the at least one eliminated component term; wherein, in order to prevent the user from providing false negative indications, when more than a predetermined number of indications that the system response is less than the predetermined threshold level of helpfulness, usefulness or responsiveness, are received from the user, a significance attribute, said significance attribute that indicates the significance to be attributed by the response determination module to the selection of eliminated component terms, said significance attribute is divided by two.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the mobile device is further operable to: re-transmit the input absent the eliminated component terms to the response determination module, said response determination module further operable to determine an updated system response to the input; transmit the updated system response to the user; receive an indication from the user that the updated system response is greater than the predetermined threshold level of helpfulness, usefulness or responsiveness; and report to the response determination module that, as determined by the user, the eliminated component terms caused the system response to be indicated, by the user, as less than the predetermined threshold level of helpfulness, usefulness or responsiveness.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the response determination module uses the report that the eliminated component terms caused the system response to be indicated as less than the predetermined threshold level of helpfulness, usefulness or responsiveness in conjunction with data retrieved pertaining to the user to update artificial intelligence associated with the response determination module.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein, when an amount of indications, received from the user, divided by a total amount of inputs received from the user, is greater than a predetermined percentage, a significance attribute reported to the response determination module is reduced, said indications indicating that the system response is less than a predetermined threshold level of helpfulness, usefulness or responsiveness.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein, when an amount of indications, received from the user, divided by a predetermined, most-recent amount of inputs received from the user, is greater than a predetermined percentage, a significance attribute reported to the response determination module is reduced, said indications indicating that the system response is less than a predetermined threshold level of helpfulness, usefulness or responsiveness.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the input received from the user is textual input.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the input received from the user is verbal input.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the input received from the user is a combination of textual and verbal input.
9. A method for receiving and responding to user input, the user input being input via a user interface, the method comprising: receiving input from a user via the user interface; transmitting the input to a response determination module; determining a system response to the input at the response determination module; displaying the system response to the user via the user interface; receiving an indication from the user that the system response is less than a predetermined threshold level of responsiveness; dividing the input into component terms; displaying, on the user interface, the component terms to the user; enabling the user to eliminate component terms from the input in order to improve responsiveness of the system response; receiving a selection of eliminated component terms from the user via the user interface; displaying the selection of eliminated component terms as greyed-out; receiving a double selection of at least one eliminated component term; reinstating the at least one eliminated component term; and wherein, in order to prevent the user from providing false negative indications, when more than a predetermined number of indications that the system response is less than the predetermined threshold level of responsiveness, are received from the user, a significance attribute, said significance attribute that indicates the significance to be attributed by the response determination module to the selection of eliminated component terms, said significance attribute is divided by two.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: re-transmitting the input absent the eliminated component terms to the response determination module; determining an updated system response at the response determination module; transmitting the updated system response to the user; receiving an indication from the user that the updated system response is greater than the predetermined threshold level of responsiveness; and reporting to the response determination module that, as determined by the user, the eliminated component terms caused the system response to be indicated, by the user, as less than the predetermined threshold level of responsiveness.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the response determination module uses the eliminated component terms in conjunction with data retrieved pertaining to the user to update artificial intelligence associated with the response determination module.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein, when an amount of negative indications, received from the user, divided by a total amount of inputs, received from the user, is greater than a predetermined percentage, a significance attribute reported to the response determination module is reduced.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein, when an amount of negative indications, received from the user, divided by a predetermined, most-recent amount of inputs received from the user, is greater than a predetermined percentage, a significance attribute reported to the response determination module is reduced.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the input received from the user is textual input.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the input received from the user is verbal input.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein the input received from the user is a combination of textual and verbal input.
17. A method for receiving and responding to user input, the user input being input via a touch-based and audio-responsive user interface, the method comprising: receiving textual and/or verbal input from a user via the touch-based and audio-responsive user interface; transmitting the input to a response determination module; determining a system response to the input at the response determination module; displaying the system response to the user via the touch-based and audio-responsive user interface; receiving an indication from the user that the system response is less than a predetermined threshold level of responsiveness; dividing the input into component terms; displaying, on the touch-based and audio-responsive user interface, the component terms to the user; enabling the user to eliminate component terms from the input, in order to improve responsiveness of the system response, by touching one or more of the component terms; and receiving a touch-based elimination selection of one or more component terms from the user via the touch-based and audio-responsive user interface; displaying the selection of eliminated component as greyed-out; receiving a double selection of at least one eliminated component term; reinstating the at least one eliminated component term; and wherein, in order to prevent the user from providing false negative indications, when more than a predetermined number of indications that the system response is less than the predetermined threshold level of responsiveness, are received from the user, a significance attribute, said significance attribute that indicates the significance to be attributed by the response determination module to the selection of eliminated component terms, said significance attribute is divided by two.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the user interface is a mobile device.
</claims>
</document>
