<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/909,G06F16/957,G06F16/958
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WIX.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAUFMAN, AMIT
MARCUS, AVI
GANIM, OMER
AGAN, KARIN
FATTAL, OR
AHARON, NATHALIE
BEN-ARI, OR-AVRAHAM
WAXMAN, HANNAH
BLUMENFELD, UVAL ARIE
SHTEKEL, ITAY
YOSEF, MAOR
SHEFER, LIOR
BARZILAY, TZUFIT
CHEJANOVSKY, ITAI
SHALEV INBAR, NOAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70550325
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CREATION AND HANDLING OF CONFIGURABLE APPLICATIONS FOR WEBSITE BUILDING SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A website building system (WBS) includes a database of website components and definitions and instances of website building system configurable applications (WCAs), where the WCAs are single packaged entities which can also be accessed as a sets of customizable elements; a WCA app builder to enable a developer to develop a first version WCA; an in-site editor to provide specific editing capabilities for a user to edit at least one of a definition or an instance of the first version WCA and a WCA handler to receive a modification to the first version WCA from the user and an update to the first version WCA from the developer, the WCA handler to merge between the modification and the update to create a changed WCA, to resolve conflicts or loss of functionality and to handle permissions between the modification and the update.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A website building system, the system comprising: at least one database storing website components, together with definitions and instances of website building system configurable applications (WCAs), wherein said WCAs are single packaged entities which can also be accessed as a sets of customizable elements; a WCA app builder to enable a developer to build and edit a first version WCA; an in-site editor to provide specific editing capabilities for a user to edit at least one of a definition or an instance of said first version WCA; a WCA handler to receive at least one modification to said first version WCA from said user and at least one update to said first version WCA from said developer, said WCA handler to merge at least between said at least one modification and said at least one update to create a changed WCA, said WCA handler to also resolve conflicts or loss of functionality and to handle permissions between said least one modification and said at least one update; and a WCA site viewer to support viewing of said first version WCA and said changed WCA during runtime of said website building system.
2. The system according to claim 1 wherein said at least one database also stores website parameters for websites built by said website building system and user collected information for a user of said website building system, wherein said user collected information is at least one of: geographical location, language, editing history and collected business intelligence.
3. The system according to claim 1 wherein said WCA handler comprises at least one of: a ghost module to ensure operation of said changed WCA as a result of a removed element from said first version WCA by at least one of: said at least one modification, said at least one update and a combination thereof; and a masquerader to safeguard compatibility between a replaced element and the replacing element of said changed WCA as a result of at least one of: said at least one modification, said at least one update and a combination thereof to ensure operation of said changed WCA.
4. The system according to claim 3 wherein said ghost module performs at least one of: fetching the original definition, structure, and attributes of said removed component, providing some or all of the behavior of said removed component based on said user collected information and simulating an API for said removed component.
5. The system according to claim 3 wherein said masquerader provides a translation facility for interaction between elements of said changed WCA and said replacing element using specific translation drivers based on said website parameters and said user collected information.
6. The system according to claim 1 and also comprising: a WCA manager to provide management services for said first version WCA and said changed WCA within said website building system; a WCA CMS coordinator to access at least said website components and said user collected information from said least one database; and said WCA handler to coordinate activity between said WCA app builder, said WCA manager, said WCA site viewer, said WCA in-site editor and said WCA CMS coordinator.
7. The system according to claim 1 wherein said WCA app builder comprises: a customization panel creator to configure and generate associated specific customization panels for a WCA; a dialog editor to enable the creation and editing of definitions for customizable elements for a WCA; and a WCA analyzer to perform at least one of: recognize repeating or hierarchical elements in the structure of a WCA; perform static source analysis on a WCA for said customization panel creator; perform static source analysis to determine runtime permissions for a WCA and to generate template code.
8. The system according to claim 3 and also comprising at least one of: a WCA modification handler to receive and resolve conflicts between said at least one modification and said at least one update for said first version WCA; a machine learner (ML)/artificial intelligence (AI) module to employ machine learning and artificial intelligence techniques to provide support for said resolution of said conflicts and said loss of functionality for said ghost module and said masquerader and to provide merging support for said WCA modification handler; an Application Programming Interface (API) handler to replace at least said first version WCA with at least one other WCA having an identical or similar API; an alert provider to provide alerts regarding implementation and use of said WCA handler; a feedback provider to gather information and provide analysis on general WCA instance changes; and a database connector to check for field types and previous connections made by said user or other users of said at least one WCA.
9. The system according to claim 8 wherein said WCA modification handler comprises: an update receiver to receive said at least one modification and said at least one update to said first version WCA; an API analyzer to analyze the pre-packaged API of an existing WCA to detect the API properties and interfaces and to generate a matching settings panel for a changed version of said WCA; a WCA merger to merge said at least one modification and said at least one update to create said changed WCA from said first version WCA; a change resolver to resolve conflicts between said at least one modification and said at least one update; a permission determiner to determine and apply any permission restrictions for said at least one modification and said at least one update and to determine any permissions required at runtime for said changed WCA; and a change applier to apply said at least one modification and said at least one update to said first version WCA according to said WCA merger, said change resolver and said permission determiner to create said changed WCA.
10. The system according to claim 9 wherein said WCA merger comprises: a difference analyzer to gather and analyze the change set between said at least one modification and said at least one update; and a conflict resolver to resolve conflicts between said at least one modification and said at least one update.
11. The system according to claim 1 and wherein said at least one update is according to user change acceptance rules regarding WCA components and their attributes.
12. The system according to claim 9 wherein said WCA merger merges according to at least one of: developer or user hints, semantic tags and the output of said decision engine.
13. A method for a website building system, the method comprising: storing in at least one database, website components, together with definitions and instances of website building system configurable applications (WCAs), wherein said WCAs are single packaged entities which can also be accessed as a sets of customizable elements; enabling a developer to build and edit a first version WCA; providing specific editing capabilities for a user to edit at least one of a definition or an instance of said first version WCA; receiving at least one modification to said first version WCA from said user and at least one update to said first version WCA from said developer; merging at least between said at least one modification and said at least one update; resolving conflicts or loss of functionality and handling permissions between said least one modification and said at least one update; creating a changed WCA from said merging, said resolving and said handling permissions; and supporting viewing of said first version WCA and said changed WCA during runtime of said website building system.
14. The method according to claim 13 wherein said storing also stores website parameters for websites built by said website building system and user collected information for a user of said website building system, wherein said user collected information is at least one of: geographical location, language, editing history and collected business intelligence.
15. The method according to claim 13 wherein said receiving, merging, resolving conflicts and handling permissions comprises at least one of: ensuring operation of said changed WCA as a result of a removed element from said first version WCA by at least one of: said at least one modification, said at least one update and a combination thereof; and safeguarding compatibility between a replaced element and the replacing element of said changed WCA as a result of at least one of: said at least one modification, said at least one update and a combination thereof to ensure operation of said changed WCA.
16. The method according to claim 15 wherein said ensuring operation of said changed WCA as a result of a removed element comprises performing at least one of: fetching the original definition, structure, and attributes of said removed component, providing some or all of the behavior of said removed component based on said user collected information and simulating an API for said removed component.
17. The method according to claim 15 wherein said safeguarding compatibility comprises providing a translation facility for interaction between elements of said changed WCA and said replacing element using specific translation drivers based on said website parameters and said user collected information.
18. The method according to claim 13 and also comprising: providing management services for said first version WCA and said changed WCA within said website building system; accessing at least said website components and said user collected information from said least one database; and coordinating activity between said enabling a developer, said receiving, merging, resolving conflicts and handling permissions, said providing management services, said providing specific editing capabilities, said supporting viewing and said accessing.
19. The method according to claim 13 wherein said enabling a developer to build and edit a first version WCA comprises: configuring and generating associated specific customization panels for a WCA; enabling the creation and editing of definitions for customizable elements for a WCA; and performing at least one of: recognizing repeating or hierarchical elements in the structure of a WCA; performing static source analysis on a WCA for said configuring and generating associated specific customization panels; performing static source analysis to determine runtime permissions for a WCA and generating template code.
20. The method according to claim 15 and also comprising at least one of: receiving and resolving conflicts between said at least one modification and said at least one update for said first version WCA; employing machine learning and artificial intelligence techniques to provide support for said resolution of said conflicts and said loss of functionality for said ensuring operation of said changed WCA as a result of a removed element and said safeguarding compatibility and to provide merging support for said receiving and resolving conflicts; replacing at least said first version WCA with at least one other WCA having an identical or similar API; providing alerts regarding implementation of said receiving, merging, resolving conflicts and handling permissions; gathering information and providing analysis on general WCA instance changes; and checking for field types and previous connections made by said user or other users of said at least one WCA.
21. The method according to claim 20 wherein said receiving and resolving conflicts comprises: receiving said at least one modification and said at least one update to said first version WCA; analyzing the pre-packaged API of an existing WCA, detecting the API properties and interfaces and generating a matching settings panel for a changed version of said WCA; merging said at least one modification and said at least one update to create said changed WCA from said first version WCA; resolving conflicts between said at least one modification and said at least one update; determining and applying any permission restrictions for said at least one modification and said at least one update and determining any permissions required at runtime for said changed WCA; and applying said at least one modification and said at least one update to said first version WCA according to said merging, said resolving conflicts and said determining and applying any permission restrictions and creating said changed WCA.
22. The method according to claim 21 wherein said merging comprises: gathering and analyzing the change set between said at least one modification and said at least one update; and resolving conflicts between said at least one modification and said at least one update.
23. The method according to claim 1 and wherein said at least one update is according to user change acceptance rules regarding WCA components and their attributes.
24. The method according to claim 21 wherein said merging merges according to at least one of: developer or user hints, semantic tags and the output of said decision engine.
</claims>
</document>
