<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F3/0488,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WETMORE, DANIEL
Reisman, Jason
Rubin, Ran
Jayaram, Vinay
Singhal, Tanay
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72607827
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CONTROL SCHEMES BASED ON NEUROMUSCULAR DATA
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed systems and methods are generally directed generating user control schemes based on neuromuscular data. The disclosed systems and methods may comprise feature space or latent space representations of neuromuscular data to train users and for users to achieve greater neuromuscular control of machines and computers. In certain embodiments, the systems and methods employ multiple distinct inferential models (e.g., full control schemes using inferential models trained in multiple regions of a feature space). Various other methods, systems, and computer-readable media are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more neuromuscular sensors that receive a plurality of signal data from a user; at least one physical processor; physical memory comprising computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the physical processor, cause the physical processor to: receive and process the plurality of signal data; map the processed signal data to a feature space defined by one or more parameters corresponding to the processed signal data; identify a first subregion within the feature space based on the mapping of a first plurality of processed signal data; associate a first inferential model with the identified first subregion within the feature space; and apply the first inferential model to a third plurality of processed signal data based on the mapping of a third plurality of processed signal data corresponding to the first subregion of the feature space.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the physical processor to: identify a second subregion within the feature space based on a second plurality of processed signal data; and apply a second inferential model to a fourth plurality of processed signal data based on the fourth plurality of processed signal data corresponding to the second subregion of the feature space.
3. A system comprising: one or more neuromuscular sensors that receive a plurality of signal data from a user; at least one physical processor; physical memory comprising computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the physical processor, cause the physical processor to: receive and process a first plurality of signal data; generate a feature space defined by one or more parameters corresponding to the first plurality of processed signal data; map a plurality of regions within the feature space, wherein mapping the plurality of regions comprises: associating each of the plurality of regions with a corresponding input mode; and associating each input mode with a corresponding inferential model; automatically detect an input mode based on a second plurality of signal data; automatically select a first inferential model based on the detected input mode; and generate an output signal by applying the first inferential model to the second plurality of signal data.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the input mode relates to classification of at least one of the following events: hand poses; discrete gestures; continuous gestures; finger taps; 2-D wrist rotation; or typing actions.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the input mode relates to classification of a force level associated with at least one of the following events: discrete gestures; finger taps; hand poses; or continuous gestures.
6. The system of claim 3, wherein the selected first inferential model comprises a personalized model previously trained based on processed signal data collected from the same user.
7. The system of claim 3, wherein identifying a plurality of regions within the feature space further comprises optimizing the size and shape of the regions based on a computational analysis of the processed signal data.
8. The system of claim 3, wherein processing the plurality of signal data comprises applying either a one Euro filter or a two Euro filter to the plurality of signal data.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein automatically detecting the input mode based on the processed plurality of signal data comprises applying a gate that is associated with an input event that occurs within the input mode to the one Euro filter.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein applying the gate to the one Euro filter comprises modifying an adaptive time constant of the one Euro filter.
11. The system of claim 3, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the physical processor to: process the plurality of signal data to generate a lower-dimensional latent space; present a visualization of the lower-dimensional latent space within a graphical interface; and update the visualization of the lower-dimensional latent space in real-time as new signal data is received by plotting the new signal data as one or more latent vectors within the lower-dimensional latent space.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the visualization of the latent space comprises a visualization of boundaries between latent classification subregions within the latent space.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein: one or more of the latent classification subregions correspond to the plurality of regions; and the visualization of the latent space comprises labels applied to the latent classification subregions that describe corresponding input modes of the latent classification subregions.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the physical processor to: present a repeated prompt within the graphical interface for a user to perform a target input; identify the new signal data as an attempt by the user to perform the target input; determine that the new signal data falls in inconsistent latent classification subregions; and presenting a prompt to the user to retrain the first inferential model.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the physical processor to: present a repeated prompt within the graphical interface for a user to perform a target input; identify the new signal data as an attempt by the user to perform the target input; determine that the new signal data does not fall within a latent classification subregion corresponding to the target input; and receive input from the user to modify the first inferential model such that the new signal data would fall within the latent classification subregion corresponding to the target input.
16. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving and processing an initial plurality of signal data from one or more neuromuscular sensors; generating a feature space defined by one or more parameters corresponding to the initial plurality of processed signal data; mapping a plurality of regions within the feature space, wherein mapping the plurality of regions comprises: associating each of the plurality of regions with a corresponding input mode; and associating each input mode with a corresponding inferential model; automatically detecting an input mode based on a subsequent plurality of signal data; automatically selecting the corresponding inferential model based on the detected input mode; and generating an output signal by applying the corresponding inferential model to the subsequent plurality of signal data.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the input mode relates to classification of at least one of the following events: hand poses; discrete gestures; continuous gestures; finger taps; 2-D wrist rotation; or typing actions.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein processing the plurality of signal data comprises applying a one Euro filter or a two Euro filter to the plurality of signal data.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein automatically detecting the input mode based on the subsequent plurality of signal data comprises applying a gate that is associated with an input event that occurs within the input mode to the one Euro filter.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, further comprising: processing the plurality of signal data to a lower-dimensional latent space; presenting a visualization of the lower-dimensional latent space within a graphical interface; and updating the visualization of the lower-dimensional latent space in real-time as new signal data is received by plotting the new signal data as one or more latent vectors within the lower-dimensional latent space.
</claims>
</document>
