<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, JAE YONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67775596
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM ON CHIP, METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROTECTING INFORMATION USING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is an information protection apparatus that executes artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms and/or machine learning algorithms and is capable of communicating with other electronic devices and external servers in a 5G communication environment. The apparatus includes a system on a chip, a camera, a display, and a processor. By providing the information protection apparatus, privacy information can be protected more effectively.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for protecting information, the apparatus comprising: a system on a chip (SoC) memory which is disposed in a predetermined SoC and includes a first region accessible only by a unit having an access right; and a HW filter configured to monitor at least one unit attempting to access the SoC memory and, when a unit without an access right attempts to access the first region, block access of the unit without an access right.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a processor configured to store, in a filter storage of the HW filter, unit specific information of the unit having an access right to the first region, wherein the HW filter is configured to determine a unit that has access to the first region based on the unit specific information stored in the filter storage unit.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the HW filter is disposed on a system bus between at least one unit attempting a read or write operation in the SoC memory, and the SoC memory.
4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein, when a predetermined unit attempts to access a second region of the SoC memory without access restriction, the HW filter allows an operation of the predetermined unit.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein: when privacy information is included in inputted content information, the processor is configured to store the content information in the first region of the SoC memory, and when privacy information is not included in the inputted content information, the processor is configured to store the content information in the second region of the SoC memory.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising, when the inputted content information includes image information, an object recognizer configured to recognize an object from the image information, and wherein, when privacy information is included in the image information or the recognized object, the processor is configured to store the content information in the first region.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the object recognizer comprises: a vision information extractor configured to extract feature information from the image information or the recognized object based on vision recognition; and a neural network calculator configured to determine whether the image information or the recognized object includes the privacy information, by using the extracted feature information as an input, based on a previously stored learning model.
8. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein, when the unit without an access right requests predetermined content information stored in the first region, the processor is configured to determine whether the requested content information includes privacy information, and provide, to the unit without an access right, information on whether the privacy information is included, based on information on the determination.
9. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising, when content information included in the first region is transmitted to an outside of the apparatus or the SoC, a security enhancement module configured to encrypt content information to be transmitted.
10. A system on a chip (SoC) comprising: a system on a chip (SoC) memory including a first region accessible only by a unit having an access right, and a second region without access restriction; a HW filter configured to monitor at least one unit attempting to access the SoC memory and, when a unit without an access right tries to access the first region, block access of the unit without an access right; and an SoC processor configured to store, in a filter storage of the HW filter, unit specific information of the unit having an access right to the first region.
11. The SoC of claim 10, wherein, when privacy information is included in inputted content information, the SoC processor is configured to store the content information in the first region of the SoC memory, and wherein, when privacy information is not included in the inputted content information, the SoC processor is configured to store the content information in the second region of the SoC memory.
12. The SoC of claim 11, further comprising, when the inputted content information includes image information, an object recognizer configured to recognize an object from the image information, wherein, when privacy information is included in the image information or the recognized object, the SoC processor is configured to store the content information in the first region.
13. The SoC of claim 12, wherein the object recognizer comprises: a vision information extractor configured to extract feature information from the image information or the recognized object based on vision recognition; and a neural network calculator configured to determine whether the image information or the recognized object includes the privacy information, by using the extracted feature information as an input, based on a previously stored learning model.
14. A method of protecting information by using a system on a chip (SoC), the method comprising: allocating, to an SoC memory, a first region accessible by a unit having an access right and a second region without access restriction; storing, in a HW filter, unit specific information of a unit having an access right to the first region; monitoring, by the HW filter, at least one unit attempting to access the SoC memory; and when a unit without an access right attempts to access the first region, blocking access of the unit without an access right.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: when privacy information is included in inputted content information, storing the content information in the first region; and when privacy information is not included in the inputted content information, storing the content information in the second region.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: when the inputted content information includes image information, recognizing an object from the image information; and when privacy information is included in the image information or the recognized object, storing the content information in the first region.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the recognizing of the object comprises: extracting feature information from the image information or the recognized object based on vision recognition; and determining whether the image information or the recognized object includes the privacy information, by using the extracted feature information as an input, based on a previously stored learning model.
18. The method of claim 14, after the blocking of the access of the unit without an access right, further comprising: when the unit without an access right requests predetermined content information stored in the first region, determining whether the requested content information includes privacy information; and providing, to the unit without an access right, information on whether the privacy information is included, based on information on the determination.
19. The method of claim 14, further comprising: when content information included in the first region is transmitted to an outside of the SoC, encrypting content information to be transmitted.
</claims>
</document>
