<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T5/00,G06T5/20,G06T5/40,G06T7/12,G06T7/155
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
HEBBALAGUPPE, RAMYA
MAURYA, JITENDER KUMAR
GUPTA, PUNEET
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67544055
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PERFORMING HAND SEGMENTATION
</title>

<abstract>
Hand segmentation on wearable devices is a challenging computer vision problem with a complex background because of varying illumination conditions, computational capacity of device(s), different skin tone of users from varied race, and presence of skin color background. Embodiments of the present disclosure provide systems and methods for performing, in real time, hand segmentation by pre-processing an input image to improve contrast and removing noise/artifacts. Multi Orientation Matched Filter (MOMF) is implemented and applied on the pre-processed image by rotating the MOMF at various orientations to form an edge image which comprises strong edges and weak edges. Weak edges are further removed using morphological operation. The edge image is then added to the input image (or pre-processed image) to separate different texture region in image. Largest skin-color blob is then extracted which is considered to be correct segmented hand.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A processor implemented method, comprising: obtaining an input image comprising at least a hand and a background; pre-processing the input image to obtain a pre-processed image comprising a pre-processed hand and pre-processed background; applying a Multi Orientation Matched Filter (MOMF) on the pre-processed image to obtain a plurality of filter responses; merging the plurality of filter responses to obtain a merged filter response that comprises a plurality of strong edges and one or more weak edges; filtering the one or more weak edges formed as one or more isolated blobs from the merged filter response to obtain a resultant edge map; adding the resultant edge map to the pre-processed image to obtain a resultant image, wherein the resultant image comprises texture regions that are isolated from each other; detecting, using one or more chroma channels, a plurality of skin pixels from the resultant image; and identifying a largest blob of skin pixels from the resultant image, wherein the largest blob of skin pixels is a segmented hand.
2. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the step of pre-processing the image comprises down-sampling the image to obtain a down-sampled image and applying a Contrast Limited Local Histogram Equalization (CLAHE) technique on the down-sampled image to obtain the pre-processed image.
3. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein a plurality of weak edges are filtered during pre-processing of the input image by applying a Gaussian smoothing technique on the input image.
4. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the Multi Orientation Matched Filter (MOMF) is applied on the pre-processed image by rotating the MOMF at one or more predefined orientations for detecting the one or more strong edges.
5. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more weak edges formed as one or more isolated blobs are filtered by applying a Morphological erosion technique on the merged filter response.
6. A system comprising: a memory storing instructions; one or more communication interfaces; and one or more hardware processors coupled to the memory via the one or more communication interfaces, wherein the one or more hardware processors are configured by the instructions to: obtain an input image comprising at least a hand and a background; pre-process the input image to obtain a pre-processed image comprising a pre-processed hand and pre-processed background; apply a Multi Orientation Matched Filter (MOMF) on the pre-processed image to obtain a plurality of filter responses; merge the plurality of filter responses to obtain a merged filter response that comprises a plurality of strong edges and one or more weak edges; filter the one or more weak edges formed as one or more isolated blobs from the merged filter response to obtain a resultant edge map; add the resultant edge map to the pre-processed image to obtain a resultant image, wherein the resultant image comprises texture regions that are isolated from each other; detect, using one or more chroma channels, a plurality of skin pixels from the resultant image; and identify a largest blob of skin pixels from the resultant image, wherein the largest blob of skin pixels is a segmented hand.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the image is pre-processed by: down-sampling the image to obtain a down-sampled image; and applying a Contrast Limited Local Histogram Equalization (CLAHE) technique on the down-sampled image to obtain the pre-processed image.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein a plurality of weak edges are filtered during pre-processing of the input image by applying a Gaussian smoothing technique on the input image.
9. The system of claim 6, wherein the Multi Orientation Matched Filter (MOMF) is applied on the pre-processed image by rotating the MOMF at one or more predefined orientations for detecting the one or more strong edges.
10. The system of claim 6, wherein the one or more weak edges formed as one or more isolated blobs are filtered by applying a Morphological erosion technique on the merged filter response.
11. One or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums comprising one or more instructions which when executed by one or more hardware processors cause: obtaining an input image comprising at least a hand and a background; pre-processing the input image to obtain a pre-processed image comprising a pre-processed hand and pre-processed background; applying a Multi Orientation Matched Filter (MOMF) on the pre-processed image to obtain a plurality of filter responses; merging the plurality of filter responses to obtain a merged filter response that comprises a plurality of strong edges and one or more weak edges; filtering the one or more weak edges formed as one or more isolated blobs from the merged filter response to obtain a resultant edge map; adding the resultant edge map to the pre-processed image to obtain a resultant image, wherein the resultant image comprises texture regions that are isolated from each other; detecting, using one or more chroma channels, a plurality of skin pixels from the resultant image; and identifying a largest blob of skin pixels from the resultant image, wherein the largest blob of skin pixels is a segmented hand.
12. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of claim 11, wherein the step of pre-processing the image comprises down-sampling the image to obtain a down-sampled image and applying a Contrast Limited Local Histogram Equalization (CLAHE) technique on the down-sampled image to obtain the pre-processed image.
13. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of claim 11, wherein a plurality of weak edges are filtered during pre-processing of the input image by applying a Gaussian smoothing technique on the input image.
14. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of claim 11, wherein the Multi Orientation Matched Filter (MOMF) is applied on the pre-processed image by rotating the MOMF at one or more predefined orientations for detecting the one or more strong edges.
15. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of claim 11, wherein the one or more weak edges formed as one or more isolated blobs are filtered by applying a Morphological erosion technique on the merged filter response.
</claims>
</document>
