<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/418,G06K19/06,G06K7/10,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICRON TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
Principato, Giuseppe
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046340
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTROLLING TRANSPORT OF PHYSICAL OBJECTS BASED ON SCANNING OF ENCODED IMAGES
</title>

<abstract>
Transport of physical objects is controlled based on scanning of encoded images. In one approach, an encoded image on a physical object is scanned to obtain parameters. The parameters include specifications for a product to be made by a manufacturing process. One or more rules are generated using the parameters and then stored in a database. The database is queried to determine whether the product conforms to the one or more rules. For example, the query may include data regarding characteristics of the final product and/or the manufacturing process. In response to determining that the product conforms to the rules, the product is transported to a distribution facility.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, from a manufacturer, a printed document including a first encoded image; scanning, by a scanner, the first encoded image to obtain first parameters comprising specifications for a product to be made by a manufacturing process; generating, by at least one computing device and using the first parameters, at least one manufacturer rule, the at least one manufacturer rule including restricting the product based on an age of the product; storing, in a database, the at least one manufacturer rule; determining, based on querying the database, whether the product conforms to the at least one manufacturer rule; and in response to determining that the product conforms to the at least one manufacturer rule, causing transport of the product to the manufacturer.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein a second encoded image is disposed on the product or packaging for the product when transported, and wherein the second encoded image is configured for scanning by the manufacturer to obtain second parameters including the at least one manufacturer rule.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising controlling, by the at least one computing device in conformance with the at least one manufacturer rule, the manufacturing process.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein controlling the manufacturing process comprises controlling an operating characteristic for a manufacturing machine used in making the product.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the printed document is a production part approval process (PPAP) document, or a part submission warrant (PSW) document.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one manufacturer rule is an output from a machine-learning model that uses the first parameters as inputs.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one manufacturer rule is a customer containment rule (CCR) that determines one of several versions of the product that can be shipped to the manufacturer.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one manufacturer rule is a first customer containment rule (CCR), each of a plurality of CCRs including the first CCR is associated with a respective manufacturer, and each CCR determines a type of the product that is shipped to the respective manufacturer.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one manufacturer rule relates to: restricting performance of one or more manufacturing steps in the manufacturing process to a specified manufacturing facility or location.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the first parameters include a link, the method further comprising accessing, using the link, stored data associated with the specifications, wherein the at least one manufacturer rule is generated using the stored data.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a first rule associated with a first step of the manufacturing process, wherein the first rule corresponds to a physical characteristic associated with a manufacturing machine used in the first step; and controlling, based on the first rule, a second step of the manufacturing process.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the physical characteristic is an excursion of the manufacturing machine outside of a predetermined operating limit.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the first step follows the second step in the manufacturing process, the method further comprising, after controlling the second step: sending a communication to a computing device indicating that the second step has been controlled based on the first rule.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein a second encoded image is disposed on the product or packaging for the product when transported, and wherein the second encoded image is configured for scanning by the manufacturer to obtain at least one second parameter indicating that the second step has been controlled based on the first rule.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, using the at least one manufacturer rule, a report for the manufacturer, the report comprising a second encoded image including the first parameters; and sending, over a communication network, the report to at least one of a distribution facility server or a customer facility server.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein transport of the product to the manufacturer comprises transport to a distribution facility including the distribution facility server, wherein the first parameters are obtained from scanning the second encoded image at the distribution facility, and wherein the product is transported from the distribution facility to the manufacturer based on the first parameters obtained from scanning the second encoded image at the distribution facility.
17. A system comprising: at least one processing device; and memory containing instructions configured to instruct the at least one processing device to: scan a first encoded image on a physical object to obtain first parameters comprising specifications for a product to be made by a manufacturing process; generate, using the first parameters, at least one manufacturer rule, the at least one manufacturer rule including restricting the product based on an age of the product; store, in memory, the at least one manufacturer rule; determine whether the product conforms to the at least one manufacturer rule; and in response to determining that the product conforms to the at least one manufacturer rule, perform at least one action associated with the product.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the physical object is: a paper or plastic document; a card; a label affixed to the product made by the manufacturing process; a label affixed to a container that holds the product made by the manufacturing process; a machine used in the manufacturing process; or a package for the product made by the manufacturing process, wherein the first encoded image is engraved on the package.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the at least one manufacturer rule relates to at least one of: chemical processing conditions for making the product; testing processes for testing the product; design parameters for the product; or a material used to build the product.
20. A non-transitory computer storage medium storing instructions which, when executed on a computing device, cause the computing device to at least: scan a first encoded image on a physical object to obtain first parameters comprising specifications for a product to be made by a manufacturing process; generate, using the first parameters, at least one manufacturer rule, the at least one manufacturer rule including restricting the product based on an age of the product; store, in a database, the at least one manufacturer rule; determine, based on querying the database, whether the product conforms to the at least one manufacturer rule; and in response to determining that the product conforms to the at least one manufacturer rule, perform an action associated with the product.
</claims>
</document>
