<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/10,H04L12/26,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOJO NETWORKS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUPTA, KARAN
THAKOR, NILAYSINH
KRISHNAMURTHY, GOPINATH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70850803
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROFILING TELECONFERENCE SESSION QUALITY IN COMMUNICATION NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for profiling teleconference session quality in communication networks. Specifically, the disclosed method and system entail providing classifications labeling teleconference session quality using a classification model. The classification model may produce these aforementioned quality classifications based on the ingestion of features extracted from teleconference session network traffic, which may have traversed through sampling network device(s) positioned in the network traffic path of the teleconference session between client devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for profiling teleconference session quality, comprising: inspecting a first teleconference session segment of a teleconference session to obtain a first feature tuple; processing the first feature tuple using a classification learning model to obtain a first quality classification; and providing, to an admin device, overall teleconference session metrics for the teleconference session based at least on the first quality classification.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first feature tuple comprises a set of values respective to a set of teleconference session features.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the set of teleconference session features comprises at least one selected from a group consisting of a network traffic bit rate, a network traffic packet rate, a network traffic bit rate jitter, a network traffic packet rate jitter, and a transport layer protocol.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the classification learning model is a support vector machine.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: prior to providing the overall teleconference session metrics to the admin device: aggregating a set of quality classifications, obtained throughout the teleconference session, comprising the first quality classification; and deriving a negative performance index for the teleconference session based on the set of quality qualifications, wherein the overall teleconference metrics comprise the negative performance index.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the overall teleconference session metrics further comprise a root cause analysis result indicative of a root cause for the negative performance index.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising: prior to aggregating the set of quality classifications: inspecting a second teleconference session segment of the teleconference session to obtain a second feature tuple; and processing the second feature tuple using the classification learning model to obtain a second quality classification, wherein when aggregated, the set of quality classifications further comprises the second quality classification.
8. A system, comprising: an admin device comprising a first computer processor; and a teleconference analytics service operatively connected to the admin device, and comprising a second computer processor programmed to: obtain a feature tuple for a teleconference session segment of a teleconference session; process the feature tuple using a classification learning model to obtain a quality classification; and provide, to the admin device, overall teleconference session metrics for the teleconference session based at least on the quality classification.
9. The system of claim 8, further comprising: a sampling network device that operatively connects to the teleconference analytics service or comprises at least a portion of the teleconference analytics service, and is programmed to inspect the teleconference session segment of the teleconference session to obtain the feature tuple.
10. The system of claim 9, further comprising: a teleconference service operatively connected to the sampling network device, and comprising a third computer processor programmed to manage the real-time exchange of information during the teleconference session.
11. The system of claim 10, further comprising: a communications network comprising the teleconference service and the sampling network device.
12. The system of claim 11, further comprising: a pair of client devices operatively connected to one another through the communications network, wherein communications exchanged between the pair of client devices comprise the network traffic for the teleconference session.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the sampling network device is a switch, a router, or a multilayer switch.
14. A non-transitory computer readable medium (CRM) comprising computer readable program code, which when executed by a computer processor, enables the computer processor to: inspect a first teleconference session segment of a teleconference session to obtain a first feature tuple; process the first feature tuple using a classification learning model to obtain a first quality classification; and provide, to an admin device, overall teleconference session metrics for the teleconference session based at least on the first quality classification.
15. The non-transitory CRM of claim 14, wherein the first feature tuple comprises a set of values respective to a set of teleconference session features.
16. The non-transitory CRM of claim 15, wherein the set of teleconference session features comprises at least one selected from a group consisting of a network traffic bit rate, a network traffic packet rate, a network traffic bit rate jitter, a network traffic packet rate jitter, and a transport layer protocol.
17. The non-transitory CRM of claim 14, wherein the classification learning model is a support vector machine.
18. The non-transitory CRM of claim 14, comprising computer readable program code, which when executed by the computer processor, further enables the computer processor to: prior to providing the overall teleconference session metrics to the admin device: aggregate a set of quality classifications, obtained throughout the teleconference session, comprising the first quality classification; and derive a negative performance index for the teleconference session based on the set of quality qualifications, wherein the overall teleconference metrics comprise the negative performance index.
19. The non-transitory CRM of claim 18, wherein the overall teleconference session metrics further comprise a root cause analysis result indicative of a root cause for the negative performance index.
20. The non-transitory CRM of claim 18, comprising computer readable program code, which when executed by the computer processor, further enables the computer processor to: prior to aggregating the set of quality classifications: inspect a second teleconference session segment of the teleconference session to obtain a second feature tuple; and process the second feature tuple using the classification learning model to obtain a second quality classification, wherein when aggregated, the set of quality classifications further comprises the second quality classification.
</claims>
</document>
