<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/26,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Online Media Holdings Ltd
</assignee>

<inventors>
WILLIAMS, PETER
Barouch, Jonathan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72663316
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NETWORK-BASED PARTIAL AND FULL USER IDENTIFICATION TECHNIQUES
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for network-based user authentication are provided. In one embodiment, a method is provided that include receiving a request to connect to a local network. The request may be received from a user device and may include a user device identifier. The method may then include allowing the user device to connect to the local network and create a partial identity of a user of the user device. The partial identity may include a plurality of identification factors associated with the user. The method may then include monitoring network activities of the user device and updating the partial identity based on the monitored network activities.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-15 (canceled)
16. A method comprising: receiving a request from a user device to connect to a local network, wherein the request includes a user device identifier; allowing the user device to connect to the local network; responsive to allowing the user device to connect, creating a partial identity of a user of the user device, wherein the partial identity includes a plurality of identification factors associated with the user; monitoring one or more network activities of the user device on the local network; and updating the partial identity of the user based on the one or more monitored network activities.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: presenting a user feedback request to the user device without determining a full identity of the user; receiving a response to the user feedback request; and storing the response associated with the partial identity.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising: generating a personalized service offering for the user based on the partial identity without determining a full identity of the user.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: updating the partial identity responsive to the user accepting or rejecting the personalized service offering by: identifying a service-based preference associated with the personalized service offering; responsive to the user accepting the personalized service offering, adding a positive indication of the service-based preference to the partial identity; and responsive to the user rejecting the personalized service offering, adding a negative indication of the service-based preference to the partial identity.
20. The method of claim 16, further comprising: monitoring locations of the user device within a network service area of the local network, wherein the locations are determined based at least in part on a signal strength between the user device and a wireless network device implementing the local network, and wherein the partial identity is also updated based on the monitored locations.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein updating the partial identity based on the monitored locations further comprises: identifying a location-based service associated with a physical location of the user device within the network service area indicated by the signal strength between the user device and a network device implementing the local network; identifying a location-based preference associated with the location-based service; and adding an indication of the location-based preference to the partial identity.
22. The method of claim 16, wherein the network activities include one or more activities selected from the group consisting of: the user device accessing one or more network services, network usage patterns of the user device, and web browsing activities of the user device.
23. The method of claim 16, wherein allowing the user device to connect to the local network includes receiving user credentials associated with a user of the user device, and wherein creating the partial identity further includes deriving a user identifier from the user credentials.
24. The method of claim 16, further comprising: continuing to monitor one or more additional network activities of the user device on the local network; and obtaining a full identity of the user based on the one or more additional network activities.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the full identity includes at least one of a full name of the user, a preference of the user, an email address of the user, and a phone number of the user.
26. The method of claim 16, further comprising: receiving a second request from a second user device to connect to the local network, wherein the request includes a second user device identifier; identifying a common portion of the partial identity and the second user device identifier; and associating the second user device with the partial identity.
27. The method of claim 16, further comprising: receiving a second request from the user device to connect to a second local network, wherein the request includes the user device identifier; and updating the partial identity to include the second local network.
28. A system comprising: a processor; and a memory storing instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: receive a request from a user device to connect to a local network, wherein the request includes a user device identifier; allow the user device to connect to the local network; responsive to allowing the user device to connect, create a partial identity of a user of the user device, wherein the partial identity includes a plurality of identification factors associated with the user; monitor one or more network activities of the user device on the local network; and update the partial identity of the user based on the one or more monitored network activities.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the memory stores further instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: present a user feedback request to the user device without determining a full identity of the user; receive a response to the user feedback request; and store the response associated with the partial identity.
30. The system of claim 28, wherein the memory stores further instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: generate a personalized service offering for the user based on the partial identity without determining a full identity of the user; and update the partial identity responsive to the user accepting or rejecting the personalized service offering by: identifying a service-based preference associated with the personalized service offering; responsive to the user accepting the personalized service offering, adding a positive indication of the service-based preference to the partial identity; and responsive to the user rejecting the personalized service offering, adding a negative indication of the service-based preference to the partial identity.
31. The system of claim 28, wherein the memory stores further instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: monitor locations of the user device within a network service area of the local network over time, wherein the locations are determined based at least in part on a signal strength between the user device and a wireless network device implementing the local network, and wherein the partial identity is also updated based on the monitored locations.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein the memory stores further instructions which, when executed by the processor while updating the partial identity based on the monitored locations, cause the processor to: identify a location-based service associated with a physical location of the user device within the network service area indicated by the signal strength between the user device and a network device implementing the local network; identify a location-based preference associated with the location-based service; and add an indication of the location-based preference to the partial identity.
33. The system of claim 28, wherein the memory stores further instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: receive a second request from a second user device to connect to the local network, wherein the request includes a second user device identifier; identify a common portion of the partial identity and the second user device identifier; and associate the second user device with the partial identity.
34. The system of claim 28, wherein the memory stores further instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: receive a second request from the user device to connect to a second local network, wherein the request includes the user device identifier; and update the partial identity to include the second local network.
35. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: receive a request from a user device to connect to a local network, wherein the request includes a user device identifier; allow the user device to connect to the local network; responsive to allowing the user device to connect, create a partial identity of a user of the user device, wherein the partial identity is a collection of identification factors associated with the user; monitor one or more network activities of the user device on the local network; and update the partial identity of the user based on the one or more monitored network activities.
</claims>
</document>
