<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/06,G06F9/30,G11C11/00,G11C11/418,G11C11/419,G11C13/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MemryX Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
LU WEI
ZHANG, ZHENGYA
LIU, CHESTER
Zidan, Mohammed
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73050868
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Memory Processing Units and Methods of Computing DOT Products Including Zero Bit Skipping
</title>

<abstract>
A memory processing unit can be configured to compute partial products between one or more elements of a first matrix stored in a first storage location and sequential bits of one or more elements of a second matrix stored in a second storage location. The partial products can be calculated utilizing zero bit skipping to increase throughput and or reduce energy consumption. The partial products for each column of elements can be accumulated and bit shifted to compute the dot product of the first and second matrix.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device comprising: a first storage location configured to store a set of multipliers; a second storage location configured to store a set of multiplicands; a bit skipping logic configured to determine rows for a given bit position in a second storage location that hold non-zero values; one or more readout circuitry configured to; sequential bias rows of the first storage location corresponding to non-zero value rows for the given bit position in the second storage location; and sequentially sense the rows of the first storage location, corresponding to the rows for the given bit position in the second storage location containing non-zero values, to determine partial products for the given bit position; one or more accumulators configured to accumulate the determined partial products for the given bit position; and one or more shift registers configured to shift the accumulated values, after sequentially accumulating the determined partial products for the plurality of bit positions over the plurality of rows of the first storage location, as a matrix dot product of the set of multipliers and the set of multiplicands.
2. The device of claim 1, further comprising: an early termination logic configured to determine if a current accumulated partial product satisfies a predetermined criteria after a predetermined number of bit positions of the set of multiplicands in the second storage location have been processed.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the early termination logic is configured to determine if a current accumulated partial product is less than zero.
4. The device of claim 1, further comprising: a buffer configured to conditionally buffer the current accumulated value, after sequentially accumulating the determined partial products for the plurality of bit positions over the plurality of rows of the first storage location, if the current accumulated value satisfies a predetermined criteria.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein: the first storage location comprises a resistive random access memory (RRAM); and the second storage location comprises a set of registers.
6. The device of claim 5, wherein the set of registers store respective ones of the set of multiplicands.
7. The device of claim 5, wherein the set of register store the given bit location of respective ones the set of multiplicands.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein: the first storage location comprises a resistive random access memory (RRAM); and the second storage location comprises a static random access memory (SRAM).
9. A device comprising: a first storage location configured to store a set of multipliers; a second storage location configured to store a set of multiplicands; a bit masking logic configured to; sequentially access respective rows of the second storage location to determine if a given bit position of the given row in the second storage location is a non-zero value; and conditionally sequentially accessing rows of the first storage location corresponding to given rows in the second storage location when a given bit position of the given row in the second storage location is a non-zero value; logic AND circuitry configured to conditionally bitwise AND the given bit position of the given row of the second storage location and the given row of the first storage location, when the given bit position of the given row in the second storage location is a non-zero value to generate partial products for the given bit position; one or more accumulators configured to conditionally accumulate the partial products for the given bit position when the bit position of the given row in the second storage location is a non-zero value; one or more shift registers configured to shift the accumulated value in a corresponding direction, wherein the given bit position in the second storage location is sequentially shifted in a predetermined direction.
10. The device of claim 9, further comprising: an early termination logic configured to determine if a current accumulated partial product satisfies a predetermined criteria after a predetermined number of bit positions of the set of multiplicands in the second storage location have been processed.
11. The device of claim 10, wherein the early termination logic is configured to determine if a current accumulated partial product is less than zero.
12. The device of claim 9, further comprising: a buffer configured to conditionally buffer the current accumulated value, after sequentially accumulating the determined partial products for the plurality of bit positions over the plurality of rows of the first storage location, if the current accumulated value satisfies a predetermined criteria.
13. The device of claim 9, wherein: the first storage location comprises a resistive random access memory (RRAM); and the second storage location comprises a set of registers.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein the set of registers store respective ones of the set of multiplicands.
15. The device of claim 13, wherein the set of registers store the given bit location of respective ones the set of multiplicands.
16. The device of claim 9, wherein: the first storage location comprises a resistive random access memory (RRAM); and the second storage location comprises a static random access memory (SRAM).
17. The device of claim 9, further comprising: the first storage location including a first portion configured to store a set of multipliers of a first matrix and a second portion configured to store a set of multipliers of a second matrix; the second storage location including a first portion configured to store a set of multiplicands of a third matrix and a second portion configured to store a set of multiplicands of a fourth matrix; the bit masking logic further configured to sequentially access respective rows of the first and second portions of the second storage location; and logic OR circuitry configured to OR a give bit position of the given accessed row of the first and second portion of the second storage location; the bit masking logic further configured to conditionally sequentially access a corresponding row of the first and second portions of the first storage location when the logic OR of the given bit position of the given accessed row of the first and second portions of the second storage location is a non-zero value; the logic AND circuitry further configured to conditionally bitwise AND the given bit position of the given row of the second storage location and the given row of the first storage location when the logic OR of the given bit position of the given accessed row of the first and second portions of the second storage location is a non-zero value; and the one or more accumulators further configured to conditionally accumulate the partial products for the given bit position when the logic OR of the given bit position of the given accessed row of the first and second portions of the second storage location is a non-zero value.
</claims>
</document>
