<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T17/00,G06T7/00,G06T7/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NOVOCURE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOMZON, ZEEV
SHAMIR, REUVEN R.
VARDI, MOR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69326565
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Evaluating Quality of Segmentation of an Image into Different Types of Tissue for Planning Treatment Using Tumor Treating Fields (TTFields)
</title>

<abstract>
To plan tumor treating fields (TTFields) therapy, a model of a patient's head is often used to determine where to position the transducer arrays during treatment, and the accuracy of this model depends in large part on an accurate segmentation of MRI images. The quality of a segmentation can be improved by presenting the segmentation to a previously-trained machine learning system. The machine learning system generates a quality score for the segmentation. Revisions to the segmentation are accepted, and the machine learning system scores the revised segmentation. The quality scores are used to determine which segmentation provides better results, optionally by running simulations for models that correspond to each segmentation for a plurality of different transducer array layouts.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of estimating a quality of a segmentation of an image, the method comprising: training a machine learning system to estimate quality of a segmentation of an image based on a plurality of reference images and at least one quality score that has been assigned to each of the reference images; presenting a new image and a segmentation of the new image to the machine learning system; receiving, from the machine learning system, at least one first quality score for the segmentation of the new image; and outputting the at least one first quality score for the segmentation of the new image.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning system is trained to estimate the quality of segmentation of an image based on (a) a quality of affine registration, (b) a quality of deformable registration, (c) input image properties, and (d) geometrical properties of segmented tissues.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the quality of deformable registration is determined based on a deformation's field bias, directional variability, and mean per-axis variability.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the input image properties comprise a shortest axis length and a signal to noise ratio of each tissue separately.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the geometrical properties of the segmented tissues comprise a volume of a shape and a number of connected components, each of which is computed per tissue.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning system is trained to estimate the quality of segmentation of the new image based on at least one global quality feature, at least one local quality feature, and a shortest axis length for intra-cranial tissues, and wherein the machine learning system is trained to estimate the quality of segmentation of the new image based on image quality and tissue's shape properties for extra-cranial tissues.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: making an automatic adjustment to the segmentation; presenting the adjusted segmentation to the machine learning system; receiving, from the machine learning system, at least one second quality score for the adjusted segmentation; and outputting an indication when the at least one second quality score indicates an improved quality with respect to the at least one first quality score.
8. A method of improving quality of a segmentation of an image, the method comprising: presenting a new image and a first segmentation of the new image to a machine learning system, wherein the machine learning system has been trained to estimate quality of a segmentation of an image based on a plurality of reference images and at least one quality score that has been assigned to each of the reference images; receiving, from the machine learning system, at least one first quality score for the first segmentation of the new image; outputting the at least one first quality score for the first segmentation of the new image; accepting, from a user, at least one revision to the first segmentation; presenting, to the machine learning system, a second segmentation of the new image, wherein the second segmentation is based on the at least one revision to the first segmentation; receiving, from the machine learning system, at least one second quality score for the second segmentation of the new image; and outputting the at least one second quality score for the second segmentation of the new image.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the at least one first quality score for the first segmentation of the new image consists of a single first quality score for an entirety of the new image, and wherein the at least one second quality score for the second segmentation of the new image consists of a single second quality score for an entirety of the new image.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the at least one first quality score for the first segmentation of the new image comprises a separate first quality score for each of a plurality of regions within the new image, and the at least one second quality score for the second segmentation of the new image comprises a separate second quality score for each of a plurality of regions within the new image.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the at least one first quality score for the first segmentation of the new image comprises a separate first quality score for each of a plurality of tissue types within the new image, and the at least one second quality score for the second segmentation of the new image comprises a separate second quality score for each of a plurality of tissue types within the new image.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the at least one revision to the first segmentation comprise an adjustment that shifts a calculated probability that a given voxel belongs to a particular tissue type.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the at least one revision to the first segmentation comprise an adjustment that, for all voxels in the new image that correspond to tissue, (a) increases a calculated probability that a given voxel belongs to a first tissue type and (b) decreases a calculated probability that a given voxel belongs to a second tissue type.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising (a) calculating how a determined quality of the first segmentation can change an average expected power density in a target region of the new image that corresponds to a tumor by running a finite element simulation using tissue types selected based on the first segmentation, and (b) calculating how a determined quality of the second segmentation can change an average expected power density in the target region of the new image by running a finite element simulation using tissue types selected based on the second segmentation.
15. The method of claim 8, further comprising (a) calculating how a determined quality of the first segmentation can change a lowest reasonably expected power density in a target region of the new image that corresponds to a tumor by running a finite element simulation using tissue types selected based on the first segmentation, and (b) calculating how a determined quality of the second segmentation can change a lowest reasonably expected power density in the target region of the new image by running a finite element simulation using tissue types selected based on the second segmentation.
16. The method of claim 8, further comprising maximizing the lowest reasonably expected power density in the tumor bed.
17. The method of claim 8, further comprising computing a confidence score for at least one candidate layout, wherein the confidence score is indicative of odds that a given layout is the best layout.
18. A method of determining a quality of a segmentation, the method comprising the steps of: measuring the Dice coefficient between a computed head segmentation and a validated head segmentation of a training set; extracting features to account for a deformable registration quality; incorporating a shortest axis length and a signal to noise ratio of each tissue separately as input image quality; and comparing the measured Dice coefficients between the sets to the Dice coefficients' predictions.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the features extracted to account for the deformable registration quality comprise: deformation's field bias, directional variability, and mean per-axis variability.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein a volume of a shape and a number of connected components are used to describe a segmentation shape.
</claims>
</document>
