<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/00,A61B6/03,G01M1/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHANGHAI UNITED IMAGING HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI BING
JIANG, YIFENG
JI, MIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59089131
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR CT BALANCE MEASUREMENT AND ADJUSTMENT
</title>

<abstract>
The present application discloses a method for detecting an abnormity in an optical path or measuring and adjusting of a dynamic balance of a gantry in a CT system, comprising performing, by a gantry controlled by a controller, a test scan along an optical path of the CT system, the optical path being a path along which rays pass from a ray source to a detector. The method further comprises obtaining, by a processor, data relating to the test scan, and based on the data relating to the test scan. The method further comprises determining, by the processor, a status characteristic index of the optical path or an amount of dynamic imbalance of the gantry. The method further comprises analyzing, by the processor, a result of the status characteristic index; determining, by the processor, whether the optical path is abnormal, or determining whether a dynamic balance of the gantry satisfies a requirement based on a result of the analysis of the amount of dynamic imbalance.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: at least one storage device including a set of instructions; and at least one processor configured to communicate with the at least one storage device, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the at least one processor is configured to direct the system to perform operations including: obtaining scanning data obtained from at least two test scans that are performed by a medical device, the medical device including a ray source configured to generate a plurality of rays and a detector configured to detect the plurality of rays; determining, based on a difference of the scanning data, a status characteristic index of an optical path, the optical path being a path along which the plurality of rays pass from the ray source to the detector, the status characteristic index of the optical path including at least one of a status characteristic curved surface of the optical path, a parameter relating to a gravity center of the optical path, or an attenuation coefficient of the optical path; analyzing the status characteristic index; and determining whether an abnormity exists in the medical device based on a result of the analysis of the status characteristic index.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein analyzing the status characteristic index and determining whether an abnormity exists in the medical device based on the result of the analysis of the status characteristic index include: generating a first comparison result by comparing the status characteristic index with a standard characteristic index; and determining whether the optical path is abnormal based on the first comparison result.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein analyzing the status characteristic index and determining whether an abnormity exists in the medical device based on the result of the analysis of the status characteristic index include: determining whether one of a plurality of optical path components in the optical path is abnormal or a path between two of the plurality of optical path components is abnormal, the plurality of optical path components including the ray source, the detector, or a component between the ray source and the detector during the test scan.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein determining whether one of the plurality of optical path components along the optical path is abnormal includes: determining whether the one of the plurality of optical path components is defective; determining whether there is a foreign object in the optical path component; determining whether the optical path component vibrates; or determining whether the optical path component tilts.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein determining whether a path between two of the plurality of optical path components is abnormal includes: determining whether there is a foreign object in the path between the two of the plurality optical path components.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least two test scans include a static scan or a rotating scan.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least two test scans include a single-focal spot scan or a multi-focal spots scan.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein a first scanning condition under which a first test scan of the at least two test scans is perform is different from a second scanning condition under which a second test scan of the at least two test scans is performed, and the first scanning condition includes at least one of: a position of a focal spot of the ray source, energy of the plurality of rays, an object to be scanned, a rotating speed relating to a rotating scan, or a position of the ray source.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least two test scans share at least one scanning condition under which the at least two test scans are performed, the at least one scanning condition includes at least one of: a position of a focal spot of the ray source, energy of the plurality of rays, an object to be scanned, a rotating speed relating to a rotating scan, or a position of the ray source, and the at least one processor is configured to direct the system to perform operations including averaging the scanning data of the at least two test scans.
10. The system of claim 4, wherein the optical path component includes a filter, and the at least one processor is configured to direct the system to perform operations including: determining a status characteristic curved surface of the filter based on the scanning data; generating a second comparison result by comparing the status characteristic curved surface of the filter with a standard characteristic curved surface; and determining whether the filter is defective or has a foreign object based on the second comparison result.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one processor is configured to direct the system to perform operations including: obtaining first scanning data and second scanning data of the scanning data, the second scanning data being obtained in one or more of the at least two test scans where the filter is not located in the optical path; and determining the status characteristic curved surface of the filter based on a difference in the first scanning data and the second scanning data.
12. The system of claim 4, wherein the optical path component includes a filter, and the at least one processor is configured to direct the system to perform operations including: determining a status characteristic curved surface of the filter based on the scanning data; determining a parameter relating to a gravity center of the filter based on the status characteristic curved surface of the filter; comparing the parameter relating to the gravity center of the filter with a standard parameter; and determining whether the filter tilts based on a result of the comparison.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one processor is configured to direct the system to perform operations including: obtaining first scanning data and second scanning data of the scanning data, the second scanning data being obtained in one or more of the at least two test scans where the filter is not located in the optical path; and determining the status characteristic curved surface of the filter based on a difference in the first scanning data and the second scanning data.
14. The system of claim 4, wherein the optical path component includes a detector, and the at least one processor is configured to direct the system to perform operations including: determining a status characteristic curved surface of the detector based on the scanning data; generating a third comparison result by comparing the status characteristic curved surface of the detector with a standard characteristic curved surface; and determining whether the detector is defective or has a foreign object based on the third comparison result.
15. The system of claim 4, wherein the optical path component includes a collimator, the collimator comprising a blade, wherein the at least one processor is configured to direct the system to perform operations including: determining an attenuation coefficient of the collimator based on the scanning data; comparing the attenuation coefficient of the collimator with a standard attenuation coefficient; and determining whether the blade of the collimator tilts based on a result of the comparison.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one processor is configured to direct the system to perform operations including: obtaining first scanning data and second scanning data of the scanning data, the second scanning data being obtained in one or more of the at least two test scans where the collimator is not located in the optical path; and determining the attenuation coefficient of the collimator based on a difference in the first scanning data and the second scanning data.
17. A system comprising: at least one storage device including a set of instructions; and at least one processor configured to communicate with the at least one storage device, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the at least one processor is configured to direct the system to perform operations including: obtaining scanning data obtained from at least two test scans that are performed on an object by a medical device, the medical device including a ray source configured to generate a plurality of rays, a detector configured to detect the plurality of rays, and a gantry configured to support the ray source and the detector; determining, based on the scanning data, projection positions of the object on the detector; determining, based on the projection positions, an amount of dynamic imbalance of the gantry; analyzing the amount of dynamic imbalance; and determining whether an abnormity exists in the medical device based on a result of the analysis of the amount of dynamic imbalance.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the medical device includes a counterweight, the counterweight being positioned on a rotor of the gantry and configured to move along an axial direction of the rotor.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the at least one processor is configured to direct the system to perform operations including: causing a controller to adjust a position of the counterweight based on the amount of dynamic imbalance.
20. A method implemented on a machine including one or more processors and one or more storage devices, comprising: obtaining scanning data obtained from at least two test scans that are performed by a medical device, the medical device including a ray source configured to generate a plurality of rays and a detector configured to detect the plurality of rays; determining, based on a difference of the scanning data, a status characteristic index of an optical path, the optical path being a path along which the plurality of rays pass from the ray source to the detector, the status characteristic index of the optical path including at least one of a status characteristic curved surface of the optical path, a parameter relating to a gravity center of the optical path, or an attenuation coefficient of the optical path; analyzing the status characteristic index; and determining whether an abnormity exists in the medical device based on a result of the analysis of the status characteristic index.
</claims>
</document>
