<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/18,G06K9/00,G06K9/20,G06K9/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOSHIBA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOZAKAYA, TATSUO
MISHIMA, NAO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73746231
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LEARNING METHOD, STORAGE MEDIUM AND IMAGE PROCESSING DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
According to one embodiment, a learning method for causing a second statistical model to learn using a first statistical model is provided. The method includes obtaining a first learning image, cutting out each local area of the obtained first learning image, and obtaining a first prediction value output from the first statistical model by inputting each local area to the first statistical model and obtaining a second prediction value output from the second statistical model by inputting the entire area of the first learning image to the second statistical model, and causing the second statistical model to learn based on a difference between the first prediction value and the second prediction value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A learning method for causing a second statistical model for outputting a prediction value corresponding to an entire area of an image based on input of the entire area of the image to learn using a first statistical model for outputting a prediction value corresponding to a local area of the image based on input of the local area of the image, the method comprising: obtaining a first learning image; cutting out each local area of the obtained first learning image, and obtaining a first prediction value corresponding to each local area output from the first statistical model by inputting each local area to the first statistical model; obtaining a second prediction value corresponding to an entire area of the obtained first learning image output from the second statistical model by inputting the entire area of the first learning image to the second statistical model; and causing the second statistical model to learn based on a difference between the first prediction value and the second prediction value.
2. The learning method of claim 1, wherein the obtaining the first prediction value includes obtaining the first prediction value corresponding to a location of each local area of the obtained first learning image on the first learning image by inputting location information indicating the location of each local area of the first learning image to the first statistical model, and the obtaining the second prediction value includes obtaining the second prediction value corresponding to each location on the obtained first learning image by inputting location information indicating each location on the first learning image to the second statistical model.
3. The learning method of claim 2, further comprising: obtaining a second learning image and a correct value to be output as a prediction value corresponding to each local area of the second learning image; and generating the first statistical model based on the obtained second learning image, the obtained correct value, and location information indicating the location of each local area of the second learning image on the second learning image, wherein the location information indicating each location on the first learning image and the location information indicating each location on the second learning image are defined as a same coordinate system.
4. The learning method of claim 1, wherein a part of the first statistical model is shared with the second statistical model.
5. The learning method of claim 1, wherein the first prediction value includes a distance to a subject included in each local area of the obtained learning image, and the second prediction value includes a distance to a subject included in the entire area of the obtained learning image.
6. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon a computer program which is executable by a computer and causes a second statistical model for outputting a prediction value corresponding to an entire area of an image based on input of the entire area of the image to learn using a first statistical model for outputting a prediction value corresponding to a local area of the image based on input of the local area of the image, the computer program comprising instructions capable of causing the computer to execute functions of: obtaining a first learning image; cutting out each local area of the obtained first learning image, and obtaining a first prediction value corresponding to each local area output from the first statistical model by inputting each local area to the first statistical model; obtaining a second prediction value corresponding to an entire area of the obtained first learning image output from the second statistical model by inputting the entire area of the first learning image to the second statistical model; and causing the second statistical model to learn based on a difference between the first prediction value and the second prediction value.
7. The storage medium of claim 6, wherein the obtaining the first prediction value includes obtaining the first prediction value corresponding to a location of each local area of the obtained first learning image on the first learning image by inputting location information indicating the location of each local area of the first learning image on the first learning image to the first statistical model, and the obtaining the second prediction value includes obtaining the second prediction value corresponding to each location on the obtained first learning image by inputting location information indicating each location on the first learning image to the second statistical model.
8. The storage medium of claim 7, further comprising instructions capable of causing the computer to execute functions of: obtaining a second learning image and a correct value to be output as a prediction value corresponding to each local area of the second learning image; and generating the first statistical model based on the obtained second learning image, the obtained correct value and location information indicating a location of each local area of the second learning image on the second learning image, wherein the location information indicating each location on the first learning image and the location information indicating each location on the second learning image are defined as a same coordinate system.
9. The storage medium of claim 6, wherein a part of the first statistical model is shared with the second statistical model.
10. The storage medium of claim 6, wherein the first prediction value includes a distance to a subject included in each local area of the obtained learning image, and the second prediction value includes a distance to a subject included in the entire area of the obtained learning image.
11. An image processing device for causing a second statistical model for outputting a prediction value corresponding to an entire area of an image based on input of the entire area of the image to learn using a first statistical model for outputting a prediction value corresponding to a local area of the image based on input of the local area of the image, the device comprising: a hardware processor is configured to: obtain a first learning image; cut out each local area of the obtained first learning image and obtains a first prediction value corresponding to each local area output from the first statistical model by inputting each local area to the first statistical model; obtain a second prediction value corresponding to an entire area of the obtained first learning image output from the second statistical model by inputting the entire area of the first learning image to the second statistical model; and cause the second statistical model to learn based on a difference between the first prediction value and the second prediction value.
12. The image processing device of claim 11, wherein the hardware processor is configured to: obtain a first prediction value corresponding to a location of each local area of the obtained first learning image on the first learning image by inputting location information indicating the location of each local area of the first learning image on the first learning image to the first statistical model, and obtain a second prediction value corresponding to each location on the obtained first learning image by inputting location information indicating each location on the first learning image to the second statistical model.
13. The image processing device of claim 12, wherein the hardware processor is configured to: obtain a second learning image, and a correct value to be output as a prediction value corresponding to each local area of the second learning image; and generate the first statistical model based on the obtained second learning image, the obtained correct value, and location information indicating a location of each local area of the second learning image on the second learning image, and the location information indicating each location on the first learning image and the location information indicating each location on the second learning image are defined as a same coordinate system.
14. The image processing device of claim 11, wherein a part of the first statistical model is shared with the second statistical model.
15. The image processing device of claim 11, wherein the first prediction value includes a distance to a subject included in each local area of the obtained learning image, and the second prediction value includes a distance to a subject included in the entire area of the obtained learning image.
</claims>
</document>
