<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/14,B60W30/16,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G08G1/00,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CUMMINS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SUJAN, VIVEK, ANAND
Chadha, Parul
Archit, Koti N.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73651494
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VEHICLE PLATOON CONTROLS PROVIDING IMPROVED FUEL EFFICIENCY AND VEHICLE COLLISION MITIGATION
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic control system is configured to control operation of a platoon including a plurality of vehicles. The electronic control system may be configured one or more of operate each of the vehicles to provide operation emulating the lowest non-platooning vehicle performance capability among the plurality of vehicles of the platoon, operate an individualized predictive cruise control (IPCC) process for each of the vehicles and a corresponding supervisory safety process for the platoon, and operate a cooperative predictive cruise control (CPCC) process for each of the vehicles and a corresponding supervisory safety process for the platoon.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for controlling operation of a platoon including a plurality of vehicles, the system comprising an electronic control system configured to: determine a non-platooning vehicle performance capability for each of the plurality of vehicles; determine powertrain limits for each of the plurality of vehicles to emulate a lowest non-platooning vehicle performance capability among the plurality of vehicles of the platoon; and operate each of the plurality of vehicles subject to its respective powertrain limit to provide operation of each of the vehicles of the platoon emulating the lowest non-platooning vehicle performance capability among the plurality of vehicles of the platoon.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the electronic control system is configured to: determine vehicle mass values for each of the plurality of vehicles; determine nominal aerodynamic loading values for each of the plurality of vehicles; and determine the non-platooning vehicle performance for each of the plurality of vehicles using the vehicle mass and the nominal aerodynamic loading values for each of the plurality of vehicles.
3. The system of claim 2 wherein the electronic control system is configured to: determine in-platoon vehicle separation values for each of the plurality of vehicles; determine in-platoon aerodynamic loading values for each of the plurality of vehicles; and determine powertrain limits for each of the plurality of vehicles to emulate the lowest non-platooning vehicle performance capability among the plurality of vehicles of the platoon using the in-platoon aerodynamic loading values for each of the plurality of vehicles.
4. The system of claim 3 wherein the electronic control system comprises a plurality of control units provided on respective ones of each of the plurality of vehicles, each of the plurality of control units being configured to perform on-vehicle determinations for its respective vehicle including being configured to determine a respective vehicle mass value for its respective vehicle, to determine a respective nominal aerodynamic loading value its respective vehicle, and to determine a respective in-platoon vehicle separation value for its respective vehicle.
5. The system of claim 4 wherein each of the plurality of control units being configured to perform the on-vehicle determinations independently and without input from any other of the plurality of control units.
6. The system of claim 5 wherein the on-vehicle determinations include of the plurality of control units being configured to determine a respective in-platoon aerodynamic loading value for its respective vehicle, and determine a respective non-platooning vehicle performance for its respective vehicle.
7. The system of claim 4 wherein the electronic control system includes a controller in operative communication with each of the plurality of control units, the controller being configured to determine a respective powertrain limit for each of the plurality of vehicles to emulate the lowest non-platooning vehicle performance capability among the plurality of vehicles of the platoon in response to the on-vehicle determinations of each of the plurality of control units.
8. The system of claim 7 wherein the controller is implemented in a selected one of the plurality of control units.
9. The system of claim 8 wherein the plurality of control units are configured to select one of the plurality of control units as the selected one of the plurality of control units.
10. A system comprising: an electronic control system configured to control operation of a platoon including a plurality of vehicles by: operating an individualized predictive cruise control (IPCC) process for each of the plurality of vehicles, each IPCC process being configured to vary a respective IPCC set point in response to variation in vehicle aerodynamic drag, and to vary the respective IPCC set point independently from one another and without communicating information between one another; and operating a supervisory safety process for the platoon, the supervisory safety process including: monitoring a separation distance between a forward vehicle and a rearward vehicle, outputting a following vehicle override command to override operation of the IPCC process of the rearward vehicle in response to the monitored separation distance meeting an override threshold criterion, and terminating the following vehicle override command to permit operation of the IPCC process of the rearward vehicle to resume in response to the monitored separation distance meeting a resumption threshold criterion.
11. The system of claim 10 wherein the supervisory safety process comprises a plurality of distributed safety processes implemented in a plurality of control units each on-board a respective one of the plurality of vehicles.
12. The system of claim 11 wherein the distributed supervisory safety process is implemented as part of the IPCC process operated for each of the plurality of vehicles.
13. The system of claim 11 wherein each of the plurality of control units is configured to: determine a first minimum separation distance and a first maximum separation distance for its respective vehicle relative to a forward vehicle, determine a second minimum separation distance and a second maximum separation distance for its respective vehicle relative to a forward vehicle, deactivate IPCC operation if an inter-vehicle separation distance is outside the first minimum separation distance and a first maximum separation distance for its respective vehicle, and after deactivating IPCC operation, reactivate IPCC operation if a subsequent inter-vehicle separation distance is within the second minimum separation distance and a second maximum separation distance for its respective vehicle.
14. The system of claim 11 wherein each of the plurality of distributed safety processes operates without using information communicated from another of the plurality of distributed safety processes.
15. The system of claim 10 wherein each of the respective IPCC set points is determined for a future mission segment using look-ahead information.
16. The system of claim 10 wherein each respective IPCC process operates without using information communicated from another IPCC process.
17. The system of claim 10 wherein the IPCC set point is an IPCC vehicle speed set point.
18. A system comprising: an electronic control system configured to control operation of a platoon including a plurality of vehicles by: operating a cooperative predictive cruise control (CPCC) process for the plurality of vehicles, the CPCC process being configured to vary respective CPCC set points in response to variation in vehicle aerodynamic drag; and operating a supervisory safety process for the platoon, the supervisory safety process including: monitoring a separation distance between a forward vehicle and a rearward vehicle, outputting a following vehicle override command to override operation of the CPCC process of the rearward vehicle in response to the monitored separation distance meeting an override threshold criterion, and terminating the following vehicle override command to permit operation of the CPCC process of the rearward vehicle to resume in response to the monitored separation distance meeting a resumption threshold criterion.
19. The system of claim 18 wherein, for each of the plurality of vehicles the CPCC process determines a current inter-vehicle separation distance, obtains route information over a look-ahead window, determines grade parameters for each segment of the look-ahead window, determines optimal vehicle acceleration values for in each step of the look-ahead window based on the grade parameters, and sends a velocity change or acceleration command to a cruise control governor.
20. The system of claim 19 wherein vehicles the CPCC process determines optimal vehicle acceleration values additionally on a trailing vehicle distance and a vehicle velocity.
21. The system of claim 18 wherein the supervisory safety process is implemented as a part of the CPCC process.
22. The system of claim 21 wherein the supervisory safety process is configured to, for each following vehicle of the platoon, determine a first minimum separation distance and a first maximum separation distance for its respective vehicle relative to a forward vehicle, determine a second minimum separation distance and a second maximum separation distance for its respective vehicle relative to a forward vehicle, deactivate IPCC operation if an inter-vehicle separation distance is outside the first minimum separation distance and a first maximum separation distance for its respective vehicle, and after deactivating IPCC operation, reactivate IPCC operation if a subsequent inter-vehicle separation distance is within the second minimum separation distance and a second maximum separation distance for its respective vehicle.
23. The system of claim 18 wherein at least one of the CPCC process and the supervisory safety process are implemented in a control unit remote from and in operative communication with each of the plurality of vehicles.
24. The system of claim 18 wherein the CPCC set points are CPCC vehicle speed set points.
</claims>
</document>
