<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F3/048,G06Q10/06,G06T19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HEWITT, TRUDY L.
FOX, JEREMY R.
GRANT, ROBERT HUNTINGTON
Silverstein, Zachary A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73047437
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VIRTUAL REALITY RISK DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is a method, computer program product, and virtual reality system for applying an individualized risk tolerance threshold to external risks during a virtual reality simulation. A processor may receive event data from one or more devices communicatively coupled to a virtual reality device. The processor may compare the event data to a risk tolerance threshold specifically generated for a first user. In response to the risk tolerance threshold being met, the processor may push a notification to the virtual reality device indicating a potential risk to the first user has been determined.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a processor, event data from one or more devices communicatively coupled to a virtual reality (VR) device; comparing, by the processor, the event data to a risk tolerance threshold specifically generated for a first user; pushing, by the processor and in response to the risk tolerance threshold being met, a notification to the VR device indicating a potential risk to the first user has been detected; receiving, by the processor, crowdsourced risk tolerance data for a plurality of users from a plurality of VR devices, wherein the crowdsourced risk tolerance data is indicative of actions taken by the plurality of users in response to historical event data; correlating, by the processor and using machine learning, the crowdsourced risk tolerance data for the plurality of users with historical risk tolerance data for the first user; and adjusting, by the processor and based on the correlating, the risk tolerance threshold for the first user.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the processor, a set of historical risk tolerance data for the first user, wherein the set of historical risk tolerance data is indicative of actions taken by the first user in response to the historical event data; analyzing, by the processor and using machine learning, the set of historical risk tolerance data; and generating, by the processor and in response to the analyzing of the set of historical risk tolerance data, the risk tolerance threshold for the first user.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein analyzing the set of historical risk tolerance data comprises: identifying, by the processor, the actions taken by the first user in response to the historical event data; and applying, by the processor, weights to the historical event data based on the actions taken by the first user.
4. (canceled)
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more devices include a camera disposed on the VR device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more devices include an IoT device selected from the group consisting of a camera and a sensor.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the event data comprises image data of an object relative to the first user.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein pushing the notification to the VR device is selected from the group consisting of: displaying a text message referring to the potential risk; displaying an image of the potential risk; displaying a live video feed of the potential risk; and providing an audio alert regarding the potential risk.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the notification indicates to the first user that the potential risk has been detected within an action area relative to the first user.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the action area is defined by a distance relative to the first user.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the notification indicates to the first user that the potential risk has been detected outside of an action area relative to the first user.
12. A virtual reality system comprising: a processor; and a computer-readable storage medium communicatively coupled to the processor and storing program instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform a method comprising: receiving event data from one or more devices communicatively coupled to a virtual reality (VR) device; comparing the event data to a risk tolerance threshold specifically generated for a first user; pushing, in response to the risk tolerance threshold being met, a notification to the VR device indicating a potential risk to the first user has been determined; receiving crowdsourced risk tolerance data for a plurality of users from a plurality of VR devices, wherein the crowdsourced risk tolerance data is indicative of actions taken by the plurality of users in response to historical event data; correlating, using machine learning, the crowdsourced risk tolerance data for the plurality of users with historical risk tolerance data for the first user; and adjusting, based on the correlating, the risk tolerance threshold for the first user.
13. The virtual reality system of claim 12, wherein the method performed by the processor further comprises: receiving a set of historical risk tolerance data for the first user, wherein the set of historical risk tolerance data is indicative of actions taken by the first user in response to the historical event data; analyzing, using machine learning, the set of historical risk tolerance data for the first user; and generating, in response to the analyzing of the set of historical risk tolerance data, the risk tolerance threshold for the first user.
14. The virtual reality system of claim 13, wherein analyzing the set of historical risk tolerance data comprises: identifying the actions taken by the first user in response to the historical event data; and applying weights to the historical event data based on the actions taken by the first user.
15. (canceled)
16. The virtual reality system of claim 12, wherein the one or more devices include a camera disposed on the VR device.
17. A computer program product comprising a computer-readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, wherein the computer-readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: receiving event data from one or more devices communicatively coupled to a virtual reality (VR) device; comparing the event data to a risk tolerance threshold specifically generated for a first user; pushing, in response to the risk tolerance threshold being met, a notification to the VR device indicating a potential risk to the first user has been determined receiving crowdsourced risk tolerance data for a plurality of users from a plurality of VR devices, wherein the crowdsourced risk tolerance data is indicative of actions taken by the plurality of users in response to historical event data; correlating, using machine learning, the crowdsourced risk tolerance data for the plurality of users with historical risk tolerance data for the first user; and adjusting, based on the correlating, the risk tolerance threshold for the first user.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the method performed by the processor further comprises: receiving a set of historical risk tolerance data for the first user, wherein the set of historical risk tolerance data is indicative of actions taken by the first user in response to the historical event data; analyzing, using machine learning, the set of historical risk tolerance data for the first user; and generating, in response to the analyzing of the set of historical risk tolerance data, the risk tolerance threshold for the first user.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein analyzing the set of historical risk tolerance data comprises: identifying the actions taken by the first user in response to the historical event data; and applying weights to the historical event data based on the actions taken by the first user.
20. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
