<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/32,G01C21/34,G06F16/955,H04L29/08,H04W4/024
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAPANYTHING
</assignee>

<inventors>
STEWART, JOHN BRIAN
CARNES, TIMOTHY ALAN
GALLEGE, LAHIRU SANDAKITH PILETHTHUWASAN
LOU, CHENLU
GROER, CHRISTOPHER SEBASTIAN
WEERAPURAGE, DINESH PREMALAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71516623
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GEOGRAPHIC ROUTING ENGINE
</title>

<abstract>
A server within an on-demand computing services environment may receive a request to determine a route that involves a set of geographic locations. The server may identify pre-computed path information suitable for responding to the request. A route may be determined based on the identified information, and route information may be transmitted in response to the request.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving a route optimization request message at a server within an on-demand computing services environment, the route optimization request message identifying a first plurality of geographic locations and one or more request parameters associated with a routing request from a client entity; retrieving route optimization information identifying transit information between each of a plurality of pairs of a second plurality of geographic locations within a geographic zone that includes the first plurality of geographic locations; determining one or more weighting parameters for the transit information based on the one or more request parameters; determining a route to traverse the first plurality of geographic locations based on an application of the one or more weighting parameters to the transit information; and transmitting, via a communication interface, a response message identifying the route to a client machine associated with the client entity.
2. The method recited in claim 1, wherein the request parameters include a first parameter penalizing routes in which one or more items are transported for a period of time exceeding a designated threshold.
3. The method recited in claim 1, wherein the request parameters include a second parameter penalizing one or more types of roads.
4. The method recited in claim 1, wherein the request parameters include a third parameter penalizing routes in which a distance between an initial point at which a route begins and a first stopping point on the route exceeds a designated threshold.
5. The method recited in claim 1, wherein the request parameters include a fourth parameter penalizing routes in which a first customer and a second customer are visited by different drivers.
6. The method recited in claim 1, wherein the transit information identifies a first plurality of transit time values, each transit time value identifying a respective transit time between two or more of the second plurality of geographic locations.
7. The method recited in claim 6, wherein determining the route to traverse the first plurality of geographic locations involves determining a second plurality of transit time values by interpolating from two or more of the first plurality of transit time values.
8. The method recited in claim 7, wherein the route optimization information is retrieved from a zone server configured to determine the transit information for the geographic zone based on one or more observed travel time values.
9. The method recited in claim 8, wherein each of the first plurality of transit time values is stored in a shortest path matrix computed by the zone server.
10. The method recited in claim 1, wherein the on-demand computing services environment is configured to provide computing services to a plurality of clients via a network, the plurality of clients including the client entity.
11. A computing device within an on-demand computing services environment, the computing device configured to perform a method, the method comprising: receiving a route optimization request message identifying a first plurality of geographic locations and one or more request parameters associated with a routing request from a client entity; retrieving route optimization information identifying transit information between each of a plurality of pairs of a second plurality of geographic locations within a geographic zone that includes the first plurality of geographic locations; determining one or more weighting parameters for the transit information based on the one or more request parameters; determining a route to traverse the first plurality of geographic locations based on an application of the one or more weighting parameters to the transit information; and transmitting, via a communication interface, a response message identifying the route to a client machine associated with the client entity.
12. The computing device recited in claim 11, wherein the request parameters include a first parameter penalizing routes in which one or more items are transported for a period of time exceeding a designated threshold.
13. The computing device recited in claim 11, wherein the request parameters include a fourth parameter penalizing routes in which a first customer and a second customer are visited by different drivers.
14. The computing device recited in claim 11, wherein the request parameters include a third parameter penalizing routes in which a distance between an initial point at which a route begins and a first stopping point on the route exceeds a designated threshold.
15. The computing device recited in claim 11, wherein the transit information identifies a first plurality of transit time values, each transit time value identifying a respective transit time between two or more of the second plurality of geographic locations.
16. The computing device recited in claim 15, wherein determining the route to traverse the first plurality of geographic locations involves determining a second plurality of transit time values by interpolating from two or more of the first plurality of transit time values.
17. One or more non-transitory machine-readable media configured to perform a method, the method comprising: receiving a route optimization request message at a server within an on-demand computing services environment, the route optimization request message identifying a first plurality of geographic locations and one or more request parameters associated with a routing request from a client entity; retrieving route optimization information identifying transit information between each of a plurality of pairs of a second plurality of geographic locations within a geographic zone that includes the first plurality of geographic locations; determining one or more weighting parameters for the transit information based on the one or more request parameters; determining a route to traverse the first plurality of geographic locations based on an application of the one or more weighting parameters to the transit information; and transmitting, via a communication interface, a response message identifying the route to a client machine associated with the client entity.
18. The one or more non-transitory machine-readable media recited in claim 17, wherein the request parameters include a first parameter penalizing routes in which one or more items are transported for a period of time exceeding a designated threshold.
19. The one or more non-transitory machine-readable media recited in claim 17, wherein the request parameters include a third parameter penalizing routes in which a distance between an initial point at which a route begins and a first stopping point on the route exceeds a designated threshold.
20. The one or more non-transitory machine-readable media recited in claim 17, wherein the transit information identifies a first plurality of transit time values, each transit time value identifying a respective transit time between two or more of the second plurality of geographic locations.
</claims>
</document>
