<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/31,G06F40/20,G06K9/62,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MASS, YOSI
SHNAYDERMAN, ILYA
SLONIM NOAM
VENEZIAN, ELAD
AHARONOV, RANIT
EIN DOR, LIAT
Halfon, Alon
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70281166
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Learning thematic similarity metric from article text units
</title>

<abstract>
A method of estimating a thematic similarity of sentences, comprising receiving a corpus of a plurality of documents describing a plurality of topics where each document comprises a plurality of sentences arranged in a plurality of sections, constructing sentence triplets for at least some of the sentences, each sentence triplet comprising a respective sentence, a respective positive sentence selected randomly from the section comprising the respective sentence and a respective negative sentence selected randomly from another section, training a first neural network with the sentence triplets to identify sentence-sentence vectors mapping each sentence with a shorter distance to its respective positive sentence compared to the distance to its respective negative sentence and outputting the first neural network for estimating thematic similarity between a pair of sentences by computing a distance between the sentence-sentence vectors produced for each sentence of the pair by the first neural network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method of estimating a thematic similarity of sentences by learning thematic similarity metrics using triplet neural networks, comprising: using at least one processor for: receiving a corpus comprising a plurality of documents describing a plurality of topics, each of the plurality of documents comprising a plurality of sentences arranged in a plurality of sections; constructing a plurality of sentence triplets for at least some of the plurality of sentences of at least some of the plurality of documents, each of the plurality of sentence triplets comprising a respective one of the at least some sentences, a respective positive sentence selected randomly from the section comprising the respective sentence and a respective negative sentence selected randomly from another section of the plurality of sections of the plurality of documents; training a first neural network with the plurality of sentence triplets to identify sentence-sentence vectors mapping each respective sentence with a shorter distance to the respective positive sentence compared to the distance between the respective sentence and the respective negative sentence; and outputting the first neural network for estimating a thematic similarity between a pair of sentences by computing a distance between the sentence-sentence vector produced for each sentence of the pair by the first neural network.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of sections comprises a plurality of sentence relating to a common theme.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of sentence triplets is annotated with a label indicating the positive sentence of the respective sentence triplet and the negative sentence of the respective sentence triplet.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising discarding at least one of the plurality of documents in case the at least one document includes less than a predefined number of sections.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising discarding at least one of the plurality sections of at least one of the plurality of documents in case the at least one section includes less than a predefined number of sentences.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising discarding at least one of the plurality of sections of at least one of the plurality of documents in case the at least one section comprises at least one reference, the at least one reference is made to a member of a group consisting of: another one of the plurality of sections included in a respective one of the plurality of documents comprising the at least one section, one of the plurality of documents other than a document comprising the at least one section and at least one section of one of the plurality of documents other than the document comprising the at least one section.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising discarding a first section of at least one of the plurality of documents.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising discarding a last section of at least one of the plurality of documents.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising discarding at least one sentence included in at least one of the plurality of sections in at least one of the plurality of documents in case the at least one sentence includes less than a predefined number of tokens.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising discarding at least one sentence included in at least one of the plurality of sections in at least one of the plurality of documents in case the at least one sentence includes more than a predefined number of tokens.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting at least one of the respective positive sentence and the respective negative sentence of at least one of the plurality of sentence triplets from only a predefined number of opening sentences located at a beginning of at least one paragraph of the respective section and of the other section respectively.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting the respective positive sentence of at least one of the plurality of sentence triplets from a paragraph located in the section comprising the respective sentence within a predefined number of paragraphs from the paragraph comprising the respective sentence.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising randomly selecting the respective negative sentence of at least one of the plurality of sentence triplets from another section of the same document comprising the respective sentence.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising randomly selecting the respective negative sentence of at least one of the plurality of sentence triplets from an adjacent section of the plurality of sections of the same document comprising the respective sentence, the adjacent section is adjacent to the section comprising the respective sentence.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising training a second neural network with a plurality of title triplets by: constructing a plurality of title triplets for at least some of the plurality of sentences of at least some of the plurality of documents, each of the plurality of title triplets comprising the respective sentence, a respective positive title of the section comprising the respective sentence and a respective negative title of another section selected randomly from of the plurality of sections of the plurality of documents, wherein each of the plurality of titles relates to a theme common to a plurality of sentences of the respective section, training the second neural network with the plurality of title triplets to identify sentence-title vectors mapping each respective sentence with a shorter distance to the respective positive title compared to the distance between the respective sentence and the respective negative title, and outputting the second neural network; wherein the thematic similarity is estimated by computing a distance between concatenated vectors created for each sentence of the pair by concatenating the sentence-sentence vector produced for each sentence of the pair by the first neural network and the sentence-title vector produced for each sentence of the pair by the second neural network.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein each of the plurality of title triplets is annotated with a label indicating the positive title of the respective title triplet and the negative title of the respective title triplet.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising randomly selecting the respective negative title of at least one of the plurality of title triplets from another section of the same document comprising the respective sentence.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising randomly selecting the respective negative title of at least one of the plurality of title triplets from an adjacent section of the plurality of sections of the same document comprising the respective sentence, the adjacent section is adjacent to the section comprising the respective sentence.
19. A system for estimating a thematic similarity of sentences by learning thematic similarity metrics using triplet neural networks, comprising: a program store storing a code; and at least one processor coupled to the program store for executing the stored code, the code comprising: code instructions to receive a corpus comprising a plurality of documents describing a plurality of topics, each of the plurality of documents comprising a plurality of sentences arranged in a plurality of sections; code instructions to construct a plurality of sentence triplets for at least some of the plurality of sentences of at least some of the plurality of documents, each of the plurality of sentence triplets comprising a respective one of the at least some sentences, a respective positive sentence selected randomly from a section comprising the respective sentence and a respective negative sentence selected randomly from the plurality of sections of the plurality of documents; code instructions to train a first neural network with the plurality of sentence triplets to identify sentence-sentence vectors mapping each respective sentence with a shorter distance to the respective positive sentence compared to the distance between the respective sentence and the respective negative sentence; and code instructions to output the first neural network for estimating a thematic similarity between a pair of sentences by computing a distance between the sentence-sentence vector produced for each sentence of the pair by the first neural network.
20. A computer program product for estimating a thematic similarity of sentences by learning thematic similarity metrics using triplet neural networks, comprising: a non-transitory computer readable storage medium; first program instructions for receiving a corpus comprising a plurality of documents describing a plurality of topics, each of the plurality of documents comprising a plurality of sentences arranged in a plurality of sections; second program instructions for constructing a plurality of sentence triplets for at least some of the plurality of sentences of at least some of the plurality of documents, each of the plurality of sentence triplets comprising a respective one of the at least some sentences, a respective positive sentence selected randomly from a section comprising the respective sentence and a respective negative sentence selected randomly from another section of the plurality of sections of the plurality of documents; third program instructions for training a first neural network with the plurality of sentence triplets to identify sentence-sentence vectors mapping each respective sentence with a shorter distance to the respective positive sentence compared to the distance between the respective sentence and the respective negative sentence; and fourth program instructions for outputting the first neural network for estimating a thematic similarity between a pair of sentences by computing a distance between the sentence-sentence vector produced for each sentence of the pair by the first neural network; wherein the first, second, third and fourth program instructions are executed by at least one processor from the non-transitory computer readable storage medium.
</claims>
</document>
