<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/51,G06F16/55,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOE TECHNOLOGY GROUP COMPANY
BEIJING BOE OPTOELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
YAN, GUIXIN
DONG, ZEHUA
MA, FUQIANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63753799
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE PROCESSING METHOD AND APPARATUS, ELECTRONIC DEVICE, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
An image processing method includes acquiring a set of training images, and extracting a visual feature of each training image in the set of training images. The method includes clustering the visual feature, generating a visual dictionary composed of cluster centers serving as visual words, and adding 1 to the number of the visual dictionaries. The method includes determining whether the number of the visual dictionaries is equal to a predetermined number, and outputting the predetermined number of visual dictionaries generated if the determination result is yes, otherwise determining, from the visual dictionary, a visual word nearest to the visual feature. The method includes calculating a residual between the visual feature and the visual word nearest to the visual feature, determining the residual as the new visual feature, and returning to clustering the visual feature, generating a visual dictionary, and adding 1 to the number of the visual dictionaries.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image processing method comprising: acquiring a set of training images, and extracting a visual feature of each the set of training images; clustering the visual feature, generating visual dictionaries composed of cluster centers serving as visual words, and adding one to a number of the generated visual dictionaries; determining whether the number of the visual dictionaries is equal to a predetermined number, and outputting the predetermined number of visual dictionaries being generated if the determination is yes, otherwise performing; determining, from the visual dictionaries, a visual word nearest to the visual feature; and calculating a residual between the visual feature and the visual word nearest to the visual feature, determining the residual as a new visual feature, and returning to.
2. The image processing method according to claim 1 further comprising: extracting a second visual feature of an image to be retrieved; determining, from the predetermined number of visual dictionaries, a plurality of visual words nearest to the second visual feature of the image to be retrieved, the number of the plurality of visual words being equal to that of the visual dictionaries; and determining an index of the second visual feature of the image to be retrieved based on indexes of the plurality of visual words.
3. The image processing method according to claim 1 further comprising: determining an index of the visual feature of each of the set of training images based on the predetermined number of visual dictionaries; determining a term frequency-inverse document frequency (TF-IDF) weight of the index of the visual feature of each of the set of training images; and generating a bag of words (BoW) vector of the training images based on the TF-IDF weight of the index of the visual feature.
4. The image processing method according to claim 3, wherein determining an index of each visual feature of the training image based on the predetermined number of visual dictionaries further comprises: determining, from the predetermined number of visual dictionaries, a plurality of visual words nearest to the visual feature, the number of the plurality of visual words being equal to that of the visual dictionaries; and determining the index of the visual feature based on indexes of the plurality of visual words.
5. The image processing method according to claim 3 further comprising: extracting a third visual feature of an image to be retrieved; determining a BoW vector of the third visual feature of the image to be retrieved based on the predetermined number of visual dictionaries; determining a similarity between the BoW vector of the image to be retrieved and the BoW vector of the training image; and outputting an image similar to the image to be retrieved based on a magnitude of the similarity determined.
6. The image processing method according to claim 5, wherein determining a BoW vector of the third visual feature of the image to be retrieved based on the predetermined number of visual dictionaries further comprises: determining an index of the third visual feature of the image to be retrieved based on the predetermined number of visual dictionaries; determining a term frequency-inverse document frequency (TF-IDF) weight of the index of the third visual feature of the training image; and generating the BoW vector of the image to be retrieved based on the TF-IDF weight of the index of the third visual feature.
7. The image processing method according to claim 6, wherein determining an index of the third visual feature of the image to be retrieved based on the predetermined number of visual dictionaries further comprises: determining, from the predetermined number of visual dictionaries, a plurality of visual words nearest to the third visual feature of the image to be retrieved, the number of the plurality of visual words being equal to that of the visual dictionaries; and determining an index of the third visual feature of the image to be retrieved based on indexes of the plurality of visual words.
8. The image processing method according to claim 1, wherein each of the visual dictionaries comprises n equal number of visual words.
9. An image processing apparatus, comprising: a first feature extraction unit, configured to acquire a set of training images, and extract a visual feature of each training image in the set of training images; a dictionary generation unit, configured to cluster the visual feature, generate visual dictionaries composed of cluster centers serving as visual words, and add one to a number of the visual dictionaries; a determination output unit, configured to determine whether the number of the visual dictionaries is equal to a predetermined number, and output the predetermined number of visual dictionaries generated if the determination is yes; a first visual word determination unit, configured to determine, from a visual dictionary, a visual word nearest to the visual feature; and a residual calculation unit, configured to calculate a residual between the visual feature and the visual word nearest to the visual feature, determine the residual as the new visual feature, and transmit a new visual feature to the dictionary generation unit to cluster the same.
10. The image processing apparatus according to claim 9 further comprising: a second feature extraction unit, configured to extract a second visual feature of an image to be retrieved; a second visual word determination unit, configured to determine, from the predetermined number of visual dictionaries, a plurality of visual words nearest to the second visual feature of the image to be retrieved, the number of the plurality of visual words being equal to that of the visual dictionaries; and an index determination unit, configured to determine an index of the second visual feature based on indexes of the plurality of visual words.
11. An electronic device, comprising: a processor; and a memory, storing computer-readable instructions thereon, wherein the computer-readable instructions are executable by the processor, whereby the image processing method according to claim 1 is implemented.
12. A computer-readable storage medium, storing a computer program thereon, wherein the computer program is executable by a processor, whereby the image processing method according to claim 1 is implemented.
13. The image processing method according to claim 4 further comprising: extracting a fourth visual feature of an image to be retrieved; determining a BoW vector of the fourth visual feature of the image to be retrieved based on the predetermined number of visual dictionaries; determining a similarity between the BoW vector of the image to be retrieved and the BoW vector of the training image; and outputting an image similar to the image to be retrieved based on a magnitude of the similarity determined.
14. An electronic device, comprising: a processor; and a memory, storing computer-readable instructions thereon, wherein the computer-readable instructions are executable by the processor, whereby the image processing method according to claim 2 is implemented.
15. An electronic device, comprising: a processor; and a memory, storing computer-readable instructions thereon, wherein the computer-readable instructions are executable by the processor, whereby the image processing method according to claim 3 is implemented.
16. An electronic device, comprising: a processor; and a memory, storing computer-readable instructions thereon, wherein the computer-readable instructions are executable by the processor, whereby the image processing method according to claim 4 is implemented.
17. A computer-readable storage medium, storing a computer program thereon, wherein the computer program is executable by a processor, whereby the image processing method according to claim 2 is implemented.
18. A computer-readable storage medium, storing a computer program thereon, wherein the computer program is executable by a processor, whereby the image processing method according to claim 3 is implemented.
19. A computer-readable storage medium, storing a computer program thereon, wherein the computer program is executable by a processor, whereby the image processing method according to claim 4 is implemented.
20. A computer-readable storage medium, storing a computer program thereon, wherein the computer program is executable by a processor, whereby the image processing method according to claim 5 is implemented.
</claims>
</document>
