<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PAYPAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
KULKARNI, SHYAMSUNDAR
MANIAN, Anjana
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74043772
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PARTNER FEE RECOMMENDATION SERVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems are provided to determine a partner fee recommendation. Such a partner fee may be a flat fee, percentage-based fee, or both, that a marketplace provider charges for sellers to use their platform. The partner fee recommendation may be calculated based on a plurality of factors. The partner fee recommendation may be based on data from a plurality of marketplaces. At least a portion of such data may be collected by a payment service provider or other service provider that provides services at multiple levels of transactions and through a plurality of marketplace platforms.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a non-transitory memory; and one or more hardware processors coupled to the non-transitory memory and configured to read instructions from the non-transitory memory to cause the system to perform operations comprising: obtaining payment transaction data associated with a plurality of payment transactions, wherein the plurality of payment transactions are associated with a plurality of merchants associated with a plurality of marketplace providers; classifying, with a first machine learning model, each of the plurality of payment transactions as either a purchase transaction or a partner fee transaction; associating each of the partner fee transactions with one of the plurality of purchase transactions to create partner fee data; obtaining onboarding data, offerings data, and sales data associated with the plurality of marketplace providers; obtaining data about a first marketplace provider; determining, with a second machine learning model, a partner fee recommendation for the first marketplace provider based on the data about the first marketplace provider and one or more of the partner fee data, the onboarding data, the offerings data, and the sales data; and providing the partner fee recommendation to the first marketplace provider.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: linking each of the partner fee transactions with the associated purchase transaction.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: determining, based on the sales data, a marketplace cost associated with completion of sales for the payment transactions, wherein the determining the partner fee recommendation is further based on the marketplace cost.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving first merchant data associated with a first merchant unassociated with the first marketplace provider, wherein the first merchant data comprises data directed to selling costs of the first merchant, and wherein the partner fee recommendation is determined based further on the first merchant data and is a fee recommendation for the first marketplace provider to provide services to the first merchant.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first machine learning model is operated through a first Application Programming Interface (API) based program associated, and wherein the second machine learning model is operated through a second API based program.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the onboarding data comprises a revenue model and the determining the partner fee recommendation comprises determining a partner fee level that is forecasted to attract a number of merchants to the first marketplace provider to conform with the revenue model.
7. A method comprising: obtaining payment transaction data associated with a plurality of payment transactions, wherein the plurality of payment transactions are associated with a plurality of merchants associated with a plurality of marketplace providers; obtaining one or more root words, each root word associated with a purchase transaction category or a partner fee transaction category; associating each payment transaction with at least one of the root words; determining whether each of the payment transactions is a purchase transaction category or a partner fee transaction category based on the associated root words; sorting the payment transactions into the purchase transaction category or a partner fee transaction category based on the determining; and determining a recommended partner fee based at least in part on the sorted payment transactions.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: classifying a first portion of the plurality of payment transactions into the purchase transaction category or the partner fee transaction category.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: associating a plurality of transaction parameters with the root words, wherein each of the transaction parameters is associated with at least one of the root words; and associating each of the first portion of the payment transactions with at least one of the transactions parameters.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: training a deep neural network machine learning model based on the first portion of the payment transactions where each payment transaction is associated with at least one of the transactions parameters.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the sorting the payment transactions comprises sorting a second portion of the payment transactions based on the training the deep neural network machine learning model.
12. The method of claim 7, further comprising: associating each of the payment transactions sorted as the purchase transaction category with one of the payment transactions sorted as the partner fee transaction category.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising executing a K-Nearest-Neighbor technique, wherein the payment transactions sorted as the purchase transaction category are a training set, and wherein the payment transaction sorted as the partner fee transaction category are test data.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: training a deep neural network machine learning model based on the associating each of the payment transactions.
15. The method of claim 7, wherein the determining the recommend partner fee comprises: outputting, to an associated device, the sorted payment transactions as a data set configured to enable the associated device to determine the recommended partner fee; and receiving the recommended partner fee from the associated device.
16. A non-transitory machine-readable medium having stored thereon machine-readable instructions executable to cause a machine to perform operations comprising: obtaining data about a first marketplace provider; accessing payment transaction data associated with a plurality of payment transactions, wherein the plurality of payment transactions are conducted with a first merchant across a plurality of different marketplace providers; determining a partner fee transaction portion of each of the plurality of payment transactions; accessing sales data associated with the first merchant for each of the plurality of marketplace providers, wherein the sales data comprises a plurality of sales amounts, each sales amount associated with one of the plurality of different marketplace providers; determining a partner fee recommendation for the first marketplace provider to charge the first merchant based on the data about the first marketplace provider, the partner fee transaction portion of each of the plurality of payment transactions, and the sales data associated with the first merchant; and providing the partner fee recommendation to a first marketplace provider.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the payment transaction data originates from the plurality of marketplace providers.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: obtaining platform data; and determining, based on the platform data, a marketplace cost to the first marketplace provider for transactions associated with the first merchant, wherein the determining the partner fee recommendation is further based on the marketplace cost.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the obtaining the platform data comprises determining the platform data from the payment transaction data.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the partner fee recommendation is different from a current partner fee the marketplace provider is using.
</claims>
</document>
