<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9537,G06F21/62,H04W12/02,H04W4/021,H04W4/44
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HERE GLOBAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEAUREPAIRE, JEROME
HURRELMANN-WIEDING, WIEBKE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68581643
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and apparatus for presenting privacy-respectful and personalized location-based comments based on passenger context and vehicle proximity to the location
</title>

<abstract>
An approach is provided for presenting privacy-respectful and personalized location-based comments based on passenger context and vehicle proximity to the location. The approach involves identifying a user, a location, and/or a context of a vehicle. The approach also involves determining a privacy level set by the user and/or associated with the context. The approach further involves generating a personalized comment related to the location based on the privacy level, wherein the personalized comment includes privacy-sensitive data associated with the user. The approach further involves triggering a presentation of the personalized comment in a user interface of the vehicle and/or a device based on a proximity of the vehicle to the location.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: identifying a user of a vehicle, a location of the vehicle, a context of the vehicle, or a combination thereof; determining a privacy level set by the user associated with the context of the vehicle; generating a personalized comment specifying one or more activities of the user, of one or more contacts of the user, of one or more entities that are followed, bookmarked, forwarded, liked, or posted by the user online, or a combination thereof occurred at the location based on the privacy level, wherein the personalized comment includes privacy-sensitive data associated with the user; and triggering a presentation of the personalized comment in a user interface of the vehicle, a device inside the vehicle, or a combination thereof based on a proximity of the vehicle to the location.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: querying a database for the privacy-sensitive data based on the location of the vehicle and the privacy level, wherein the personalized comment further specifies one or more prompts for the user to access addition information associated with the one or more activities, the one or more contacts, the one or more entities, or a combination thereof.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the database includes a plurality of personalized privacy-sensitive spatial data records associated with the user, the one or more contacts of the user, the one or more entities, or a combination thereof, and wherein the plurality of personalized privacy-sensitive spatial data records is classified according to a plurality of predetermined privacy levels, and wherein the personalized comment further specifies at least one identification of the user, at least one identification of the one or more contacts, at least one identification of the one or more entities, timing of the one or more activities, or a combination thereof.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: parsing a plurality of location-tagged data records from one or more online data sources, one or more offline data sources, or a combination thereof associated with the user to generate the personalized privacy-sensitive spatial data records, wherein the personalized comment further specifies one or more prompts for the user to communicate with the one or more contacts, the one or more entities, or a combination thereof.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: establishing at least one communication link to the one or more contacts, the one or more entities, or a combination thereof, in response to a user selection of the one or more prompts to communicate, wherein the one or more online data sources, the one or more offline data sources, or a combination thereof include a family tree, a photo library, a history of online and offline purchases, a history of consumed media, a contact history, medical data, or a combination thereof associated with the user.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the context of the vehicle includes a detected presence of another passenger in the vehicle, and wherein the determining of the privacy level is further based on the detected presence of the another passenger.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein context of the user includes a user familiarity with the location determined based on a number of detected visits by the user to the location, and wherein the privacy level, the personalized comment, or a combination thereof is based on user familiarity with another passenger in the vehicle.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the triggering of the presentation of the personalized comment is based on comparing the personalized comment to a database of previously presented comments.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the comparing of the personalized comment includes determining a time at which a matching previously presented comment was presented to the user, and wherein the presentation of the personalized comment is triggered based on determining that the time is not within a designated most recent time period.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting via a sensor or receiving an input specifying data indicating a reaction of the user to the presentation of the personalized comment; and modifying a subsequent personalized comment based on the data indicating the reaction.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: analyzing the data indicating the reaction to determine a user relevancy factor, a user interest factor, or a combination thereof, wherein the modifying of the subsequent personalized comment is further based on the user relevancy factor, the user interest factor, or a combination thereof.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the data indicating the reaction includes user survey data, feedback data extracted from user-generated content data, gaze-tracking data, heartrate data, perspiration data, eye movement data, body movement data, or a combination thereof, wherein the one or more entities are followed by the user on social media, and wherein the presentation of the personalized comment triggering by an apparatus without user intervention.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the privacy-sensitive data include a physical attribute, a physiological attribute, a mental attribute, an economic attribute, a cultural attribute, a social identity attribute, or a combination thereof of the user, of the one or more contacts, of the one or more entities, or a combination thereof.
14. An apparatus comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more programs, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to perform at least the following: identify a user of a vehicle, a location of the vehicle, a context of the vehicle, or a combination thereof; determine a privacy level set by the user associated with the context of the vehicle; generate a personalized comment specifying one or more activities of the user, of one or more contacts of the user, of one or more entities that are followed, bookmarked, forwarded, liked, or posted by the user online, or a combination thereof occurred at the location based on the privacy level, wherein the personalized comment includes privacy-sensitive data associated with the user; and trigger a presentation of the personalized comment in a user interface of the vehicle, a device inside the vehicle, or a combination thereof based on a proximity of the vehicle to the location.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: query a database for the privacy-sensitive data based on the location of the vehicle and the privacy level.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the database includes a plurality of personalized privacy-sensitive spatial data records associated with the user, the one or more contacts of the user, the one or more entities, or a combination thereof, and wherein the plurality of personalized privacy-sensitive spatial data records is classified according to a plurality of predetermined privacy levels.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: parse a plurality of location-tagged data records from one or more online data sources, one or more offline data sources, or a combination thereof associated with the user to generate the personalized privacy-sensitive spatial data records.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for generating vulnerable road user data for a geographic database, carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause an apparatus to perform: identifying a user of a vehicle, a location of the vehicle, a context of the vehicle, or a combination thereof; determining a privacy level set by the user associated with the context of the vehicle; generating a personalized comment specifying one or more activities of the user, of one or more contacts of the user, of one or more entities that are followed, bookmarked, forwarded, liked, or posted by the user online, or a combination thereof occurred at the location based on the privacy level, wherein the personalized comment includes privacy-sensitive data associated with the user; and triggering a presentation of the personalized comment in a user interface of the vehicle, a device inside the vehicle, or a combination thereof based on a proximity of the vehicle to the location.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the apparatus is further caused to perform: querying a database for the privacy-sensitive data based on the location of the vehicle and the privacy level.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the database includes a plurality of personalized privacy-sensitive spatial data records associated with the user, the one or more contacts of the user, the one or more entities, or a combination thereof, and wherein the plurality of personalized privacy-sensitive spatial data records is classified according to a plurality of predetermined privacy levels.
</claims>
</document>
