<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B65G1/04,B65G17/00,B65G47/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FULFIL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALMOGY, GILAD
HOSKEN, JOHN
KALUS, JASON
HOHENBERGER, MATTHEW
BECKETT, NATHAN
HOSKEN, DAVID CAMERON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66534930
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR HANDLING AND DISPENSING OF ITEMS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of product handling systems facilitate transfer of individual product items from incoming bulk form into dedicated trays for inspection, sorting, selection, and packaging. Inspection may comprise interrogation of product items within a tray by electromagnetic (e.g., optical, hyperspectral) or other (e.g., physical, acoustic, gas sensing, etc.) techniques. Prior to packaging, product items disposed within the tray may be stored in a moveable carousel responsible for controlling environmental factors such as temperature, humidity, illumination, ambient gases, product-to-product interactions, and/or others. Movement of product items from a carousel's transfer station to an outside staging position may be accomplished using robots and/or conveyor belts. Embodiments may allow rapid, low-cost consumer selection of specific individual product items based upon their accompanying metadata (e.g., source, identifier), in combination with the results of inspection (e.g., visual appearance). Embodiments may receive product items pre-packaged in tray format to expedite inspection, sorting, selection, and packaging.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for automatically dispensing one or more items, comprising: (a) providing a tray and one or more items above said tray, wherein said one or more items rest on a conveyance unit when said conveyance unit or said tray is moved relative to each other; (b) using said conveyance unit to transport said one or more items towards a packaging unit disposed in proximity to said tray; and (c) dispensing at least one item of said one or more items from said conveyance unit into said packaging unit.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein (a) further comprises extending said conveyance unit through at least one slot of said tray to lift said one or more items along a direction away from said tray, such that said conveyance unit supports said one or more items.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein in (a) said conveyance unit extends through said at least one slot in a first direction, and wherein in (b) said conveyance unit transports said one or more items in a second direction that is different from said first direction.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein said first direction is substantially vertical with respect to a plane of said tray.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein said second direction is substantially horizontal with respect to said plane.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said tray comprises a groove, wherein prior to (a) said groove supports said one or more items, and wherein in (b) said one or more items are not in contact with said groove.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein said tray comprises a plurality of grooves comprising said groove, wherein an additional groove of said plurality of grooves is configured to support one or more other items, and wherein said groove and said additional groove are disposed at different locations of said tray.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein in (b) said one or more other items are stationary and supported on said additional groove while said one or more items are transported towards said packaging unit.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein (a) comprises providing one or more other items above said tray, and wherein an additional conveyance unit is used to transport said one or more other items towards said packaging unit.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein said conveyance unit comprises a conveyor comprising one or more rails, and wherein in (b) said one or more items are supported by said one or more rails extending through at least one slot of said tray.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein in (c) said at least one item is dispensed into said packaging unit, in absence of lifting, picking, grabbing, or grasping said at least one item from above said tray.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein in (c) said at least one item is dispensed into said packaging unit under an influence of gravitational force, in absence of manual placement of said at least one item.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to (a), automatically moving said tray or said conveyance unit, such that said tray is disposed adjacent to said conveyance unit.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein said tray or said conveyance unit is automatically moved such that said tray is disposed directly above or aligned with said conveyance unit.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more items comprise one or more food items, and wherein in (c) said at least one item is from said one or more food items.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one item is dispensed into a predetermined location within said packaging unit.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more items are a plurality of items, and wherein prior to (c), a quantity of said plurality of items to be dispensed into said packaging unit is determined.
18. The method of claim 1, further comprising verifying that said at least one item is properly dispensed into said packaging unit.
19. The method of claim 1, further comprising automatically updating an item inventory after said at least one item is dispensed into said packaging unit.
20. The method of claim 1, further comprising automatically updating an availability of at least one location on said tray after said at least one item is dispensed into said packaging unit.
21. The method of claim 1, wherein said conveyance unit (i) moves in a first direction to lift said one or more items away from said tray, and (ii) moves in a second direction to transport said one or more items towards said packaging unit, which second direction is different than said first direction.
22. 22.-30. (canceled)
31. The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more items are a plurality of items, and wherein prior to (c), a sequence of dispensing said plurality of items into said packaging unit is determined.
32. The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more items are a plurality of items, and wherein prior to (c), a plurality of locations in which said plurality of items are to be dispensed into said packaging unit is determined.
33. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one item is dispensed into said packaging unit when said at least one item is dropped from said conveyance unit into said packaging unit.
34. The method of claim 1, wherein (b) comprises tracking a movement of said one or more items as said conveyance unit is transporting said one or more items towards said packaging unit.
35. The method of claim 16, wherein said predetermined location within said packaging unit is determined based at least in part on one or more characteristics of said at least one item.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein said one or more characteristics comprises a type, size, shape, or weight of said at least one item.
37. The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more items are a plurality of items, and wherein in (c), an interior volume of said packaging unit is adjusted to accommodate said plurality of items as said plurality of items are sequentially dispensed into said packaging unit.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein said interior volume of said packaging unit is adjusted by changing one or more dimensions of said packaging unit.
39. The method of claim 37, wherein said packaging unit comprises an extendible material or structure that permits said interior volume of said packaging unit to be adjusted.
</claims>
</document>
