<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B17/02,G06N7/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS
</assignee>

<inventors>
VERMA, AMIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58668736
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR TRANSFERRING DATA FROM A DEVICE TO A DATA MANAGEMENT MEANS, SWITCHING UNIT, DEVICE AND SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Method for transferring data from a device to a data management means, switching unit, device and system The invention relates to a method for transferring data (16) from a device (6) to a data management means (4). In order to reduce the amount of data transferred and according to the method of the invention, using modeling data (26, 42) present in the device (6) a model (30, 44) described by the modeling data (26, 42) is determined. Using the model (30, 44), the data that is actually to be transferred to the data management means (4) is selected from a volume of data (40) provided for transfer. The device (6) transfers the selected data to the data management means (4).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for transferring data from a device in an automation plant to a data manager, the method comprising: determining, using modeling data present in the device, a model that describes the modeling data; selecting, using the model, the data from a volume of data provided for a transfer that is actually to be transferred to the data manager, and transferring, by the device, the selected data to the data manager, wherein the method is carried out by a gateway of the device, wherein the data manager is a cloud, an Internet of Things service, or the cloud and the Internet of Things service, wherein a number of automation devices are connected to the device, wherein data transferred from an automation device of the number of automation devices is operable to control a process running in the plant using a controller, and wherein the device receives the volume of data provided for the transfer, and the volume of data includes all data transferred from the number of automation devices to the device.
2. (canceled)
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the device transfers at least part of the modeling data to the data manager, and the model is determined by the data manager.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the device transfers at least part of the modeling data to the data manager in a first, earlier transfer step, and the model is determined at least based on the transferred modeling data, and wherein in a second transfer step later in time, using the model, the data from the volume of data provided for the transfer that is actually to be transferred to the data manager is selected, and the device transfers the selected data to the data manager.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the modeling data is obtained within the first, earlier transfer step, and the volume of data provided for the transfer is obtained within the second, later transfer step.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein in the first, earlier transfer step, the method further comprises: selecting, using an earlier model, modeling data from modeling data that is to be transferred to the data manager, and transferring, by the device, the selected modeling data to the data manager, wherein determining the model comprises determining the model based on the transferred modeling data.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the determined model is predetermined.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising determining required data for the modeling data not transferred in the first, earlier transfer step based on the determined model when a number of items of the modeling data are not transferred in the first, earlier transfer step, wherein the required data is included for determining the model.
9. The method of claim 4, further comprising determining an updated model using the data transferred in the second transfer step, wherein in a third transfer step, which lies after the second transfer step in time, the method further comprises: selecting the data from the volume of data provided for the transfer that is actually to be transferred to the data manager using the updated model; and transferring, by the device, the data selected in the third transfer step to the data manager.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the volume of data provided for a transfer in the second transfer step forms updated modeling data; and wherein the method further comprises determining an updated model that describes the updated modeling data using the data transferred in the second transfer step.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the model comprises a mathematical function and a tolerance range, wherein function values of the mathematical function lie within the tolerance range, and wherein data that lies within the tolerance range is not selected and is thus not transferred to the data manager.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the model comprises a mathematical function and a tolerance range, wherein function values of the mathematical function lie within the tolerance range, and wherein data that lies outside the tolerance range is selected and is thus transferred to the data manager.
13. A system comprising: a switching unit for transferring data from a device to a data manager, an automation plant comprising a number of automation devices, the switching unit being arranged in the automation plant, wherein the switching unit is configured to: select, using a model that is determined using modeling data present in the device and describes the modeling data, from a volume of data provided for a transfer, data that is actually to be transferred to the data manager; and transfer the selected data to the data manager, wherein the switching unit is connected to the number of automation devices via a data connection, via which the data is provided, wherein the switching unit is a gateway, wherein the data manager is a cloud, an Internet of Things service, or the cloud and the Internet of Things service, wherein data transferred from an automation device of the number of automation devices is configured to control a process running in the automation plant by a controller, and wherein the device is configured to receive the volume of data provided for a transfer, and wherein the volume of data includes all data transferred from the number of automation devices to the device.
14. (canceled)
15. (canceled)
16. A switch unit for a system, the system comprising: the switching unit for transferring data from a device to a data manager; an automation plant comprising a number of automation devices, the switching unit being arranged in the automation plant, wherein the switching unit is configured to: select, using a model that is determined using modeling data present in the device and describes the modeling data, from a volume of data provided for a transfer, data that is actually to be transferred to the data manager; and transfer the selected data to the data manager, wherein the switching unit is connected to the number of automation devices via a data connection, via which the data is provided, wherein the switching unit is a gateway, wherein the data manager is a cloud, an Internet of Things service, or the cloud and the Internet of Things service, wherein data transferred from an automation device of the number of automation devices is configured to control a process running in the automation plant by a controller, and wherein the device is configured to receive the volume of data provided for a transfer, and wherein the volume of data includes all data transferred from the number of automation devices to the device.
</claims>
</document>
