<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C23C16/52,G06N3/08,H01L21/66
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KAIST (KOREA ADVANCED INSTITUTE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY)
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHO, SU-IL
KIM, JUNG-WON
KWAK, HYUN-SU
LEE, CHI-HOON
RYU, SUNG-YOON
YANG, YU-SIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71072674
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
THICKNESS PREDICTION NETWORK LEARNING METHOD, SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE MANUFACTURING METHOD, AND SEMICONDUCTOR MATERIAL DEPOSITION EQUIPMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A thickness prediction network learning method includes measuring spectrums of optical characteristics of a plurality of semiconductor structures each including a substrate and first and second semiconductor material layers alternately stacked thereon to generate sets of spectrum measurement data, measuring thicknesses of the first and second semiconductor material layers to generate sets of thickness data, training a simulation network using the sets of spectrum measurement data and the sets of thickness data, generating sets of spectrum simulation data of spectrums of the optical characteristics of a plurality of virtual semiconductor structures based on thicknesses of first and second virtual semiconductor material layers using the simulation network, each of the first and second virtual semiconductor layers including the same material as the first and second semiconductor material layers, respectively; and training a thickness prediction network by using the sets of spectrum measurement data and the sets of spectrum simulation data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A thickness prediction network learning method, the method comprising: measuring spectrums of optical characteristics of a plurality of semiconductor structures each including a substrate and first and second semiconductor material layers alternately stacked on the substrate to generate sets of spectrum measurement data; measuring thicknesses of the first and second semiconductor material layers to generate sets of thickness measurement data; training a simulation network using the sets of spectrum measurement data and the sets of thickness measurement data; generating sets of spectrum simulation data of spectrums of the optical characteristics of a plurality of virtual semiconductor structures based on thicknesses of first and second virtual semiconductor material layers using the simulation network, each of the first virtual semiconductor layers comprising the same material as the first semiconductor material layers and each of the second virtual semiconductor material layers comprising the same material as the second semiconductor material layers; and training a thickness prediction network using the sets of spectrum measurement data and the sets of spectrum simulation data.
2. The thickness prediction network learning method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the optical characteristics include a reflectance, a polarization reflectance, polarization phase delay, and group delay dispersion (GDD).
3. The thickness prediction network learning method as claimed in claim 1, wherein training the simulation network includes generating sets of model base spectrum data which are sets of spectrum data of the optical characteristics calculated by applying the sets of thickness measurement data and dielectric constants of the first and second semiconductor material layers to a physical model corresponding to a dielectric material multilayer.
4. The thickness prediction network learning method as claimed in claim 3, wherein training the simulation network includes training the simulation network based on a condition where each of the sets of model base spectrum data is an input and each of the sets of spectrum measurement data corresponding thereto is an output.
5. The thickness prediction network learning method as claimed in claim 4, wherein a number of features of the input of the simulation network is equal to a number of features of the output.
6. The thickness prediction network learning method as claimed in claim 4, wherein a wavelength band of each of the sets of model base spectrum data matches a wavelength band of each of the sets of spectrum measurement data.
7. The thickness prediction network learning method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the simulation network includes a generative adversarial network.
8. The thickness prediction network learning method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the sets of spectrum simulation data include spectrum data corresponding to a case where each of the first and second virtual semiconductor material layers has an arbitrary thickness.
9. The thickness prediction network learning method as claimed in claim 1, wherein a wavelength band of each of the sets of spectrum simulation data differs from a wavelength band of each of the sets of spectrum measurement data.
10. The thickness prediction network learning method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the wavelength band of each of the sets of spectrum simulation data is included in the wavelength band of each of the sets of spectrum measurement data.
11. The thickness prediction network learning method as claimed in claim 1, wherein a wavelength band of each of the sets of spectrum simulation data is the same as a wavelength band of each of the sets of spectrum measurement data.
12. A semiconductor device manufacturing method, the method comprising: measuring spectrums of optical characteristics of a plurality of first semiconductor structures each including a first substrate and first and second semiconductor material layers alternately stacked on the first substrate to generate sets of first spectrum measurement data; measuring thicknesses of the first and second semiconductor material layers to generate sets of thickness measurement data; training a simulation network using the sets of first spectrum measurement data and the sets of thickness measurement data; generating sets of spectrum simulation data which are data of spectrums of the optical characteristics of a plurality of virtual semiconductor structures based on thicknesses of first and second virtual semiconductor material layers, by using the simulation network, each of the first virtual semiconductor layers comprising the same material as the first semiconductor material layers and each of the second virtual semiconductor material layers comprising the same material as the second semiconductor material layers,; training a thickness prediction network using the sets of first spectrum measurement data and the sets of spectrum simulation data; forming a second semiconductor structure including a second substrate and third and fourth semiconductor material layers alternately stacked on the second substrate; measuring spectrums of optical characteristics of the second semiconductor structure to generate a set of second spectrum measurement data; and calculating thicknesses of at least some of the third and fourth semiconductor material layers by inputting the set of second spectrum measurement data to the trained thickness prediction network.
13. The semiconductor device manufacturing method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the optical characteristics include a reflectance, a polarization reflectance, polarization phase delay, and group delay dispersion (GDD).
14. The semiconductor device manufacturing method as claimed in claim 12, wherein training the simulation network includes generating sets of model base spectrum data which are sets of spectrum data of the optical characteristics calculated by applying the sets of thickness measurement data and dielectric constants of the first and second semiconductor material layers to a physical model corresponding to a dielectric material multilayer.
15. The semiconductor device manufacturing method as claimed in claim 14, wherein training the simulation network includes training the simulation network based on a condition where each of the sets of model base spectrum data is an input and each of the sets of spectrum measurement data corresponding thereto is an output.
16. The semiconductor device manufacturing method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the simulation network includes a generative adversarial network.
17. The semiconductor device manufacturing method as claimed in claim 12, wherein training the thickness prediction network includes training the thickness prediction network to predict a sum of thicknesses of some of the first and second semiconductor material layers.
18. The semiconductor device manufacturing method as claimed in claim 17, wherein calculating of the thicknesses of the at least some of the third and fourth semiconductor material layers includes calculating a sum of thicknesses of at least some of the third and fourth semiconductor material layers.
19. A semiconductor material deposition equipment, comprising: a deposition module to form a semiconductor structure including a substrate and first and second semiconductor material layers alternately stacked on the substrate; and an optical measurement module to measure spectrums of optical characteristics of the semiconductor structure, the optical measurement module including at least one of reflectance measurement equipment, an ellipsometer and group delay dispersion (GDD) measurement equipment, wherein the reflectance measurement equipment is configured to measure a spectrum of a reflectance of the semiconductor structure, the ellipsometer is configured to measure spectrums of a polarization reflectance and polarization phase delay of the semiconductor structure; and the group delay dispersion (GDD) measurement equipment is configured to measure a spectrum of GDD of the semiconductor structure.
20. The semiconductor material deposition equipment as claimed in claim 19, further comprising: a thickness measurement module to measure thicknesses of the first and second semiconductor material layers; a simulation network to learn based on sets of spectrum measurement data measured by the optical measurement module and sets of thickness measurement data measured by the thickness prediction module and to generate sets of spectrum simulation data which are sets of artificial data of the optical characteristics determined based on the thicknesses of the first and second semiconductor material layers; and a thickness prediction network to perform learning by using the sets of spectrum measurement data and the sets of spectrum simulation data.
21. 21.-28. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
