<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G07C5/00,H04L12/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
Wasilczyk, Tomasz Pawel
Karshenboym, Yevgeniy Ruvinovich
Randolph, Scott
Paik, Steve
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67138134
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EXTENSIBLE MAPPING FOR VEHICLE SYSTEM BUSES
</title>

<abstract>
In general, techniques are described for extensible mappings for vehicle system busses. A device configured to interact with a vehicle may perform the techniques. The device may comprise a memory that stores an extensible mapping between a local control message and a standard control message. The device may also include a processor configured to execute an operating system to control a system of the vehicle. The operating system may generate the standard control message, where the standard control message includes a first representation of a command set. The processor may translate, based on the extensible mapping, the standard control message to obtain the local control message, the local control message including a second representation of the command set. The processor may transmit, via a control bus coupled to the processor and the system, the local control message to initiate an operational state change of the system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: executing, by one or more processors of a vehicle, an operating system to control one or more systems of the vehicle; obtaining, by the one or more processors, an extensible mapping between a local control message specified in accordance with a control bus protocol and a standard control message supported by the operating system; generate, by the operating system executed by the one or more processors, the standard control message, the standard control message including a first representation of a command set to initiate an operational state change of the one or more systems; translating, by the one or more processors and based on the extensible mapping, the standard control message to obtain the local control message, the local control message including a second representation of the command set; and transmitting, by the one or more processors and via a control bus coupled to the one or more processors and the one or more systems, the local control message to initiate the operational state change of the one or more systems.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the extensible mapping comprises obtaining a file defining the extensible mapping between the local control message and the standard control message.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein translating the standard control message comprises: executing a vehicle hardware abstraction layer to provide a shim between the control bus and the operating system; and translating, by the vehicle hardware abstraction layer and based on the extensible mapping, the standard control message to obtain the local control message.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein translating the standard control message comprises: executing, by a dedicated control bus processor of the one or more processors, a control bus gateway to provide a shim between the control bus and the operating system; and translating, by the control bus gateway and based on the extensible mapping, the standard control message to the local control message.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, via the control bus, a second local control message; translating, based on the extensible mapping, the second local control message to obtain a second standard control message; and updating, based on the second standard control message, one or more operational states of one or more vehicle parameters.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising obtaining an updated extensible mapping that defines a different mapping between the local control message and the standard control message.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more systems of the vehicle include a heating, ventilation, and air conditioning system of the vehicle.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the control bus protocol comprises a controller area network (CAN) protocol.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the local control message includes a local control message formatted in accordance with one of a DBC format or a Kayak CAN definition (KCD) format.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: issuing, to the one or more systems of the vehicle, an exploratory command set to initiate an exploratory operational state change of the one or more systems; responsive to issuing the command set and after the exploratory operational state change, obtaining, from the one or more systems, respective indications of an actual operational state of each of one or more vehicle parameters; determining, for the exploratory command set, one or more dependencies between the actual operational states of the one or more vehicle parameters; and generating, based on the one or more dependencies, the extensible mapping to translate the command set from the local control message to the standard control message.
11. A device configured to interact with a vehicle, the device comprising: a memory configured to store an extensible mapping between a local control message specified in accordance with a control bus protocol and a standard control message supported by an operating system; and one or more processors configured to: execute the operating system to control one or more systems of the vehicle, the operating system configured to generate the standard control message, the standard control message including a first representation of a command set to initiate an operational state change of the one or more systems; translate, based on the extensible mapping, the standard control message to obtain the local control message, the local control message including a second representation of the command set; and transmit, via a control bus coupled to the one or more processors and the one or more systems, the local control message to initiate the operational state change of the one or more systems.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are configured to obtain a file defining the extensible mapping between the local control message and the standard control message.
13. The device of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: execute a vehicle hardware abstraction layer to provide a shim between the control bus and the operating system; and translate, by the vehicle hardware abstraction layer and based on the extensible mapping, the standard control message to obtain the local control message.
14. The device of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: execute, by a dedicated control bus processor of the one or more processors, a control bus gateway to provide a shim between the control bus and the operating system; and translate, by the control bus gateway and based on the extensible mapping, the standard control message to the local control message.
15. The device of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: receive, via the control bus, a second local control message; translate, based on the extensible mapping, the second local control message to obtain a second standard control message; and update, based on the second standard control message, one or more operational states of one or more vehicle parameters.
16. The device of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to obtain an updated extensible mapping that defines a different mapping between the local control message and the standard control message.
17. The device of claim 11, wherein the one or more systems of the vehicle include a heating, ventilation, and air conditioning system of the vehicle.
18. The device of claim 11, wherein the control bus protocol comprises a controller area network (CAN) protocol.
19. The device of claim 11, wherein the local control message includes a local control message formatted in accordance with one of a DBC format or a Kayak CAN definition (KCD) format.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions that, when executed, cause one or more processors of a vehicle head unit to: execute an operating system to control one or more systems of the vehicle; obtain an extensible mapping between a local control message specified in accordance with a control bus protocol and a standard control message supported by the operating system, the operating system configured to generate the standard control message, the standard control message including a first representation of a command set to initiate an operational state change of the one or more systems; translate, based on the extensible mapping, the standard control message to obtain the local control message, the local control message including a second representation of the command set; and transmit, by the one or more processors and via a control bus coupled to the one or more processors and the one or more systems, the local control message to initiate the operational state change of the one or more systems.
</claims>
</document>
