<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-08-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F12/06,G06F12/0813,G06F12/0891,G06F12/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUIM BERNAT, FRANCESC
KUMAR, KARTHIK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73549691
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ADAPTIVE ROUTING FOR POOLED AND TIERED DATA ARCHITECTURES
</title>

<abstract>
Examples described herein relate to a network device apparatus that includes a packet processing circuitry configured to determine if target data associated with a memory access request is stored in a different device than that identified in the memory access request and based on the target data associated with the memory access request identified as stored in a different device than that identified in the memory access request, cause transmission of the memory access request to the different device. In some examples, the memory access request comprises an identifier of a requester of the memory access request and the identifier comprises a Process Address Space identifier (PASID) and wherein the configuration that a redirection operation is permitted to be performed for a memory access request is based at least on the identifier. In some examples, the packet processing circuitry is to: based on configuration of a redirection operation not to be performed for the memory access request, cause transmission of the memory access request to a device identified in the memory access request.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: in a switch: receiving a memory access request from a requester and based on a configuration that a redirection operation is permitted to be performed for the memory access request: determining if target data associated with the memory access request is stored in a different device than that identified in the memory access request and based on the target data associated with the memory access request determined to be stored in a different device than that identified in the memory access request, causing transmission of the memory access request to the different device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the memory access request includes an identifier of the requester and the identifier comprises a Process Address Space identifier (PASID).
3. The method of claim 2, wherein configuration that a redirection operation is permitted to be performed for the memory access request is based at least on the identifier.
4. The method of claim 2, comprising: in the switch: based on a configuration that a redirection operation is not permitted to be performed for the memory access request, causing transmission of the memory access request to a device identified by the memory access request.
5. The method of claim 1, comprising: in the switch: based on a configuration that a redirection operation is permitted to be performed for the memory access request: accessing a directory of cached content in a memory cache tier to determine whether the target data associated with the memory access request is stored in a different device than that identified in the memory access request, wherein the directory is stored in the switch.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the directory of cached content in a memory cache tier comprises at least one entry that indicates whether data associated with an addressable region is stored in the memory cache tier or another memory tier.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the directory of cached content in a memory cache tier comprises at least one entry that indicates which addressable device stores data associated with an addressable region.
8. The method of claim 1, comprising: in the switch: receiving target data from a device in a non-memory cache tier; copying the target data to a device in a memory cache tier; and updating a directory of cached content in the memory cache tier to: (a) identify the target data as stored in a device in the memory cache tier and (b) a destination for any data evicted from a device in the memory cache tier.
9. A non-tangible computer-readable medium comprising instructions stored thereon, that if executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: configure a network device to: based on a configuration that a redirection operation is permitted to be performed for a memory access request: determine if target data associated with the memory access request is stored in a different device than that identified in the memory access request and based on the target data associated with the memory access request identified as stored in a different device than that identified in the memory access request, cause transmission of the memory access request to the different device.
10. The computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the memory access request comprises an identifier of a requester of the memory access request and the identifier comprises a Process Address Space identifier (PASID) and wherein the configuration that a redirection operation is permitted to be performed for a memory access request is based at least on the identifier.
11. The computer-readable medium of claim 9, comprising instructions stored thereon, that if executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: based on a configuration that a redirection operation is not permitted to be performed for a memory access request, cause transmission of the memory access request to a device identified in the memory access request.
12. The computer-readable medium of claim 9, comprising instructions stored thereon, that if executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: based on a configuration that a redirection operation is permitted to be performed for the memory access request: access a directory of cached content in a memory cache tier to determine whether the target data associated with the memory access request is stored in a different device than that identified in the memory access request.
13. The computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the directory of cached content in a memory cache tier comprises at least one entry that indicates whether data associated with an addressable region is stored in a device in the memory cache tier or another memory tier.
14. The computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the directory of cached content in a memory cache tier comprises at least one entry that indicates which addressable device stores data associated with an addressable region.
15. The computer-readable medium of claim 9, comprising instructions stored thereon, that if executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: configure the network device to: copy received target data to a memory cache tier and update a directory of cached content in the memory cache tier to: (a) identify the target data as stored in a device in the memory cache tier and (b) a destination for any data evicted from a device in the memory cache tier.
16. A network device apparatus comprising: packet processing circuitry configured to: based on a configuration that a redirection operation is permitted to be performed for a memory access request: determine if target data associated with a memory access request is stored in a different device than that identified in the memory access request and based on the target data associated with the memory access request identified as stored in a different device than that identified in the memory access request, cause transmission of the memory access request to the different device.
17. The network device apparatus of claim 16, wherein the memory access request comprises an identifier of a requester of the memory access request and the identifier comprises a Process Address Space identifier (PASID) and wherein the configuration that a redirection operation is permitted to be performed for a memory access request is based at least on the identifier.
18. The network device apparatus of claim 16, wherein the packet processing circuitry is to: based on configuration of a redirection operation not to be performed for the memory access request, cause transmission of the memory access request to a device identified in the memory access request.
19. The network device apparatus of claim 16, wherein the packet processing circuitry is to: based on a configuration that a redirection operation is permitted to be performed for the memory access request: access a directory of cached content in a memory cache tier to determine whether the target data associated with the memory access request is stored in a different device than that identified in the memory access request.
20. The network device apparatus of claim 16, comprising one or more of: a switch, router, or network interface card.
</claims>
</document>
