<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BITDEFENDER IPR MANAGEMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
APOSTOAE, ANDREI A.
BOSINCEANU, ELENA A.
DICHIU, DANIEL
DINCU, ANDREEA
NICULAE, STEFAN
STOIAN, SORINA N.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68841135
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems And Methods For Behavioral Threat Detection
</title>

<abstract>
In some embodiments, a behavioral computer security system protects clients and networks against threats such as malicious software and intrusion. A set of client profiles is constructed according to a training corpus of events occurring on clients, wherein each client profile represents a subset of protected machines, and each client profile is indicative of a normal or baseline pattern of using the machines assigned to the client respective profile. A client profile may group together machines having a similar event statistic. Following training, events detected on a client are selectively analyzed against a client profile associated with the respective client, to detect anomalous behavior. In some embodiments, individual events are analyzed in the context of other events, using a multi-dimensional event embedding space.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising at least one hardware processor configured to: in response to receiving a cluster membership indicator indicating a grouping of a plurality of client systems into a plurality of client clusters, select a client cluster from the plurality of client clusters, the selected client cluster comprising multiple client systems; in response to selecting the client cluster, select a training corpus of events from an event collection according to whether the selected events have occurred on members of the selected client cluster; in response to selecting the training corpus of events, train a behavior model to encode a collective behavior of members of the selected client cluster according to the training corpus of events, the behavior model having a set of adjustable parameters; and in response to training the behavior model, transmit a set of values of the adjustable parameters to an anomaly detector configured to determine whether a target event occurring on a target client system is indicative of a computer security threat; wherein: the behavior model is configured to input a selected event of an event sequence and in response, to determine a prediction indicator indicative of a likelihood that another event of the event sequence is of a selected event type; the event sequence comprises a plurality of events of the training corpus, the plurality of events ordered according to a time of occurrence of each event of the plurality of events; and training the behavior model comprises adjusting the set of configurable parameters according to the prediction indicator.
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein training the behavior model comprises: determining a predicted event according to the prediction indicator; comparing the predicted event to the another event of the event sequence; and adjusting the set of configurable parameters according to a result of the comparison.
3. The computer system of claim 1, wherein: the event sequence comprises a central event and an event context, the event context comprising a first subset of the events occurring prior to the central event and a second subset of events occurring later than the central event; the selected event is the central event; and the another event is a member of the event context.
4. The computer system of claim 1, wherein: the event sequence comprises a central event and an event context, the event context comprising a first subset of the events occurring prior to the central event and a second subset of events occurring later than the central event; the selected event is a member of the event context; and the another event is the central event.
5. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the behavior model comprises an event encoder configured to input the selected event and in response, to determine a set of coordinates indicative of a position of the selected event in an event embedding space, the coordinates determined according to whether the selected event occurs in a selected context of other events of the training corpus.
6. The computer system of claim 1, wherein: the event collection is divided into a plurality of event categories according to whether an event of the event collection occurs in a selected context of other events of the event collection; and the plurality of client systems are grouped into clusters according to an event profile of each client system, the event profile determined according to a count of events occurring on the each client system and belonging to a selected category of the plurality of event categories.
7. The computer system of claim 6, wherein the event profile of the each client system comprises a plurality of components, each component determined according to a proportion of events belonging to each event category of the plurality of event categories, the proportion calculated out of a total count of events of the event collection occurring on the each client system.
8. The computer system of claim 6, wherein grouping the plurality of client systems into clusters comprises assigning client systems having similar event profiles to the same client cluster.
9. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the training corpus is selected to include only events that have occurred on members of the selected client cluster.
10. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the selected event comprises a launch of a selected process on a client system of the plurality of client systems.
11. A computer-implemented method comprising: employing at least one hardware processor of a computer system, in response to receiving a cluster membership indicator indicating a grouping of a plurality of client systems into a plurality of client clusters, to select a client cluster from the plurality of client clusters, the selected client cluster comprising multiple client systems; in response to selecting the client cluster, employing at least one hardware processor of the computer system to select a training corpus of events from an event collection according to whether the selected events have occurred on members of the selected client cluster; in response to selecting the training corpus of events, employing at least one hardware processor of the computer system to train a behavior model to encode a collective behavior of members of the selected client cluster according to the training corpus of events, the behavior model having a set of adjustable parameters; and in response to training the behavior model, employing at least one hardware processor of the computer system to transmit a set of values of the adjustable parameters to an anomaly detector configured to determine whether a target event occurring on a target client system is indicative of a computer security threat; wherein: the behavior model is configured to input a selected event of an event sequence and in response, to determine a prediction indicator indicative of a likelihood that another event of the event sequence is of a selected event type; the event sequence comprises a plurality of events of the training corpus, the plurality of events ordered according to a time of occurrence of each event of the plurality of events; and training the behavior model comprises adjusting the set of configurable parameters according to the prediction indicator.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein training the behavior model comprises: determining a predicted event according to the prediction indicator; comparing the predicted event to the another event of the event sequence; and adjusting the set of configurable parameters according to a result of the comparison.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein: the event sequence comprises a central event and an event context, the event context comprising a first subset of the events occurring prior to the central event and a second subset of events occurring later than the central event; the selected event is the central event; and the another event is a member of the event context.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein: the event sequence comprises a central event and an event context, the event context comprising a first subset of the events occurring prior to the central event and a second subset of events occurring later than the central event; the selected event is a member of the event context; and the another event is the central event.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the behavior model comprises an event encoder configured to input the selected event and in response, to determine a set of coordinates indicative of a position of the selected event in an event embedding space, the coordinates determined according to whether the selected event occurs in a selected context of other events of the training corpus.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein: the event collection is divided into a plurality of event categories according to whether an event of the event collection occurs in a selected context of other events of the event collection; and the plurality of client systems are grouped into clusters according to an event profile of each client system, the event profile determined according to a count of events occurring on the each client system and belonging to a selected category of the plurality of event categories.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the event profile of the each client system comprises a plurality of components, each component determined according to a proportion of events belonging to each event category of the plurality of event categories, the proportion calculated out of a total count of events of the event collection occurring on the each client system.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein grouping the plurality of client systems into clusters comprises assigning client systems having similar event profiles to the same client cluster.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein the training corpus is selected to include only events that have occurred on members of the selected client cluster.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein the selected event comprises a launch of a selected process on a client system of the plurality of client systems.
21. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by at leastone hardware processor of a computer system, cause the computer system to: in response to receiving a cluster membership indicator indicating a grouping of a plurality of client systems into a plurality of client clusters, select a client cluster from the plurality of client clusters, the selected client cluster comprising multiple client systems; in response to selecting the client cluster, select a training corpus of events from an event collection according to whether the selected events have occurred on members of the selected client cluster; in response to selecting the training corpus of events, train a behavior model to encode a collective behavior of members of the selected client cluster according to the training corpus of events, the behavior model having a set of adjustable parameters; and in response to training the behavior model, transmit a set of values of the adjustable parameters to an anomaly detector configured to determine whether a target event occurring on a target client system is indicative of a computer security threat; wherein: the behavior model is configured to input a selected event of an event sequence and in response, to determine a prediction indicator indicative of a likelihood that another event of the event sequence is of a selected event type; the event sequence comprises a plurality of events of the training corpus, the plurality of events ordered according to a time of occurrence of each event of the plurality of events; and training the behavior model comprises adjusting the set of configurable parameters according to the prediction indicator.
</claims>
</document>
