<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-01-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q50/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHNEIDER, MICHAEL PATRICK
LEWIS, JUSTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55178361
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTEXTUAL CONNECTION INVITATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for including information in an invitation from a first to connect with a second user that identifies a context regarding how the first user found the second user. A system can include a request component configured to receive, at a first network source, information identifying a second user that a first user has selected to send an invitation to connect with at the first network source, a context component configured to determine a context regarding selection of the second user by the first user, including where the first user found the information identifying the second user, and a generation component configured to generate an invitation that invites the second user to connect with the first user at the first network source. The invitation comprises first user identification information and context information identifying the context regarding the selection of the second user by the first user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, from a first user associated with a first user account, a request to transmit a connection invitation to a second user associated with a second user account; determining contextual information relating to the selection of the second user account by the first user associated with the first user account, wherein the contextual information includes information indicating a portion of a user profile of the second user that was selected by the first user; generating a modified connection invitation based on the contextual information, wherein the modified connection invitation includes an indication of the portion of the user profile of the second user that was selected by the first user; and transmitting the modified connection invitation to the second user account.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the contextual information includes information indicating that the first user and the second user belong to the same group within a social networking service.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the request to transmit the connection invitation is received based on a selection of the second user from a list of suggested users presented to the first user.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the list of suggested users is identified based on users associated with a group of a social networking service.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the portion of the user profile selected by the first user is an image included in the user profile by the second user.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein transmitting the modified connection invitation comprises transmitting a message to the second user account via a messaging application, and wherein the message is transmitted in connection with the portion of the user profile that was selected.
7. A system comprising a hardware processor that is configured to: receive, from a first user associated with a first user account, a request to transmit a connection invitation to a second user associated with a second user account; determine contextual information relating to the selection of the second user account by the first user associated with the first user account, wherein the contextual information includes information indicating a portion of a user profile of the second user that was selected by the first user; generate a modified connection invitation based on the contextual information, wherein the modified connection invitation includes an indication of the portion of the user profile of the second user that was selected by the first user; and transmit the modified connection invitation to the second user account.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the contextual information includes information indicating that the first user and the second user belong to the same group within a social networking service.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the request to transmit the connection invitation is received based on a selection of the second user from a list of suggested users presented to the first user.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the list of suggested users is identified based on users associated with a group of a social networking service.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein the portion of the user profile selected by the first user is an image included in the user profile by the second user.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein transmitting the modified connection invitation comprises transmitting a message to the second user account via a messaging application, and wherein the message is transmitted in connection with the portion of the user profile that was selected.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable medium containing computer executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a method, the method comprising: receiving, from a first user associated with a first user account, a request to transmit a connection invitation to a second user associated with a second user account; determining contextual information relating to the selection of the second user account by the first user associated with the first user account, wherein the contextual information includes information indicating a portion of a user profile of the second user that was selected by the first user; generating a modified connection invitation based on the contextual information, wherein the modified connection invitation includes an indication of the portion of the user profile of the second user that was selected by the first user; and transmitting the modified connection invitation to the second user account.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the contextual information includes information indicating that the first user and the second user belong to the same group within a social networking service.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the request to transmit the connection invitation is received based on a selection of the second user from a list of suggested users presented to the first user.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the list of suggested users is identified based on users associated with a group of a social networking service.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the portion of the user profile selected by the first user is an image included in the user profile by the second user.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein transmitting the modified connection invitation comprises transmitting a message to the second user account via a messaging application, and wherein the message is transmitted in connection with the portion of the user profile that was selected.
</claims>
</document>
