<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L17/04,G10L17/06,H04M3/22,H04M3/42,H04M3/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERINT AMERICAS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SPOHRER, DANIEL THOMAS
Smith, Damian
Roderick, Jeremy Robert
Singer, David Warren
Carman, Brian Patrick
McCurry, Tim
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71575787
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTHENTICATION AND FRAUD DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided to stop both external and internal fraud, ensure correct actions are being followed, and information is available to fraud teams for investigation. The system includes components that can address: 1) behavioral analytics (ANI reputation, IVR behavior, account activity)—this gives a risk assessment event before a call gets to an agent; 2) fraud detection—the ability to identify, in real time, if a caller is part of a fraudster cohort′ and alert the agent and escalate to the fraud team; 3) identity authentication—the ability to identify through natural language if the caller is who they say they are; and 4) two factor authentication—the ability to send a text message to the caller and automatically process the response and create a case in the event of suspected fraud.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for authenticating calls and for preventing fraud comprising: one or more processors; a memory communicably coupled to the one or more processors and storing: an analysis module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: receive a call through a first channel, wherein the call is associated with a customer and a speaker; based on one or more characteristics of the received call, the customer, or the channel, assign a score to the call; determine if the score satisfies a threshold; and if the score does not satisfy the threshold, flag the call as a fraudulent call; a biometrics module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: analyze voice data associated with the call to determine whether the speaker is a fraudulent speaker; and if the speaker is a fraudulent speaker, flag the call as a fraudulent call; and an authentication module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: generate a first code; retrieve a profile associated with the customer; send the first code to the customer through a second channel indicated by the profile associated with the customer; receive a second code through the first channel; determine if the first code matches the second code; and if it is determined that the first code matches the second code, flag the call as an authenticated call.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the analysis module further includes instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: if the score satisfies the threshold, flag the call as an authenticated call.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the biometrics module further includes instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: if the speaker is not a fraudulent speaker, flag the call as an authenticated call.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the authentication module further includes instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: if it is determined that the first code does not match the second code, flag the call as an authenticated call.
5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a fraud module including instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: If the call is flagged as a fraudulent call; receive a recording of the call; process the recording to generate one or more voiceprints for the speaker associated with the call; and store the generated voiceprints.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein analyzing voice data associated with the call to determine whether the speaker is a fraudulent speaker comprises: retrieving voiceprints associated with fraudulent activities; determining if the voice data matches any of the voiceprints associated with fraudulent activities; and if the determined voice data matches any of the voiceprints associated with the fraudulent activities, flag the call as a fraudulent call.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the biometrics module further includes instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: retrieve one or more voiceprints associated with the customer; determine if the voice data matches any of the voiceprints associated with the customer; and if the determined voice data matches any of the voiceprints associated with the customer, flag the call as an authenticated call.
8. A method for authenticating calls and for preventing fraud comprising: receiving a call through a first channel by a computing device, wherein the call is associated with a customer and a speaker; determine if there are one or more voiceprints associated with the customer by the computing device; if it is determined that there are one or more voiceprints associated with the customer: retrieving the one or more voiceprints associated with the customer by the computing device; determining if voice data associated with the call matches any of the one or more voiceprints associated with the customer by the computing device; and if the voice data matches any of the one or more voiceprints associated with the customer, flagging the call as an authenticated call by the computing device.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: if the voice data does not match any of the one or more voiceprints associated with the customer, flagging the call as a fraudulent call.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising: if it is determined that there are no voiceprints associated with the customer: generating a first code; retrieve a profile associated with the customer; sending the first code to the customer through a second channel indicated by the profile associated with the customer; receiving a second code through the first channel; determining if the first code matches the second code; and if it is determined that the first code matches the second code, flagging the call as an authenticated call.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the method is implemented in a call center.
12. A method for authenticating calls and for preventing fraud comprising: receiving a call through a first channel by a computing device, wherein the call is associated with a customer and a speaker; based on one or more characteristics of the received call, the customer, or the channel, assigning a score to the call by the computing device; determining if the score satisfies a threshold by the computing device; and if the score does not satisfy the threshold, flagging the call as a fraudulent call by the computing device.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: if the score satisfies the threshold, flagging the call as an authenticated call.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising: analyzing voice data associated with the call to determine whether the speaker is a fraudulent speaker; if the speaker is a fraudulent speaker, flagging the call as a fraudulent call.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the method is implemented in a call center.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein analyzing voice data associated with the call to determine whether the speaker is a fraudulent speaker comprises: retrieving voiceprints associated with fraudulent activities; determining if the voice data matches any of the voiceprints associated with fraudulent activities; and if the determined voice data matches any of the voiceprints associated with the fraudulent activities, flagging the call as a fraudulent call.
17. The method of claim 12, further comprising: generating a first code; retrieving a profile associated with the customer; sending the first code to the customer through a second channel indicated by the profile associated with the customer; receiving a second code through the first channel; determining if the first code matches the second code; and if it is determined that the first code matches the second code, flagging the call as an authenticated call.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: if it is determined that the first code does not match the second code, flagging the call as a fraudulent call.
19. The method of claim 12, further comprising: if the call is flagged as a fraudulent call: receiving a recording of the call; processing the recording to generate one or more voiceprints for the speaker associated with the call; and storing the generated one or more voiceprints.
20. The method of claim 12, further comprising: retrieving one or more voiceprints associated with the customer; determining if the voice data matches any of the voiceprints associated with the customer; and if the determined voice data matches any of the voiceprints associated with the fraudulent activities, flagging the call as an authenticated call.
</claims>
</document>
