<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64B1/06,B64B1/58,B64B1/66
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ONWARD TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, YEE-CHUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70051600
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ADAPTIVE HARNESS TO STABILIZE AIRSHIPS IN HIGH WINDS AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
An airship dynamic adaptive harness is provided to stabilize airships and particularly a tethered aerostat in high winds and atmospheric changes. A novel adaptive device accommodates the supply of a lift gas and simultaneously controls opposing cables in a tethered harness with a cascade control system that provides an immediate and particularly the dynamic control of roll, yaw and particularly the pitch of the aerostat in response to real time environmental flight conditions and impart stability to the airship in high winds using a stability zone geometric suspension control system and enhance the duration of in flight missions. A lifting gas replenishment system and particularly a ground based lifting gas replenishment system adds long duration deployment to the dynamic adaptability to high wind conditions for long term deployment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An adaptive airship apparatus with an adjustable harness for flight control comprising: (a) a plurality of continuous cables connecting one surface of the airship to another surface of the airship to form a plurality of loops; (b) a weight or mass disposed below a confluence of the plurality of loops; (c) a plurality of winch pulleys disposed intermediate the weight or mass and the plurality of loops; and (d) a motor to operate the plurality of winch pulleys to shift the weight or mass with respect to the center of lift of the airship to control at least one flight axis.
2. The adaptive airship of claim 1 wherein the weight or mass is a tether.
3. The adaptive airship of claim 2 wherein the motor is a differential winch motor with an integrated four stage planetary reduction gear set.
4. The adaptive airship of claim 3 wherein the motor controls the pitch axis.
5. The adaptive airship of claim 3 further comprising a second differential winch motor with an integrated four stage planetary reduction gear set.
6. The adaptive airship of claim 5 further comprising a computer to control the differential winch motor and the second differential winch motor in response to change in a environmental condition.
7. The adaptive airship of claim 5 wherein the winding of the first and second motor in the same direction controls pitch of the airship.
8. The adaptive airship of claim 5 wherein the winding of the first and second motor in different directions controls the yaw of the airship.
9. The adaptive airship of claim 8 further comprising a third differential motor with an integrated four stage planetary reduction gear set connected to a loop between the first and second motor to control roll of the airship.
10. The adaptive airship of claim 5 further comprising a slip ring disposed between the differential wind motor and the tether.
11. The adaptive airship of claim 5 further comprising a lift gas replenishment feed tube.
12. The adaptive airship of claim 11 wherein the lift gas replenishment feed tube extends from a ground station to the airship.
13. The adaptive airship of claim 12 further comprising a lift gas heater disposed in the ground station to heat a replenishment lift gas.
14. The adaptive airship of claim 4 further comprising a passive adaptive device.
15. The adaptive airship of claim 14 wherein the passive adaptive device is a canard.
16. The adaptive airship of claim 15 wherein the canard is disposed between one of the plurality of loops.
17. The adaptive airship of claim 6 wherein the computer provides a cascade loop attitude control.
18. An adaptive aerostat harness device comprising: (a) a first aerostat cable or line having a first end connected to an aerostat and a second end connected to the aerostat or is spliced together with another cable or line connected to the aerostat to form a loop; (b) a second aerostat cable or line connected to the aerostat with a second end connected to the loop; (c) a pulley or winch disposed on said loop or the second aerostat cable or line; (d) a weight or mass disposed below the pulley or winch; and (e) an adaptive device that shifts the weight or mass with respect to the center of lift of the aerostat in at least one flight axis in response to the wind.
19. The adaptive aerostat harness of claim 18 wherein the first loop is perpendicular to the length of the aerostat.
20. The adaptive aerostat harness of claim 19 wherein the adaptive device is a canard.
21. The adaptive aerostat harness of claim 20 wherein the canard is connected to adjacent sides of the loop.
22. The adaptive aerostat harness of claim 18 wherein the loop is parallel to the length of the aerostat.
23. The adaptive aerostat harness of claim 22 wherein the adaptive device is an active adaptive device driven by a motor having a pulley disposed between the loop and the second aerostat cable.
24. The adaptive harness of claim 22 wherein the second aerostat cable or line has the second end connected to the aerostat or is spliced together with another cable or line to form a second loop parallel to the length of the aerostat.
25. The adaptive harness of claim 23 further comprising a second motor with a pulley operatively connected to the second loop.
26. The adaptive harness of claim 25 further comprising a three axis guide for said first loop and said second loop,
27. The adaptive harness of claim 24 wherein the motor is a differential winch motor with a four stage planetary reduction gear set.
28. The adaptive harness of claim 28 further comprising a second motor with a differential winch motor with a four stage planetary reduction gear set operatively connected to the second loop.
29. The adaptive harness of claim 28 wherein when the motor and second motor turn in the same direction the pitch of an aerostat is changed and when the motor and second motor turn in opposite directions the roll of an aerostat is changed.
30. The adaptive harness of claim 28 wherein the motor and the second motor are controlled by a computer.
31. A method of extending the flight duration of an aerostat in response to environmental change comprising: (a) determining the geometric stability zone of an aerostat based on the number and position of the cables; (b) forming at least one pair of looped control cables; (c) providing at least one motor with a winch to operatively engage at least one of the pair of looped control cables; and (d) using a computer to maintain a tether attachment point within the geometric stability zone by operating the at least one motor to move the tether attachment point with respect to the center of buoyancy mass (CBM) or the resultant force center (RFC).
32. The method of claim 31 wherein the step of providing at least one motor includes having two motors with a winch with each motor engaging at least one pair of the at least one pair of looped control cables.
33. The method of claim 31 wherein the computer uses a cascade control system or fuzzy logic.
34. The method of claim 31 further comprising the step of adding a passive adaptive device.
35. The method of claim 34 wherein the passive adaptive device is a canard.
36. The method of claim 31 further comprising the step of providing a lift gas replenishment tube.
37. The method of claim 36 wherein the lift gas replenishment tube extends from the ground to the aerostat.
38. The method of claim 31 wherein the lift gas replenishment tube provides heated replenished lift gas.
39. The method of claim 31 wherein the at least one motor is three motors with the pitch axis yaw axis and roll axis controlled by at least one of the three motors.
40. A tethered aerostat comprising: (a) a first aerostat cable or line having a first end connected to the aerostat and a second end connected to the aerostat or spliced together with another cable or line connected to the aerostat to form a loop; (b) a second aerostat cable or line having a first end connected to the aerostat or spliced together with another cable or line connected to the aerostat to form a second loop; (c) a motor having a winch pulley operatively connected to the loop; (d) a second motor having a winch pulley operatively connected to the second loop; (e) a tether providing a weight or mass disposed below the motor and the second motor; and (f) a computer to control the motor and the second motor to control the pitch axis of the aerostat in response to an environmental condition.
41. The tethered aerostat of claim 40 wherein the first loop and second loop include a loop around the winch pulley of the motor and the second motor.
42. The tethered aerostat of claim 40 wherein the motor and the second motor have an integrated four stage planetary reduction gear set.
43. The tethered aerostat of claim 42 wherein turning the motor and the second motor in the same direction controls pitch and wherein the environmental condition is wind.
44. The tethered aerostat of claim 42 wherein turning the motor and the second motor in the opposite direction controls yaw wherein the environmental condition is a weather front.
45. The tethered aerostat of claim 44 further comprising a third loop having one end connected to the motor and the other end connected to the second motor or having one end connected to the aerostat and the other end connected to the aerostat.
46. The tethered aerostat of claim 45 further comprising a third motor with an integrated four stage planetary reduction gear set operatively connected to the third loop controlled by the computer to control roll of the aerostat.
47. The tethered aerostat of claim 40 further comprising moveable rudder and elevator devices disposed on the tail of the aerostat controlled by the computer.
48. The tethered aerostat of claim 40 further comprising a canard connected to the loop.
49. The tethered aerostat of claim 40 further comprising a lift gas feed tube.
50. The tethered aerostat of claim 49 wherein the gas feed tube is connected to the ground and a heater to heat the lift gas.
</claims>
</document>
