<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/12,G06F1/14,H04J3/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UTSTARCOM TELECOM COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAO, SI-HAI
GAN, XIAO-MAO
TANG, YONG-LIN
ZHOU, GUANG-PU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65958728
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NETWORK APPARATUS AND CLOCK SYNCHRONIZATION METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A network apparatus connected with a first clock source and at least one second clock source is provided. The network apparatus includes a system clock, a slave port connected to the first clock source, at least one passive port connected to the at least one second clock source, and a processor that controls synchronization of the system clock. The processor determines, from the slave port, a first clock offset between the system clock and a clock of the first clock source. The processor determines, from the at least one passive port, at least one second clock offset between the system clock and at least one clock of the at least one second clock source. The processor determines a true clock offset based on the first clock offset and the at least one second clock offset and synchronizes the system clock using the true clock offset.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A network apparatus connected with a first clock source and at least one second clock source, the network apparatus comprising: a system clock; a slave port that is connected to the first clock source; at least one passive port that connects the network apparatus to the at least one second clock source; and a processor that controls synchronization of the system clock, wherein the processor determines, from the slave port, a first clock offset between the system clock and a clock of the first clock source; wherein the processor determines, from the at least one passive port, at least one second clock offset between the system clock and at least one clock of the at least one second clock source; wherein the processor determines a true clock offset based on the first clock offset and the at least one second clock offset; and wherein the processor synchronizes the system clock using the true clock offset.
2. The network apparatus according to claim 1, wherein, to determine the second clock offset, the passive port receives from the second clock source a first message at a first time stamp T1, the first message indicating a second time stamp T2 at which the second clock source sends the first message; after receiving the first message, the passive port sends to the second clock source a second message at a third time stamp T3; after receiving the second message, the second clock source sends to the passive port a third message, the third message indicating a fourth time stamp T4 at which the second clock source receives the second message; and the second clock offset is determined as [(T2−T1)−(T4−T3)]/2.
3. The network apparatus according to claim 1, wherein in response to the processor determining that the first clock offset is reliable based on the at least one second clock offset, the true clock offset is equal to the first clock offset.
4. The network apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the processor calculates an average of the at least one second clock offset; wherein the processor obtains historic data, the historic data comprising: a plurality of historic values of the first clock offset, and a plurality of historic values of the average of the at least one second clock offset; and wherein the processor determines that the first clock offset is reliable when: a difference between the first clock offset and a first expectation of the plurality of historic values of the first clock offset is within a first confidence interval, and a difference between the average and the plurality of historic values of the average is within a second confidence interval.
5. The network apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the average is a weighted average.
6. The network apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the first confidence interval is (−3σ1, 3σ1) and the second confidence interval is (−3σ2, 3σ2), where σ1 is a standard deviation of the plurality of historic values of the first clock offset, and σ2 is a standard deviation of the plurality of historic values of the at least one second clock offset.
7. The network apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the processor processes the first clock offset and the at least one second clock offset using a machine learning model that is trained using a plurality of samples, each of the plurality of samples comprising a sample first clock offset and at least one sample second clock offset; wherein each of the plurality of samples is marked reliable or unreliable according to its sample first clock offset and its at least one sample second clock offset; and wherein the processor determines whether the first clock offset is reliable using the machine learning model.
8. The network apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the true clock offset is a weighted average of the first clock offset and the at least one second clock offset.
9. The network apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the slave port is selected from a plurality of ports using a clock source selection algorithm.
10. A method for synchronizing a system clock of a network apparatus, comprising: determining, from a slave port of the network apparatus that is connected to a first clock source, a first clock offset between the system clock and a clock of the first clock source; determining, from at least one passive port of the network apparatus that connects the network apparatus to at least one second clock source, at least one second clock offset between the system clock and at least one clock of the at least one second clock source; determining a true clock offset based on the first clock offset and the at least one second clock offset; and synchronizing the system clock using the true clock offset.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein determining the second clock offset comprises: receiving, by the passive port and from the second clock source, a first message at a first time stamp T1, the first message indicating a second time stamp T2 at which the second clock source sends the first message; after receiving the first message, sending, by the passive port and to the second clock source, a second message at a third time stamp T3; receiving, by the passive port, a third message, wherein the third message is sent by the second clock source after the second clock source receives the second message, and wherein the third message indicates a fourth time stamp T4 at which the second clock source receives the second message; and calculating the second clock offset as [(T2−T1)−(T4−T3)]/2.
12. The method according to claim 10, wherein in response to the first clock offset being determined to be reliable based on the at least one second clock offset, the true clock offset is equal to the first clock offset.
13. The method according to claim 12, further comprising: calculating an average of the at least one second clock offset; and obtaining historic data, the historic data comprising: a plurality of historic values of the first clock offset, and a plurality of historic values of the average of the at least one second clock offset, wherein the first clock offset is determined to be reliable when: a difference between the first clock offset and a first expectation of the plurality of historic values of the first clock offset is within a first confidence interval, and a difference between the average and the plurality of historic values of the average is within a second confidence interval.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the average is a weighted average.
15. The method according to claim 13, wherein the first confidence interval is (−3σ1, 3σ1) and the second confidence interval is (−3σ2, 3σ2), where σ1 is a standard deviation of the plurality of historic values of the first clock offset, and σ2 is a standard deviation of the plurality of historic values of the at least one second clock offset.
16. The method according to claim 12, further comprising: processing the first clock offset and the at least one second clock offset using a machine learning model that is trained using a plurality of samples, each of the plurality of samples comprising a sample first clock offset and at least one sample second clock offset, wherein each of the plurality of samples is marked reliable or unreliable according to its sample first clock offset and its at least one sample second clock offset; and determining whether the first clock offset is reliable using the machine learning model.
17. The method according to claim 10, wherein the true clock offset is a weighted average of the first clock offset and the at least one second clock offset.
18. The method according to claim 10, wherein the slave port is selected from a plurality of ports using a clock source selection algorithm.
</claims>
</document>
