<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MITSUBISHI ELECTRIC RESEARCH LABORATORIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
JONES, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66998464
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and Method for Detecting Anomalies in Video using a Similarity Function Trained by Machine Learning
</title>

<abstract>
A system for video anomaly detection includes an input interface configured to accept an input video of a scene, and a memory configured to store training video patches of a training video of the scene capturing normal activity in the scene, and store a neural network trained to compare two video patches to declare the compared video patches as similar or dissimilar. The system also includes a processor configured to partition the input video into input video patches, compare, using the neural network, each input video patch with corresponding training video patches retrieved from the memory to determine if each input video is similar to at least one corresponding training video patch, and declare an anomaly when at least one input video patch is dissimilar to all corresponding training video patches.
</abstract>

<claims>
Claimed is:
1. A system for video anomaly detection, comprising: an input interface configured to accept an input video of a scene; a memory configured to store training video patches of a training video of the scene capturing normal activity in the scene, and store a neural network trained to compare two video patches to declare the compared video patches as similar or dissimilar; and a processor configured to partition the input video into input video patches; compare, using the neural network, each input video patch with corresponding training video patches retrieved from the memory to determine if each input video is similar to at least one corresponding training video patch; and declare an anomaly when at least one input video patch is dissimilar to all corresponding training video patches.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein any two training video patches compared with the neural network are dissimilar.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the training video patches and input video patches is a spatio-temporal patch defined in space and time by a spatial dimension defining a region of the spatio-temporal patch in each video frame and a temporal dimension defining a number of video frames forming the spatio-temporal patch, wherein a training video patch and an input video patch of the same region are corresponding to each other.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein each of the training video patches and input video patches are represented by feature vectors extracted from the training video and the input video by a feature extracting neural network.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein each of the training video patches and input video patches are represented by feature vectors extracted from the training video and the input video by the neural network trained to extract the feature vectors from different spatio-temporal patches and compare the extracted feature vectors to declare the video patches of the different spatio-temporal patches as similar or dissimilar.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to execute a control action in response to detecting the anomaly.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor to determine the training video patches is configured to partition the training video into sets of video patches, each video patch is a spatio-temporal patch defined in space and time by a spatial dimension defining a region of the spatio-temporal patch in each video frame and a temporal dimension defining a number of video frames forming the spatio-temporal patch, wherein video patches in a set of the sets of video patches correspond to the same region; compare all video patches in each set with each other to determine similar and dissimilar video patches in each set; and remove video patches from each set of video patches to form the training video patches, such that all remaining video patches are dissimilar to each other and each removed video patch is similar to at least one remaining video patch.
8. A method for video anomaly detection, wherein the method uses a processor coupled with stored instructions implementing the method, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor carry out steps of the method, comprising: accepting an input video of a scene; retrieving from the memory training video patches of a training video of the scene capturing normal activity in the scene; retrieving from the memory a neural network trained to compare two video patches to declare the compared video patches as similar or dissimilar; partitioning the input video into input video patches; comparing, using the neural network, each input video patch with corresponding training video patches retrieved from the memory to determine if each input video is similar to at least one corresponding training video patch; and declaring an anomaly when at least one input video patch is dissimilar to all corresponding training video patches.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein any two training video patches compared with the neural network are dissimilar.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein each of the training video patches and input video patches is a spatio-temporal patch defined in space and time by a spatial dimension defining a region of the spatio-temporal patch in each video frame and a temporal dimension defining a number of video frames forming the spatio-temporal patch, wherein a training video patch and an input video patch of the same region are corresponding to each other.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein each of the training video patches and input video patches are represented by feature vectors extracted from the training video and the input video by a feature extracting neural network.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein each of the training video patches and input video patches are represented by feature vectors extracted from the training video and the input video by the neural network trained to extract the feature vectors from different spatio-temporal patches and compare the extracted feature vectors to declare the video patches of the different spatio-temporal patches as similar or dissimilar.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising: executing a control action in response to detecting the anomaly.
14. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium embodied thereon a program executable by a processor for performing a method, the method comprising: accepting an input video of a scene; retrieving training video patches of a training video of the scene capturing normal activity in the scene; retrieving a neural network trained to compare two video patches to declare the compared video patches as similar or dissimilar; partitioning the input video into input video patches; comparing, using the neural network, each input video patch with corresponding training video patches retrieved from the memory to determine if each input video is similar to at least one corresponding training video patch; and declaring an anomaly when at least one input video patch is dissimilar to all corresponding training video patches.
15. The medium of claim 14, wherein any two training video patches compared with the neural network are dissimilar.
</claims>
</document>
