<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F30/12,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MACHALICA, DAWID TADEUSZ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70776876
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR TRANSFERRING PRODUCT MANUFACTURING INFORMATION (PMI) BETWEEN MODELS
</title>

<abstract>
A system is provided. The system includes a processor for implementing a computer-aided technology (CAx) system, the CAx system including a graphical-user-interface (GUI) configured to present a first computer-aided design (CAD) model, the first CAD model including a first part. The system includes memory storing instructions configured to cause the processor to present the GUI and to display, via the GUI, a first product manufacturing information (PMI), wherein the first PMI is linked to a first feature of the first part included in the first CAD model. The instructions further cause the processor to iterate through a second CAD model to identify a second feature related to the first feature and to copy the PMI to the second feature of the second CAD model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor for implementing a computer-aided technology (CAx) system, the CAx system comprising a graphical-user-interface (GUI) configured to present a first computer-aided design (CAD) model, the first CAD model comprising a first part; memory storing instructions configured to cause the processor to: present the GUI; display, via the GUI, a first product manufacturing information (PMI), wherein the first PMI is linked to a first feature of the first part included in the first CAD model; iterate through a second CAD model to identify a second feature related to the first f feature; and copy the PMI to the second feature of the second CAD model.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions configured to cause the processor to copy the PMI to the second feature comprise instructions that determine if a view found in the first model having the first PMI exists in the second model, and if the view does not exist creating the view in the second model and then copying the PMI.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the first PMI comprises a dimension information, a coating information, a manufacturing information for manufacturing the at least one part, or a combination thereof, and wherein the first feature comprises an edge, a curve, a hole, a face, a line, a second PMI, or a combination thereof.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions are configured to cause the processor to identify the second feature related to the first feature by executing a geometric analysis between the first feature and the second feature.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the geometric analysis comprises comparing a geometry of an edge, a curve, a face, a line, a plane, or a combination thereof, found in the first feature, against second geometry of a second edge, a second curve, a second face, a second line, a second plane, or a combination thereof, found in the second feature.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the geometric analysis comprises executing a machine learning system configured to be trained to detect the second feature based on data points included in the first feature.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the first CAD model is a different model than the second CAD model.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first CAD model is the same model as the second CAD model.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions are configured to cause the processor to: display, via the GUI, a second PMI, wherein the second PMI is linked to a third feature of the first part included in the first CAD model; iterate through the second CAD model to identify a fourth feature related to the third feature; and copy the second PMI to the fourth feature of the second CAD model.
10. A method, comprising: presenting, via a processor, a graphical user interface (GUI); displaying, via the GUI, a first product manufacturing information (PMI), wherein the first PMI is linked to a first feature of a first part included in a first CAD model; iterating through a second CAD model to identify a second feature related to the first feature; and copying the PMI to the second feature of the second CAD model.
11. The method of claim 10, comprising identifying, via the processor, the second feature related to the first feature by executing a geometric analysis between the first feature and the second feature.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the geometric analysis comprises comparing a geometry of an edge, a curve, a face, a line, a plane, or a combination thereof, found in the first feature, against second geometry of a second edge, a second curve, a second face, a second line, a second plane, or a combination thereof, found in the second feature.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the geometric analysis comprises executing a machine learning system configured to be trained to detect the second feature based on data points included in the first feature.
14. The method of claim 10, comprising: displaying, via the GUI, a second PMI, wherein the second PMI is linked to a third feature of the first part included in the first CAD model; iterating through the second CAD model to identify a fourth feature related to the third feature; and copying the second PMI to the fourth feature of the second CAD model.
15. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium, comprising computer-readable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a computer, cause the one or more processors to: present, via a processor, a graphical user interface (GUI); display, via the GUI, a first product manufacturing information (PMI), wherein the first PMI is linked to a first feature of the first part included in a first CAD model; iterate through a second CAD model to identify a second feature related to the first feature; and copy the PMI to the second feature of the second CAD model.
16. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first PMI comprises a tolerance, a dimension information, a coating information, a manufacturing information for manufacturing the at least one part, or a combination thereof.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first feature comprises an edge, a curve, a hole, a face, a line, a second PMI or a combination thereof.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions to identify the second feature related to the first feature comprise instructions to execute a geometric analysis between the first feature and the second feature.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the geometric analysis comprises comparing a geometry of an edge, a curve, a face, a line, a plane, or a combination thereof, found in the first feature, against second geometry of a second edge, a second curve, a second face, a second line, a second plane, or a combination thereof, found in the second feature.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the geometric analysis comprises executing a machine learning system configured to be trained to detect the second feature based on data points included in the first feature.
</claims>
</document>
