<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/14,G06K9/00,H04L12/24,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABALOS, NICHOLAS DYE
GLEASON, PETER W.
SNYDER, IAN MATTHEW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66532674
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for protecting critical data on camera systems from physical attack
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and computer-readable media for protecting critical data on cameras from physical attacks. In some examples, a camera at a particular site monitors data captured by the camera and, based on the data, detects one or more predetermined conditions indicating a threat to the camera. Based on the one or more predetermined conditions indicating the threat to the camera, the camera determines a threshold risk of damage to data stored at the camera. In response to determining the threshold risk of damage to the data stored at the camera, the camera selects, from a plurality of content items in the data stored at the camera, a subset of content items based on respective priorities associated with the plurality of content items, and sends, via a network, the subset of content items to one or more destinations to yield a prioritized backup of the plurality of content items.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: monitoring, by a camera at a particular site, data captured by the camera at the particular site; based on the data captured by the camera, detecting one or more predetermined conditions indicating a threat to the camera; based on the one or more predetermined conditions indicating the threat to the camera, first determining a risk of damage to data stored at the camera; in response to determining the risk of damage exceeds a threshold: second determining whether the threat is (a) an individualized threat to the camera alone, (b) a broader threat to the camera and at least a portion a local network that includes the camera; selecting, based on a result of the determining, one or more destinations for backup which are less vulnerable to the threat; and sending, by the camera via a network, at least a subset of content items stored on the camera to the one or more destinations to yield a backup of the at least a subset of content items; wherein the second determining and selecting ensures that the at least a subset of content items is sent to a backup location which is more protected that what is under the threat.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least a subset of content items comprises video files having a highest priority.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more predetermined conditions comprise at least one of a presence of an object, an obstruction of a field of view of the camera, a tampering event, an activity at the particular site, a fire, a flood, and a physical impact to the camera.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the data captured by the camera comprises at least one of video content, image content, or sensor data, wherein the one or more predetermined conditions comprise the tampering event, and wherein the method further comprises detecting the tampering event based on the at least one of the video content, the image content, or the sensor data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the content items comprise video files captured by the camera, the method further comprising: determining respective priorities of the video files based on at least one of a respective time of capture, a respective content of the video files, a respective event captured in the video files, a respective proximity in time between a respective recording of the video files and an occurrence of a particular event, a respective object captured in one or more of the video files, a respective activity captured in one or more of the video files, and a respective quality of content of the video files.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein priority of the video files is determined by assigning a highest priority to those of the video files having at least one of a time of capture within a threshold period of time, a recorded event, or a recorded motion.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein sending the at least a subset of content items comprises adjusting one or more network parameters to prioritize network transmission of the at least a subset of content items, the one or more network parameters comprising at least one of quality of service parameters, class of service parameters, and bandwidth allocation parameters.
8. A camera system comprising: one or more processors; and at least one computer-readable storage medium having stored therein instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the camera system to perform operations comprising: monitoring, by a camera at a particular site, data captured by the camera at the particular site; based on the data captured by the camera, detecting one or more predetermined conditions indicating a threat to the camera; based on the one or more predetermined conditions indicating the threat to the camera, first determining a risk of damage to data stored at the camera; in response to determining the risk of damage exceeds a threshold: second determining whether the threat is (a) an individualized threat to the camera alone, (b) a broader threat to the camera and at least a portion a local network that includes the camera; selecting, based on a result of the determining, one or more destinations for backup which are less vulnerable to the threat; and sending, by the camera via a network, at least a subset of content items stored on the camera to the one or more destinations to yield a backup of the at least a subset of content items; wherein the second determining and selecting ensures that the at least a subset of content items is sent to a backup location which is more protected that what is under the threat.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least a subset of content items comprises video files having a highest priority.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more predetermined conditions comprise at least one of a presence of an object, an obstruction of a field of view of the camera, a tampering event, an activity at the particular site, a fire, a flood, and a physical impact to the camera.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the data captured by the camera comprises at least one of video content, image content, or sensor data, wherein the one or more predetermined conditions comprise the tampering event, and wherein the operations further comprise detecting the tampering event based on the at least one of the video content, the image content, or the sensor data.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the content items comprise video files captured by the camera, operations further comprising: determining respective priorities of the video files based on at least one of a respective time of capture, a respective content of the video files, a respective event captured in the video files, a respective proximity in time between a respective recording of the video files and an occurrence of a particular event, a respective object captured in one or more of the video files, a respective activity captured in one or more of the video files, and a respective quality of content of the video files.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein priority of the video files is determined by assigning a highest priority to those of the video files having at least one of a time of capture within a threshold period of time, a recorded event, or a recorded motion.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein sending the at least a subset of content items comprises adjusting one or more network parameters to prioritize network transmission of the at least a subset of content items, the one or more network parameters comprising at least one of quality of service parameters, class of service parameters, and bandwidth allocation parameters.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage media comprising instructions stored therein which, when executed by one or more processors, cause a camera system to perform operations comprising: monitoring, by a camera at a particular site, data captured by the camera at the particular site; based on the data captured by the camera, detecting one or more predetermined conditions indicating a threat to the camera; based on the one or more predetermined conditions indicating the threat to the camera, first determining a risk of damage to data stored at the camera; in response to determining the risk of damage exceeds a threshold: second determining whether the threat is (a) an individualized threat to the camera alone, (b) a broader threat to the camera and at least a portion a local network that includes the camera; selecting, based on a result of the determining, one or more destinations for backup which are less vulnerable to the threat; and sending, by the camera via a network, at least a subset of content items stored on the camera to the one or more destinations to yield a backup of the at least a subset of content items; wherein the second determining and selecting ensures that the at least a subset of content items is sent to a backup location which is more protected that what is under the threat.
16. The media of claim 15, wherein the at least a subset of content items comprises video files having a highest priority.
17. The media of claim 15, wherein the one or more predetermined conditions comprise at least one of a presence of an object, an obstruction of a field of view of the camera, a tampering event, an activity at the particular site, a fire, a flood, and a physical impact to the camera.
18. The media of claim 17, wherein the data captured by the camera comprises at least one of video content, image content, or sensor data, wherein the one or more predetermined conditions comprise the tampering event, and wherein the operations further comprise detecting the tampering event based on the at least one of the video content, the image content, or the sensor data.
19. The media of claim 15, wherein the content items comprise video files captured by the camera, the operations further comprising: determining respective priorities of the video files based on at least one of a respective time of capture, a respective content of the video files, a respective event captured in the video files, a respective proximity in time between a respective recording of the video files and an occurrence of a particular event, a respective object captured in one or more of the video files, a respective activity captured in one or more of the video files, and a respective quality of content of the video files.
20. The media of claim 19, wherein priority of the video files is determined by assigning a highest priority to those of the video files having at least one of a time of capture within a threshold period of time, a recorded event, or a recorded motion.
</claims>
</document>
