<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/558,G01N35/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GenPrime
</assignee>

<inventors>
MCLEAN, DARBY DAWN
RUSSELL, MICHAEL ARTHUR
SOMES, JASON, BUCK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73649999
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SUBSTRATE READER AND METHOD OF READING A SUBSTRATE
</title>

<abstract>
A device including a light source, one or more actuators, and an image capturing device. The device is operable to receive a request to capture image data of a sample, determine at least one of an analyte being tested within the sample or a container holding the sample, position the image capturing device relative to the sample based on the analyte being tested or the container holding the sample, illuminate the light source based on the analyte being tested or the container holding the sample, capture the image data, and send the image data to one or more computing devices for image processing.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a housing including a slide that transitions between an open state and a closed state, the slide configured to receive a cartridge having a substrate test strip; a camera; a positioning system operably coupled to the camera; a light source configured to emit light on the substrate test strip; one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform acts comprising: receiving a request to capture an image of the substrate test strip, receiving, via the camera, first image data representing an identifier of the cartridge, determining, based at least in part on the identifier, a type of substrate test strip, positioning, via the positioning system, the camera based at least in part on the type of substrate test strip, illuminating the light source based at least in part on the type of substrate test strip, causing the camera to capture second image data representing at least a portion of the substrate test strip, transmitting the second image data to one or more computing resources for image processing, and receiving, from the one or more computing resources, an indication that image processing has been performed on the second image data.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the light source includes a plurality of light sources arranged around the cartridge.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a light indicator configured to illuminate based, at least in part, on an operational state of the system, wherein the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media store computer-executable instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform further acts comprising: illuminating the light indicator according to a first appearance state based at least in part on receiving the request; and illuminating the light indicator according to a second appearance state based at least in part on the camera capturing the second image data.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a locking assembly configured to unlock and lock the slide, wherein the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media store computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform further acts comprising: locking, via the locking assembly, the slide based at least in part on receiving the request; and unlocking, via the locking assembly, the slide based at least in part on receiving the indication.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media store computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform further acts comprising determining, based at least in part on the identifier, at least one of a type of cartridge holding the substrate test strip or an analyte being tested using the substrate test strip, wherein the positioning the camera is based at least in part on at least one of the type of cartridge or the analyte being tested, and wherein the illuminating the light source is based at least in part on at least one of the type of cartridge or the analyte being tested.
6. A device comprising: one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform acts comprising: receiving a request to capture an image of a substrate test strip; performing, based at least in part on receiving the request, at least one of: positioning an image capturing device relative to the substrate test strip via one or more actuators, or illuminating at least a portion of the substrate test strip via one or more light sources; capturing image data corresponding the substrate test strip; sending the image data to one or more computing resources for image processing; and receiving an indication representing a completion of the image processing.
7. The device of claim 6, wherein the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media store computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform further acts comprising determining a type of substrate test strip, wherein at least one of positioning the image capturing device or illuminating the at least the portion of the substrate test strip is based at least in part on the type of substrate test strip.
8. The device of claim 6, wherein illuminating the at least the portion of the substrate test strip via the one or more light sources includes at least one of: illuminating the one or more light sources to a predetermined brightness; or illuminating the one or more light sources to a particular color.
9. The device of claim 6, wherein the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media store computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform further acts comprising: determining a type of cartridge holding the substrate test strip; and determining an analyte being tested using the substrate test strip, wherein at least one of positioning an image capturing device or illuminating the at least the portion of the substrate test strip is based at least in part on at least one of the type of cartridge or the analyte being tested.
10. The device of claim 6, wherein the one or more actuators are configured to move the image capturing device at least one of vertically or horizontally relative to the substrate test strip.
11. The device of claim 6, wherein the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media store computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform further acts comprising: illuminating a light indicator according to a first appearance state based at least in part on receiving the request; illuminating the light indicator according to a second appearance state based at least in part on capturing the image data, the second appearance state being different than the first appearance state; and illuminating the light indicator according to a third appearance state based at least in part on receiving the indication, the third appearance state being different than the second appearance state.
12. The device of claim 6, wherein the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media store computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform further acts comprising: determining an analyte being tested with the substrate test strip; and determining a time at which to capture the image data based at least in part on at least one of: the substrate test strip, or the analyte being tested.
13. A device comprising: a housing; a light source to emit light on a sample disposed within the housing when in use, the light emitted based at least in part on at least one of an analyte being tested within the sample or a container holding the sample; an image capturing device to capture image data associated with the sample; and one or more actuators operably coupled to the image capturing device, the one or more actuators configured to position the image capturing device relative to the sample based at least in part on the at least one of the analyte being tested or the container holding the sample.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein: the light source includes a plurality of light sources arranged around the sample; and individual light sources of the plurality of light sources are configured to emit light independently onto the sample based at least in part on the sample.
15. The device of claim 14, wherein the plurality of light sources are disposed around the image capturing device.
16. The device of claim 13, wherein the light source is configured to at least one of emit light of a predetermined color or emit light of a predetermined brightness.
17. The device of claim 13, further comprising a slide to hold the sample, the slide being moveable between an open state and a closed state within the housing.
18. The device of claim 17, further comprising a locking assembly to lock the slide in the closed state and unlock the slide in the open state.
19. The device of claim 13, further comprising a slide to hold the sample, wherein the slide includes at least one of fins, receptacles, or protrusions arranged within the housing to hold the sample in a fixed position.
20. The device of claim 13, wherein the one or more actuators adjust a position of the image capturing device in at least one of a vertical direction or a horizontal direction, relative to the sample.
</claims>
</document>
