<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJITSU
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHIOTA, TETSUYOSHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69178205
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATION OF DATA FOR IMPROVING DETERMINATION ACCURACY OF A CLASSIFIER MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
Chronological data having a first cycle including a set of unit times of a predetermined number is provided. Image data including a figure is generated based on the chronological data. The figure is generated such that respective sets of unit times included in the chronological data are arranged in a spiral in chronological order and unit times corresponding to a same position within the first cycle are radially aligned from the center of the spiral.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data generation method executed by a computer, the data generation method comprising: accepting chronological data having a first cycle including a set of unit times of a predetermined number; and generating image data including a figure generated based on the chronological data, wherein the figure is generated such that respective sets of unit times included in the chronological data are arranged in a spiral in chronological order and unit times corresponding to a same position within the first cycle are radially aligned from the center of the spiral.
2. The data generation method of claim 1, wherein the image data is data for learning for a convolutional neural network including a convolution layer in which a convolution operation is performed on neuron data that have been input to the convolutional neural network.
3. The data generation method of claim 2, wherein the generating includes setting, based on a convolution filter size of the convolutional neural network, a first interval between events arranged in chronological order along a circumferential direction with respect to the center and a second interval between events arranged closely to each other in a radial direction with respect to the center of the spiral.
4. The data generation method of claim 1, wherein the generating includes setting a cycle detected based on a spectrum analysis of the chronological data as the first cycle.
5. The data generation method of claim 1, wherein the chronological data is work data in which a work situation of an employee is recorded.
6. The data generation method of claim 5, wherein: the first cycle is one week and a unit time is a day within a week of a calendar; and the generating includes generating, with respect to a day position of the calendar, the figure in which corresponding days in adjacent weeks are arranged closely to each other in the radial direction with respect to the center of the spiral.
7. The data generation method of claim 5, further comprising: changing a weight of at least one of a convolution layer, a pooling layer, and a connected layer in the convolutional neural network by using a feature part in the figure; and generating a learned model for predicting a person who is to receive medical care from events that have occurred in cyclic time units.
8. A non-transitory, computer-readable recording medium having stored therein a program for causing a computer to execute a process comprising: accepting chronological data having a first cycle including a set of unit times of a predetermined number; and generating image data including a figure generated based on the chronological data, wherein the figure is generated such that respective sets of unit times included in the chronological data are arranged in a spiral in chronological order and unit times corresponding to a same position within the first cycle are radially aligned from the center of the spiral.
9. The non-transitory, computer-readable recording medium of claim 8, wherein the image data is data for learning for a convolutional neural network including a convolution layer in which a convolution operation is performed on neuron data that have been input to the convolutional neural network.
10. The non-transitory, computer-readable recording medium of claim 9, wherein the generating includes setting, based on a convolution filter size of the convolutional neural network, a first interval between events arranged in chronological order along a circumferential direction with respect to the center of the spiral and a second interval between events arranged closely to each other in a radial direction with respect to the center.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable recording medium of claim 8, wherein the generating includes setting a cycle detected based on a spectrum analysis of the chronological data as the first cycle.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable recording medium of claim 8, wherein the chronological data is work data in which a work situation of an employee is recorded.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable recording medium of claim 12, wherein: the first cycle is one week and a unit time is a day within a week of a calendar; and the generating includes generating, with respect to a day position of the calendar, the figure in which corresponding days in adjacent weeks are arranged closely to each other in the radial direction with respect to the center of the spiral.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable recording medium of claim 12, the process further comprising: changing a weight of at least one of a convolution layer, a pooling layer, and a connected layer in the convolutional neural network by using a feature part in the figure; and generating a learned model for predicting a person who is to receive medical care from events that have occurred in cyclic time units.
15. A non-transitory, computer-readable recording medium having stored therein a data structure for causing a computer to execute a process using the data structure, the data structure comprising: graphic data in which, based on chronological data having a first cycle including a set of unit times of a predetermined number, respective sets of unit times included in the chronological data are arranged in a spiral in chronological order and unit times corresponding to a same position within the first cycle are radially aligned from the center of the spiral; and correct answer information assigned to the graphic data, wherein the process includes: inputting, as data for learning, the graphic data and the correct answer information to an input layer of a convolutional neural network, outputting an output value indicating a calculation result from an output layer of the convolutional neural network, and performing learning based on a comparison between the correct answer information and the output value.
</claims>
</document>
