<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/46,G06T5/20,G06T7/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOE TECHNOLOGY GROUP COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, GUANNAN
WU, Yanhong
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68122020
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EXPRESSION RECOGNITION METHOD, COMPUTER DEVICE, AND COMPUTER-READABLE STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides an expression recognition method, a computer device, and a computer-readable storage medium. The expression recognition method includes: obtaining a facial image to be recognized; preprocessing the facial image to be recognized to obtain a preprocessed facial image; obtaining a first output image according to the preprocessed facial image, wherein the first output image at least represents a texture feature of the facial image to be recognized; obtaining a second output image according to the first output image, wherein the second output image at least represents a structural feature of organs of the facial image to be recognized; and determining an expression category corresponding to the facial image to be recognized, according to the second output image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An expression recognition method, comprising: obtaining a facial image to be recognized; preprocessing the facial image to be recognized to obtain a preprocessed facial image; obtaining a first output image according to the preprocessed facial image, wherein the first output image at least represents a texture feature of the facial image to be recognized; obtaining a second output image according to the first output image, wherein the second output image at least represents a structural feature of organs of the facial image to be recognized; and determining an expression category corresponding to the facial image to be recognized, according to the second output image.
2. The expression recognition method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the first output image according to the preprocessed facial image, comprises: performing a first partition convolution process on a first input image to obtain the first output image, wherein the first input image is obtained based on the preprocessed facial image.
3. The expression recognition method of claim 2, wherein performing the first partition convolution process on the first input image to obtain the first output image, comprises: dividing the first input image into a plurality of first regions arranged in rows and columns; performing feature extraction on each first region of the plurality of first regions to obtain a first regional feature image corresponding to the first region; wherein a size of the first regional feature image is smaller than a size of the preprocessed facial image; and combining all of first regional feature images to generate the first output image with a same size as the preprocessed facial image.
4. The expression recognition method of claim 3, wherein dividing the first input image into the plurality of first regions arranged in rows and columns, comprises: performing a first convolution process on the first input image to obtain a first feature image; and dividing the first feature image into the plurality of first regions arranged in rows and columns.
5. The expression recognition method of claim 3, wherein dividing the first input into the plurality of first regions arranged in rows and columns, comprises: dividing the first input image into the plurality of first regions which are of a same size and shape and arranged in rows and columns; and/or dividing the first input image into 16 first regions arranged in 4 rows and 4 columns,
6. The expression recognition method of claim 3, wherein performing the feature extraction on the first region to obtain the first regional feature image, comprises: performing a batch normalization process on the first region, to obtain a first normalized image of the first region; activating the first normalized image to obtain a first activated image; and performing a second convolution process on the first activated image to obtain the first regional feature image.
7. The expression recognition method of claim 2, before performing the first partition convolution process on the first input image to obtain the first output image, further comprising: performing a third partition convolution process on a third input image to obtain a third output image; wherein the third input image is obtained based on the preprocessed facial image, and the first input image is obtained based on the third output image.
8. The expression recognition method of claim 7, wherein performing the third partition convolution process on the third input image to obtain the third output image, comprises: dividing the third input image into a plurality of third regions arranged in rows and columns; performing feature extraction on each third region of the plurality of third regions to obtain a third regional feature image corresponding to the third region; wherein a size of he third regional feature image is smaller than a size of the preprocessed facial image; and combining all of third regional feature images to generate the third output image with a same size as the preprocessed facial image.
9. The expression recognition method of claim 8, wherein dividing the third input image into the plurality of third regions arranged in rows and columns, comprises: performing a first convolution process on the third input image to obtain a third feature image; and dividing the third feature image into the plurality of third regions arranged in rows and columns.
10. The expression recognition method of claim 8, wherein dividing the third input image into the plurality of third regions arranged in rows and columns, comprises: dividing the third input image into 16 third regions arranged in 4 rows and 4 columns.
11. The expression recognition method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the second output image according to the first output image, comprises: performing a second partition convolution process on a second input image to obtain the second output image, wherein the second input image is obtained based on the first output image.
12. The expression recognition method of claim 11, wherein performing the second partition convolution process on the second input image to obtain the second output image, comprises: dividing the second input image into a plurality of second regions based on positions of key organs on a face, so that the key organs are located in different second regions of the plurality of second regions; performing feature extraction on each second region of the plurality of second regions to obtain a second regional feature image corresponding to the second region; wherein a size of the second regional feature image is smaller than a size of the preprocessed facial image; and combining all of second regional feature images to generate the second output image with a same size as the preprocessed facial image.
13. The expression recognition method of claim 12, wherein dividing the second input image into the plurality of second regions, comprises: performing a first convolution process on the second input image to obtain a second feature image; and dividing the second feature image into the plurality of second regions.
14. The expression recognition method of claim 12, wherein dividing the second input image into the plurality of second regions, comprises: dividing the second input image into 3 second regions arranged in 3 rows and 1 column, wherein the 3 second regions respectively correspond to eyes, a nose and a mouth in the facial image to be recognized.
15. The expression recognition method of claim 12, wherein performing the feature extraction on the second region to obtain the second regional feature image, comprises: performing a batch normalization process on the second region, to obtain a second normalized image of the second region; activating the second normalized image to obtain a second activated image; and performing a second convolution process on the second activated image to obtain the second regional feature image.
16. The expression recognition method of claim 1, wherein preprocessing the facial mage to be recognized to obtain the preprocessed facial image, comprises: performing an image enhancement process on the facial image to be recognized to obtain an enhanced facial image.
17. The expression recognition method of claim 1, wherein preprocessing the facial image to be recognized to obtain the preprocessed facial image, comprises: performing low-pass filtering on the facial image to be recognized to obtain a low-frequency image; acquiring a difference image between the facial image to be recognized and the low-frequency image; and determining a weighted sum of the difference image and the facial image to be recognized as the preprocessed facial image.
18. The expression recognition method of claim 1, wherein determining the expression category corresponding to the facial image to be recognized, according to the second output image, comprises: performing a third convolution process on the second output image to obtain an output feature image; performing a global average pooling process on the output feature image to obtain a pooled feature image; determining confidence levels respectively corresponding to respective preset expression categories according to the pooled feature image; and determining the expression category corresponding to the facial image to be recognized, according to the confidence levels respectively corresponding to the respective preset expression categories.
19. A computer device, comprising: one or more processors; and a memory, on which one or more programs are stored; wherein the one or more programs is configured, when executed by the one or more processors, to implement the expression recognition method of claim 1.
20. A computer-readable storage medium having computer instructions stored thereon that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to implement the expression recognition method of claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
