<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/88,G01S7/41
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
First Responder Technologies Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
MALHI, KULWANT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67064226
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BODY-MOUNTED THREAT DETECTION SYSTEM AND METHODS OF USING SAME
</title>

<abstract>
Body-mounted threat detection systems and methods of detecting threats using body-mounted threat detection systems are provided. Threats detected include guns, knives and/or explosives. A body-mounted transmitter directs electromagnetic radiation towards the target and a body-mounted receiver receives electromagnetic radiation returned from the target. The return signal is analyzed and a signal indicative of the presence or absence of a threat is generated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A body-mounted threat detection system for allowing a user of the system to detect threat objects on a target, the system comprising: a body-mounted transmitter for directing electromagnetic radiation towards the target; a body-mounted receiver for receiving elect magnetic radiation returned from the target as a return signal; a database comprising a plurality of predetermined t plates representing return signals for a plurality of different known threat items; a processor adapted to analyze the return signal by comparing the return signal with the plurality of predetermined threat templates; and a signal unit configured to output a threat indication the processor determines that the return signal matches one or more of the predetermined threat templates.
2. A body-mounted threat detection system as defined in claim 1, wherein the database further comprises a plurality of predetermined safe templates representing return signals for a plurality of different known safe items, and wherein the processor is further configured to analyze the return signal by comparing the return signal with the plurality of predetermined safe templates.
3. A body-mounted threat detection system as defined in claim 2, wherein the signal unit is configured to output a safe indication if the processor determines that the return signal matches one or more of the predetermined safe templates and none of the predetermined threat templates.
4. A body-mounted threat detection system as defined in claim 1, wherein the signal unit is configured to output an unknown signal if the signal unit determines that the return signal matches none of the predetermined safe templates and none of the predetermined threat templates.
5. A body-mounted threat detection system as defined in claim 1, wherein the plurality of predetermined threat templates include a plurality: of threat templates for guns, knives and explosives, wherein the processor is configured to make a determination of whether the return signal matches at least one of the plurality of threat templates for guns, knives or explosives.
6. A body-mounted threat detection system as defined in claim 5, wherein the signal unit is configured to output an indication that: the threat object is a gun if the processor determines that the return signal matches at east one of the plurality of threat templates for guns; the threat object is a knife if the processor determines that the return signal matches at east one of the plurality of threat templates for knives; or the threat object is an explosive if the processor determines that the return signal matches at least one of the plurality of threat templates for explosives.
7. (canceled)
8. (canceled)
9. (canceled)
10. (canceled)
11. (canceled)
12. A body-mounted threat detection system as defined in claim 1, wherein the body-mounted transmitter comprises one or more body-mounted antennas.
13. A body-mounted threat detection system as defined in claim 1, wherein the body-mounted receiver comprises one or more body-mounted antennas.
14. A method of allowing a user to detect a threat object on a target comprising: transmitting electromagnetic radiation towards the target from a transmitter worn on the body of the user; receiving electromagnetic radiation returned from the target as a return signal using a receiver worn on the body of the user; comparing the return signal with a plurality of predetermined threat templates representing return signals for a plurality of different known threat items; and outputting to the user a threat indication if the return signal matches one or more of the predetermined threat templates.
15. A method as defined in claim 14, further comprising comparing the return signal with a plurality of predetermined safe templates representing return signals for a plurality of different known safe items.
16. A method as defined in claim 15, comprising outputting to the user a safe indication if the return signal matches one or more of the predetermined safe templates and none of the predetermined threat templates.
17. A method as defined in claim 14, comprising outputting to the user an unknown indication if the return signal matches none of the predetermined safe templates and none of the predetermined threat templates.
18. A method as defined in claim 14, wherein the step of comparing the return signal with a plurality of predetermined threat templates comprises comparing the return signal with a plurality of threat templates for guns, knives and explosives, and wherein the step of outputting to the user a threat indication comprises: if the return signal matches at least one of the plurality of threat templates for guns, outputting to the user an indication that the threat object is a gun; if the return signal matches at least one of the plurality of threat templates for knives, outputting to the user an indication that the threat object is a knife; and if the return signal matches at least one of the plurality of threat templates for explosives, outputting to the user an indication that the threat object is an explosive.
19. (canceled)
20. (canceled)
21. A computer readable medium having stored thereon instructions that, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to carry out the method as defined in claim 14.
22. (canceled)
23. (canceled)
24. (canceled)
25. (canceled)
26. A body-mounted threat detection system or a method as defined in claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic radiation comprises microwaves.
27. A body-mounted threat detection system or a method as defined in claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic radiation has a frequency in the range of 300 MHz to 300 GHz.
28. A body-mounted threat detection system or a method as defined in claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic radiation has a wavelength in the range of 0.1 cm to 100 cm.
29. A body-mounted threat detection system or a method as defined in claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic radiation is polarized.
30. A body-mounted threat detection system or a method as defined in claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic radiation comprises a stepped frequency pulse.
31. A body-mounted threat detection system or a method as defined in claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic radiation comprises a wide-band pulse.
</claims>
</document>
