<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04M3/51,H04W4/021,H04W4/029,H04W4/90,H04W76/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RAPIDSOS
</assignee>

<inventors>
HORELIK, NICHOLAS EDWARD
PELLEGRINI, RICCARDO
MARTIN, MICHAEL JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72334746
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR EMERGENCY DISPATCH
</title>

<abstract>
A disclosed method includes receiving data inputs for a plurality of events including alarms, sensors, and mobile device emergency call and emergency alert related emergency data; determining event correlations based on the data inputs to generate a set of correlated events; determining emergency network dispatch rules for each correlated event based on event type; applying corresponding emergency network dispatch rules to each corresponding correlated event; and sending a dispatch recommendation to an emergency network entity for each correlated event based on application of the corresponding emergency network dispatch rules.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving data inputs for a plurality of events comprising alarms, sensors, and mobile device emergency call and emergency alert related emergency data; determining event correlations based on the data inputs to generate a set of correlated events; determining emergency network dispatch rules for each correlated event based on event type; applying corresponding emergency network dispatch rules to each corresponding correlated event; and sending a dispatch recommendation to an emergency network entity for each correlated event based on application of the corresponding emergency network dispatch rules.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: dispatching emergency responders automatically by sending the dispatch recommendation to emergency responders corresponding to the event type for each correlated event.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the emergency network entity for each correlated event based on associations between the data inputs corresponding to each correlated event and each emergency network entity's geographic boundary.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining event correlations based on the data inputs to generate a set of correlated events, comprises: determining event correlations via a logic component trained using machine learning.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein applying corresponding emergency network dispatch rules to each corresponding correlated event, comprises: determining answers to a series of questions corresponding to the event type via a logic component trained using machine learning.
6. The method of claim 3, further comprising: establishing a plurality of network connections with a plurality of emergency network entities; and sending dispatch recommendations to each emergency network entity based on the associations between the data inputs corresponding to each correlated event and with each emergency network entity's geographic boundary.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining emergency network dispatch rules for each correlated event based on event type, comprises: determining an event type for each correlated event as an event type selected from the group of: a fire emergency event, a police emergency event and a medical emergency event.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining emergency network dispatch rules for each correlated event based on event type, comprises: determining that a correlated event includes a combination of at least two event types selected from the group of: a fire emergency event, a police emergency event and a medical emergency event.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: sending a first dispatch recommendation related to a first event type to an emergency network entity for a correlated event; and sending a second dispatch recommendation related to a second event type for the correlated event.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein sending a second dispatch recommendation related to a second event type for the correlated event, comprises: sending the second dispatch recommendation related to the second event type to a second emergency network entity.
11. An apparatus comprising: a network component, operative to connect to the Internet; event correlation logic, operatively coupled to the network component, the event correlation logic operative to: receive data inputs for a plurality of events comprising alarms, sensors, and mobile device emergency call and emergency alert related emergency data; determine event correlations based on the data inputs to generate a set of correlated events; determine emergency network dispatch rules for each correlated event based on event type; apply corresponding emergency network dispatch rules to each corresponding correlated event; and send a dispatch recommendation to an emergency network entity for each correlated event based on application of the corresponding emergency network dispatch rules.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the event correlation logic is further operative to: dispatch emergency responders automatically by sending the dispatch recommendation to emergency responders corresponding to the emergency type for each correlated event.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising: a geofence module, operatively coupled to the event correlation logic, the geofence module operative to: determine the emergency network entity for each correlated event based on associations between the data inputs corresponding to each correlated event and each emergency network entity's geographic boundary.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the event correlation logic is trained to determine event correlations using machine learning.
15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the event correlation logic is trained to apply corresponding emergency network dispatch rules to each corresponding correlated event, by determining answers to a series of questions corresponding to the event type using machine learning.
16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the event correlation logic is further operative to: establish a plurality of network connections with a plurality of emergency network entities; and send dispatch recommendations to each emergency network entity based on the associations between the data inputs corresponding to each correlated event and with each emergency network entity's geographic boundary.
17. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the event correlation logic is operative to determine emergency network dispatch rules for each correlated event based on event type, by determining an event type for each correlated event as an event type selected from the group of: a fire emergency event, a police emergency event and a medical emergency event.
18. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the event correlation logic is operative to determine emergency network dispatch rules for each correlated event based on event type, by determining that a correlated event includes a combination of at least two event types selected from the group of: a fire emergency event, a police emergency event and a medical emergency event.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the event correlation logic is further operative to: send a first dispatch recommendation related to a first event type to an emergency network entity for a correlated event; and send a second dispatch recommendation related to a second event type for the correlated event.
20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the event correlation logic is operative to send a second dispatch recommendation related to a second event type for the correlated event, by sending the second dispatch recommendation related to the second event type to a second emergency network entity.
</claims>
</document>
