<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EBAY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHAMIDIPATI, VENKATA SIVA VIJAYENDRA
CHAMORRO, DEREK
CHAN, MICHAEL
JAIN, ARPIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68296693
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
STORING AND VERIFICATION OF DERIVATIVE WORK DATA ON BLOCKCHAIN WITH ORIGINAL WORK DATA
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is technology for storing original work data on a derivative work data blockchain along with code for verifying that derivative work data is derivative of the original work data. The technology involves receiving derivative work data from a submitting entity along with proof data showing that the derivative work is derivative of the original work. If the derivative work data is verified as derivative, then the derivative work data is appended to the derivative work data blockchain.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for storing original work data and managing derivative work data, the method comprising: receiving original work data; storing the original work data in a blockchain; receiving second work data and proof data relating to whether the second work data is a derivative of the original work data; in response to receiving the second work data: verifying the received proof data by validating the second work data is a derivative of the original work data, appending the second work data to the blockchain, and storing the received proof data in the blockchain in association with the original work data.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where the original work data comprises at least one of: source code, object code, an executable, literary text, an audio file, an image file, a video file, a graphical file, a biomedical/health/medical data record, a graphical model, a video game, and genetic data.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where the step of verifying the received proof data by validating the second work data is a derivative of the original work data includes: transferring value to an entity from which the proof data is received.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where: the step of storing the original work data in a blockchain includes, each of one or more portions of the original work data: calculating an entropy value for the portion of the original work, and storing the calculated entropy value in the blockchain in association with the portion of the original work data; and the step of verifying the received proof data by validating the second work is a derivative of the original work comprises: calculating an entropy value of at least a portion of the second work data, searching the stored entropy values in the blockchain for the one or more portions of the original work data for at least one stored entropy value that is within a threshold difference to the entropy value calculated for the portion of the second work data.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, where: the step of calculating a first entropy of at least a portion of the original work comprises: calculating a first entropy signature by analysis of subsets of data within the original work; and the step of calculating a second entropy of at least a portion of the second work comprises: calculating a second entropy signature by analysis of subsets of data within the second work; and the step of determining whether the second entropy is within a threshold difference to the first entropy comprises: comparing the first entropy signature to the second entropy signature to determine whether the second entropy signature is within the threshold difference to the first entropy signature.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where the step of verifying the received proof data by validating the second work is a derivative of the original work includes: comparing one or more subsets of data in the original work to a subset of data in the second work; and determining whether a correlation between one of the subsets of data in the original work to the subset of data in the second work is within a correlation threshold.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where the step of verifying the received proof data by validating the second work is a derivative of the original work comprises: inputting the original work data to a prediction model trained on differentiation of original works from derivative works; submitting the second work data to the prediction model; receiving an output prediction value from the prediction model for the second work data; and determining that the second work data is derivative of the original work data if the output prediction value meets a prediction threshold value.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, where the prediction model utilizes one or more of: a linear regression model, a logistic regression model, a decision tree, a support vector machine, a naïve Bayesian machine, k-means clustering, a gradient booting algorithm, a convolution neural network, a recurrent neural network, and a multi-instance learning algorithm.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where: the proof data comprises a first data fingerprint of the original work and a second data fingerprint corresponding to the second work; and the step of verifying the received proof data by validating the second work is a derivative of the original work comprises determining whether the second data fingerprint is within a similarity threshold to the first data fingerprint.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where the step of storing the original work data in a blockchain comprises: storing the original work data in a data structure that includes at least one of a Merkle tree, a Patricia trie, or a modified Merkle Patricia trie; and storing the data structure in the blockchain.
11. A system for storing original work data and managing derivative work data, the system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more memory devices in communication with the one or more processors, the memory devices having computer-readable instructions stored thereupon that, when executed by the processors, cause the processors to operate by: receiving original work data; storing the original work data in a blockchain; receiving second work data and proof data relating to whether the second work data is a derivative of the original work data; in response to receiving the second work data: verifying the received proof data by validating the second work data is a derivative of the original work data, appending the second work data to the blockchain, and storing the received proof data in the blockchain in association with the original work data.
12. The system of claim 11, where the original work data comprises at least one of: source code, object code, an executable, literary text, an audio file, an image file, a video file, a graphical file, a biomedical/health/medical data record, a graphical model, a video game, and genetic data.
13. The system of claim 11, where the operation of verifying the received proof data by validating the second work data is a derivative of the original work data includes: transferring value to an entity from which the proof data is received.
14. The system of claim 11, where the operation of verifying the received proof data by validating the second work is a derivative of the original work includes: comparing one or more subsets of data in the original work to a subset of data in the second work; and determining whether a correlation between one of the subsets of data in the original work to the subset of data in the second work is within a correlation threshold.
15. The system of claim 11, where the operation of verifying the received proof data by validating the second work is a derivative of the original work includes comprises: inputting the original work data to a prediction model trained on differentiation of original works from derivative works; submitting the second work data to the prediction model; receiving an output prediction value from the prediction model for the second work data; and determining that the second work data is derivative of the original work data if the output prediction value meets a prediction threshold value.
16. One or more computer readable storage media having computer executable instructions stored thereon which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the processors to execute a method for storing original work data and managing derivative work data comprising operations for: receiving original work data; storing the original work data in a blockchain; receiving second work data and proof data relating to whether the second work data is a derivative of the original work data; in response to receiving the second work data: verifying the received proof data by validating the second work data is a derivative of the original work data, appending the second work data to the blockchain, and storing the received proof data in the blockchain in association with the original work data.
17. The computer readable storage media of claim 16, where: the operation of storing the original work data in a blockchain includes, each of one or more portions of the original work data: calculating an entropy value for the portion of the original work, and storing the calculated entropy value in the blockchain in association with the portion of the original work data; and the operation of verifying the received proof data by validating the second work is a derivative of the original work comprises: calculating an entropy value of at least a portion of the second work data, searching the stored entropy values in the blockchain for the one or more portions of the original work data for at least one stored entropy value that is within a threshold difference to the entropy value calculated for the portion of the second work data.
18. The computer readable storage media of claim 16, where: the operation of calculating a first entropy of at least a portion of the original work comprises: calculating a first entropy signature by analysis of subsets of data within the original work; and the operation of calculating a second entropy of at least a portion of the second work comprises: calculating a second entropy signature by analysis of subsets of data within the second work; and the operation of determining whether the second entropy is within a threshold difference to the first entropy comprises: comparing the first entropy signature to the second entropy signature to determine whether the second entropy signature is within the threshold difference to the first entropy signature.
19. The computer readable storage media of claim 16, where: the proof data comprises a first data fingerprint of the original work and a second data fingerprint corresponding to the second work; and the operation of verifying the received proof data by validating the second work is a derivative of the original work comprises determining whether the second data fingerprint is within a similarity threshold to the first data fingerprint.
20. The computer readable storage media of claim 16, where the operation of storing the original work data in a blockchain comprises: storing the original work data in a data structure that includes at least one of a Merkle tree, a Patricia trie, or a modified Merkle Patricia trie; and storing the data structure in the blockchain.
</claims>
</document>
