<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/18,G06F17/15,G06N20/00,H04L12/24,H04L29/06,H04L9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PERPETUA, JR., DENNIS ANTHONY
ARORA, PRITPAL
GOTTSCHALK, RONALD G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70771768
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cognitive balancing IT ecosystems
</title>

<abstract>
An approach is provided in which an information handling system loads a set of event data corresponding to an information technology (IT) ecosystem into a blockchain framework. The blockchain framework, in turn, generates a set of anomaly data based on the set of event data. The information handling system identifies a set of parameter values to adjust corresponding to the IT ecosystem based on the set of anomaly data, and the information handling system then optimizes the IT ecosystem by adjusting the identified set of parameter values in the IT ecosystem.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented by an information handling system that includes a memory and a processor, the method comprising: loading a set of event data corresponding to an information technology (IT) ecosystem into a blockchain framework, wherein the set of event data identifies a corresponding set of states of a corresponding set of IT components in the IT ecosystem; generating, by the block chain framework, a set of anomaly data based on the set of event data; identifying a set of parameter values to adjust in the IT ecosystem based on the set of anomaly data; and optimizing the IT ecosystem by adjusting the identified set of parameter values in the IT ecosystem.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the identifying of the set of parameter values further comprises: determining that the set of anomaly data exceeds a portion of a plurality of design thresholds corresponding to a plurality of parameter levers; and selecting a portion of the plurality of parameter levers corresponding to the exceeded portion of the plurality of design thresholds, wherein the set of parameter values to adjust corresponds to the selected portion of the plurality of parameter values.
3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: evaluating the set of anomaly data against a set of business rules; in response to evaluating the set anomaly data against the set of business rules, detecting an anomaly of at least one of a system revenue, a support model, and a contractual agreement; and identifying the set of parameter values to adjust based on the detected anomaly.
4. The method of claim 1 further comprising: displaying the set of parameter values to adjust on a user interface as a set of adjustment recommendations; receiving one or more administrator changes to the set of adjustment recommendations; and adjusting a cognitive engine in the information handling system based on the one or more administrator changes.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising: separating, by the blockchain framework, the set of event data into a plurality of domain type data sets corresponding to at least one of the set of IT components in the IT ecosystem; loading each of the plurality of domain type data sets into one of a plurality of transaction shards; and generating the set of anomaly data based on detecting that one or more out of bounds conditions exist in response to applying a set of correlation rules to each of the plurality of transaction shards.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: quarantining an image in response to determining that the set of anomaly data indicates a malicious activity by the image within the IT ecosystem.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein set of event data corresponds to at least one of the set of IT components included in the IT ecosystem selected from the group consisting of an IT enterprise storage element, an IT enterprise network element, an IT enterprise compute element, an IT enterprise system element, an IT enterprise discovery system component, an IT enterprise data lakes component, an IT enterprise data warehouse component, an IT enterprise security database component, an IT enterprise logger component, an IT enterprise aggregator component, an IT enterprise consolidator component, an IT enterprise event generator component, and an IT operations analytic engine component.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the set of parameter values corresponds to at least one parameter lever selected from the group consisting of a cost lever, a performance and duration lever, a capacity lever, a security and vulnerability lever, a resource skills/experience lever, a quality lever, a process maturity lever, a resilience lever, a service-level agreement (SLA) lever, a currency lever, an automation/savings lever, a deployment agility lever, a conformity to standards lever, and a technology configuration and tuning lever.
9. An information handling system comprising: one or more processors; a memory coupled to at least one of the processors; a set of computer program instructions stored in the memory and executed by at least one of the processors in order to perform actions of: loading a set of event data corresponding to an information technology (IT) ecosystem into a blockchain framework, wherein the set of event data identifies a corresponding set of states of a corresponding set of IT components in the IT ecosystem; generating, by the block chain framework, a set of anomaly data based on the set of event data; identifying a set of parameter values to adjust in the IT ecosystem based on the set of anomaly data; and optimizing the IT ecosystem by adjusting the identified set of parameter values in the IT ecosystem.
10. The information handling system of claim 9 wherein the processors perform additional actions comprising: determining that the set of anomaly data exceeds a portion of a plurality of design thresholds corresponding to a plurality of parameter levers; and selecting a portion of the plurality of parameter levers corresponding to the exceeded portion of the plurality of design thresholds, wherein the set of parameter values to adjust corresponds to the selected portion of the plurality of parameter values.
11. The information handling system of claim 9 wherein the processors perform additional actions comprising: evaluating the set of anomaly data against a set of business rules; in response to evaluating the set anomaly data against the set of business rules, detecting an anomaly of at least one of a system revenue, a support model, and a contractual agreement; and identifying the set of parameter values to adjust based on the detected anomaly.
12. The information handling system of claim 9 wherein the processors perform additional actions comprising: displaying the set of parameter values to adjust on a user interface as a set of adjustment recommendations; receiving one or more administrator changes to the set of adjustment recommendations; and adjusting a cognitive engine in the information handling system based on the one or more administrator changes.
13. The information handling system of claim 9 wherein the processors perform additional actions comprising: separating, by the blockchain framework, the set of event data into a plurality of domain type data sets corresponding to at least one of the set of IT components in the IT ecosystem loading each of the plurality of domain type data sets into one of a plurality of transaction shards; and generating the set of anomaly data based on detecting that one or more out of bounds conditions exist in response to applying a set of correlation rules to each of the plurality of transaction shards.
14. The information handling system of claim 9 wherein the processors perform additional actions comprising: quarantining an image in response to determining that the set of anomaly data indicates a malicious activity by the image within the IT ecosystem.
15. A computer program product stored in a computer readable storage medium, comprising computer program code that, when executed by an information handling system, causes the information handling system to perform actions comprising: loading a set of event data corresponding to an information technology (IT) ecosystem into a blockchain framework, wherein the set of event data identifies a corresponding set of states of a corresponding set of IT components in the IT ecosystem; generating, by the block chain framework, a set of anomaly data based on the set of event data; identifying a set of parameter values to adjust in the IT ecosystem based on the set of anomaly data; and optimizing the IT ecosystem by adjusting the identified set of parameter values in the IT ecosystem.
16. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the information handling system performs further actions comprising: determining that the set of anomaly data exceeds a portion of a plurality of design thresholds corresponding to a plurality of parameter levers; and selecting a portion of the plurality of parameter levers corresponding to the exceeded portion of the plurality of design thresholds, wherein the set of parameter values to adjust corresponds to the selected portion of the plurality of parameter values.
17. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the information handling system performs further actions comprising: evaluating the set of anomaly data against a set of business rules; in response to evaluating the set anomaly data against the set of business rules, detecting an anomaly of at least one of a system revenue, a support model, and a contractual agreement; and identifying the set of parameter values to adjust based on the detected anomaly.
18. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the information handling system performs further actions comprising: displaying the set of parameter values to adjust on a user interface as a set of adjustment recommendations; receiving one or more administrator changes to the set of adjustment recommendations; and adjusting a cognitive engine in the information handling system based on the one or more administrator changes.
19. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the information handling system performs further actions comprising: separating, by the blockchain framework, the set of event data into a plurality of domain type data sets corresponding to at least one of the set of IT components in the IT ecosystem loading each of the plurality of domain type data sets into one of a plurality of transaction shards; and generating the set of anomaly data based on detecting that one or more out of bounds conditions exist in response to applying a set of correlation rules to each of the plurality of transaction shards.
20. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the information handling system performs further actions comprising: quarantining an image in response to determining that the set of anomaly data indicates a malicious activity by the image within the IT ecosystem.
</claims>
</document>
