<document>

<filing_date>
2016-06-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/06,H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NUTANIX
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUPTA, KARAN
KHOT, VINAYAK HINDURAO
NAGPAL, ABHINAY
LIAO, ROGER SEAN
PANDA, BISWA RANJAN
SRINIVASAN, DEEPTHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69178783
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTION OF OUTLIER NODES IN A CLUSTER
</title>

<abstract>
Systems for cluster computing. A method for detection and remediation of degraded nodes in a cluster commences upon measuring operational aspects of the nodes in the cluster, then determining, based on the measurements and other factors, a suspect set of nodes comprising one or more suspect nodes from the nodes in the cluster that have measurements that are determined to be outliers with respect to remaining nodes that are determined not to be the outliers. A density-based spatial clustering analysis is performed over the suspect set and remediation actions are initiated when results of the density-based spatial clustering analysis identifies a suspect node as being a degraded node.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: monitoring a first node with multiple nodes of a computing cluster; gathering observation data for the first node from the multiple nodes, the observation data corresponding to a service performed by a first virtual controller on the first node in response to requests from respective virtual controllers on the multiple nodes; generating, by the multiple nodes, scores for the first node, wherein the scores correspond to the service performed by the first virtual controller on the first node; and generating an alert for the first node as an outlier node based at least in part upon the scores.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising reporting a node ID of the at least one performance outlier node.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying the first node or the second node as an outlier node based at least in part upon the scores even when the observation data indicate compliance of the first node with a level beyond which outliers are identified.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising initiating remediation that alters a status of the first node identified as the outlier node.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one first remediation comprises at least one of revoking a leadership role of the first node, reassigning a new leadership role of the first node, reassigning a portion of functions performed by the first node, migrating a user virtual machine on the first node to another node in the computing cluster, or any combination thereof.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein a delay is introduced after initiating the first remediation and before initiating a second remediation.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the scores is generated with a statistical technique.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the observation data is formatted into a plurality of vectors.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one of the plurality of vectors is composed of at least one of an inter-node observation or an inter-service observation.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising performing a clustering analysis on the vectors.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the clustering analysis comprises a density-based spatial clustering analysis.
12. A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon a sequence of instructions which, when stored in memory and executed by a processor, causes the processor to perform a set of acts, the set of acts comprising: monitoring a first node with multiple nodes of a computing cluster; gathering observation data for the first node from the multiple nodes, the observation data corresponding to a service performed by a first virtual controller on the first node in response to requests from respective virtual controllers on the multiple nodes; generating, by the multiple nodes, scores for the first node, wherein the scores correspond to the service performed by the first virtual controller on the first node; and generating an alert for the first node as an outlier node based at least in part upon the scores.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, further comprising instructions which, when stored in the memory and executed by processor causes the processor to perform an act of reporting a node ID of the at least one performance outlier node.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, further comprising instructions which, when stored in the memory and executed by the processor causes the processor to perform an act of identifying the first node or the second node as an outlier node based at least in part upon the scores even when the observation data indicate compliance of the first node with a level beyond which outliers are identified.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, further comprising instructions which, when stored in the memory and executed by the processor causes the processor to perform an act of initiating remediation pertaining to the first node.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein at least one first remediation comprises at least one of revoking a leadership role of the first node, reassigning a new leadership role to another node in the computing cluster, reassigning a portion of functions of the first node to a second node, migrating a user virtual machine on the first node to a different node, or any combination thereof.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein a delay is introduced after initiating the first remediation and before initiating a second remediation.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein at least one score of the scores is generated with a statistical technique.
19. A system, comprising: a non-transitory storage medium having stored thereon a sequence of instructions; and one or more processors that execute the instructions to cause the one or more processors to perform a set of acts, the set of acts comprising, monitoring a first node with multiple nodes of a computing cluster; gathering observation data for the first node from the multiple nodes, the observation data corresponding to a service performed by a first virtual controller on the first node in response to requests from respective virtual controllers on the multiple nodes; generating, by the multiple nodes, scores for the first node, wherein the scores correspond to the service performed by the first virtual controller on the first node; and generating an alert for the first node as an outlier node based at least in part upon the scores.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein at least one first remediation step comprises at least one of, revoking a leadership role, reassigning a new leadership role, reassigning a portion of functions of the one or more service modules, migrating a user virtual machine, or any combination thereof.
</claims>
</document>
