<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G09G5/00,G09G5/10,H04W4/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DELL PRODUCTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
AURONGZEB, DEEDER, M.
SIDDIQUI, ASIM M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70728075
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DYNAMIC BACKLIGHT AND AMBIENT LIGHT SENSOR CONTROL MANAGEMENT WITH SEMI-SUPERVISED MACHINE LEARNING FOR DIGITAL DISPLAY OPERATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method of operating or an information handling system operating a dynamic backlight and ambient light sensor (DBL and ALS) brightness control management system comprising a digital display having a selectable brightness level, a processor operatively connected to the digital display for executing code instructions of a dynamic backlight (DBL) control system for modifying brightness levels of some or all portions of the display screen in response to inputs relating to display content type and associated optimal contrast levels for the display content and the processor executing code instructions of an ambient light sensor (ALS) control system to modify brightness levels of some or all portions of the display screen in response to detected ambient light levels of the information handling system where the processor executing code instructions of the DBL and ALS brightness control management system adjusts operation of either the DBL control system or the ALS control system based on location or detected ambient light levels and wherein the adjustment to the DBL control system or the ALS control system prevents interfering impact by both systems.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information handling system operating a dynamic backlight and ambient light sensor (DBL and ALS) brightness control management system comprising: a digital display having a selectable brightness level; a processor operatively connected to the digital display for executing code instructions of a dynamic backlight (DBL) control system for modifying brightness levels of some or all portions of the display screen in response to inputs relating to display content type and associated optimal contrast levels for the display content; the processor executing code instructions of an ambient light sensor (ALS) control system to modify brightness levels of some or all portions of the display screen in response to detected ambient light levels of the information handling system; the processor executing code instructions of the DBL and ALS brightness control management system to adjust operation of either the DBL control system or the ALS control system based on location or detected ambient light levels, wherein the adjustment to the DBL control system or the ALS control system prevents interfering impact by both the DBL control system and the ALS control system on the digital display.
2. The information handling system operating the DBL and ALS brightness control management system of claim 1 wherein a gradual shift of brightness level is deployed in adjustment of operation of either the DBL control system or the ALS control system that follows a step progression of shift in brightness level.
3. The information handling system operating the DBL and ALS brightness control management system of claim 1, further comprising: DBL and ALS brightness control management system to adjust operation of the DBL control system by shutting down the DBL control system brightness adjustments upon detection of an outdoors environment via a detected ambient light level exceeding a high DBL-ALS management threshold ambient light level.
4. The information handling system operating the DBL and ALS brightness control management system of claim 1, further comprising: DBL and ALS brightness control management system to adjust operation of the DBL control system by shutting down the DBL control system brightness adjustments upon detection of an outdoors environment via a position detected by a Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS).
5. The information handling system operating the DBL and ALS brightness control management system of claim 1, further comprising: DBL and ALS brightness control management system to adjust operation of the DBL control system by gradually decreasing the DBL control system brightness adjustments upon detection of an ambient light level exceeding a first high DBL-ALS management threshold ambient light level up to shutting down the DBL control system at a high ambient light level capped threshold at which maximum display screen brightness is needed.
6. The information handling system operating the DBL and ALS brightness control management system of claim 1, further comprising: DBL and ALS brightness control management system to adjust operation of the ALS control system by shutting down the ALS control system brightness adjustments upon detection of a low light environment via a detected ambient light level falling below a low DBL-ALS management threshold ambient light level.
7. The information handling system operating the DBL and ALS brightness control management system of claim 1, further comprising: DBL and ALS brightness control management system to adjust operation of the ALS control system by gradually decreasing the ALS control system brightness adjustments upon detection of an ambient light level falling below a first low DBL-ALS management threshold ambient light level up to shutting down the ALS control system at a second at a low ambient light level capped threshold at which no further dimming is needed.
8. A method for managing dynamic backlight and ambient light sensor (DBL and ALS) brightness control of an information handling system comprising: emitting light from a digital display subject to full measures of DBL brightness control dependent upon detection of display content type for optimal contrast level; receiving an ALS input indicating a first ambient light level; determining, via a processor, the sensitivity of the ALS control system indicating ALS brightness adjustment amounts based on detected ambient light; and executing, via the processor, a DBL and ALS brightness control management system to perform a gradual shift reducing brightness control adjustment measures of the DBL control system upon the determination by the DBL and ALS brightness control management system that the information handling system is in an outdoor location.
9. The method for managing DBL and ALS brightness control of an information handling system of claim 8 wherein the gradual shift reducing brightness control adjustment measures of the DBL control system is an incremental shift at a rate of brightness steps over a duration of time that is less than a predefined noticeability rate of brightness change of the information handling system, and wherein the digital display has a fixed number of brightness steps over a display panel output range.
10. The method for managing DBL and ALS brightness control of an information handling system of claim 9 wherein the gradual shift reducing brightness control adjustment measures of the DBL control system includes a dynamic range of brightness steps to achieve complete shift based on contrast ratios needed for the detected ambient light environment.
11. The method for managing DBL and ALS brightness control of an information handling system of claim 8 wherein an ALS control system must detect the first ambient light level at least equal to or above a high DBL-ALS management threshold ambient light level indicating an outdoor location to commence the gradual shift reducing brightness control adjustment measures of the DBL control system.
12. The method for managing DBL and ALS brightness control of an information handling system of claim 10 further comprising: accessing, via the processor operating the DBL and ALS brightness control management system, a weighting matrix describing policy shifting a ratio of brightness adjustment effect between the DBL control system and the ALS control system upon commencement of the gradual shift reducing brightness control adjustment measures of the DBL control system, wherein the ratio of brightness adjustment effect between the DBL control system and the ALS control system depends on the magnitude of detected ambient light above the high DBL-ALS management threshold ambient light level.
13. The method for managing DBL and ALS brightness control of an information handling system of claim 8 wherein upon determination that the information handling system is in an outdoor location, the DBL control system weight on affecting the brightness level of the digital display screen is reduced relative to the ALS brightness control system weight affecting the brightness level.
14. The method for for managing DBL and ALS brightness control of an information handling system of claim 8 wherein the DBL and ALS brightness control management system determines an outdoor location based on a GPS location determination.
15. A computer implemented method for managing dynamic backlight and ambient light sensor (DBL and ALS) brightness control of an information handling system comprising: emitting light from a digital display subject to full measures of DBL brightness control dependent upon detection of display content type for optimal contrast level; receiving an ALS input indicating a first ambient light level; determining, via a processor, the sensitivity of the ALS control system indicating ALS brightness adjustment amounts based on detected ambient light; and executing, via the processor, a DBL and ALS brightness control management system to perform a gradual shift reducing brightness control adjustment measures of the ALS control system upon the determination by the DBL and ALS brightness control management system that the information handling system is in an environment with low ambient light conditions.
16. The method for managing DBL and ALS brightness control of an information handling system of claim 15 wherein the gradual shift reducing brightness control adjustment measures of the ALS control system is an incremental shift at a rate of brightness steps over a duration of time that is less than a predefined noticeability rate of brightness change of the information handling system, and wherein the digital display has a fixed number of brightness steps over a display panel output range.
17. The method for managing DBL and ALS brightness control of an information handling system of claim 16 further comprising: accessing, via the processor operating the DBL and ALS brightness control management system, a weighting matrix describing policy shifting a ratio of brightness adjustment effect between the ALS control system and the DBL control system upon commencement of the gradual shift reducing brightness control adjustment measures of the ALS control system, wherein the ratio of brightness adjustment effect between the DBL control system and the ALS control system depends on the magnitude of detected ambient light below a low DBL-ALS management threshold ambient light level.
18. The method for managing DBL and ALS brightness control of an information handling system of claim 15 wherein an ALS control system must detect the first ambient light level at least equal to or below a first low DBL-ALS management threshold ambient light level to commence the gradual shift reducing brightness control adjustment measures of the ALS control system.
19. The method for managing DBL and ALS brightness control of an information handling system of claim 15 wherein upon determination that the information handling system is in an indoor location, the ALS control system weight on affecting the brightness level of the digital display screen is reduced relative to the DBL brightness control system weight affecting the brightness level.
20. The method for managing DBL and ALS brightness control of an information handling system of claim 19 wherein the DBL and ALS brightness control management system determines an indoor location based on a GPS location determination.
</claims>
</document>
