<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/00,G05D1/00,G06F9/50,G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAGNA ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LU, JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60295231
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VEHICLE DRIVING ASSIST SYSTEM WITH ENHANCED DATA PROCESSING
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicular driving assistance system includes an exterior viewing camera disposed at a vehicle and an ECU disposed at the vehicle for processing captured image data to detect an object exterior of the vehicle. The ECU performs processing tasks for multiple vehicle systems, including at least (i) a headlamp control system, (ii) a collision avoidance system and (iii) a lane departure warning system. Responsive to determination at the ECU that one of the multiple vehicle systems requires safety critical processing, (i) processing for that vehicle system is determined at the ECU to be a higher priority task, (ii) the ECU performs safety critical processing for that higher priority task and (iii) lower priority processing tasks are shifted from the ECU to other processors within the vehicle so that the ECU maximizes safety critical processing for that higher priority task.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicular driving assistance system, said vehicular driving assistance system comprising: an exterior viewing camera disposed at a vehicle equipped with said vehicular driving assistance system and viewing exterior of the vehicle; wherein said exterior viewing camera comprises an imager having at least one million photosensor elements; an electronic control unit (ECU) disposed at the vehicle; wherein image data captured by said exterior viewing camera is provided to and is received at said ECU; wherein said ECU processes received captured image data to detect an object exterior of the vehicle; wherein said ECU performs processing tasks for multiple vehicle systems, the vehicle systems including at least (i) a headlamp control system of the vehicle, (ii) a collision avoidance system of the vehicle and (iii) a lane departure warning system of the vehicle; wherein processing tasks with a higher priority are determined at said ECU to be higher priority tasks and processing tasks with a lower priority are determined at said ECU to be lower priority tasks; and wherein, responsive to determination at said ECU that one of the multiple vehicle systems requires safety critical processing, (i) processing for that vehicle system is determined at said ECU to be a higher priority task, (ii) said ECU performs safety critical processing for that higher priority task and (iii) lower priority processing tasks are shifted from said ECU to other processors within the vehicle so that said ECU maximizes safety critical processing for that higher priority task.
2. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 1, wherein said ECU is operable to upload data to the cloud for processing at a remote processor.
3. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 2, wherein said ECU uploads data pertaining to at least one determined lower priority task to the cloud for processing at the remote processor.
4. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 1, wherein said ECU determines underutilized processors of the vehicle and causes at least one underutilized processor of the determined underutilized processors to process data pertaining to a determined lower priority task.
5. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 1, wherein at least one determined lower priority processing task is wirelessly communicated to a remote processor for processing at the remote processor.
6. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 5, wherein said vehicular driving assistance system receives and processes real-time data and profiles from the remote processor.
7. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 6, wherein said vehicular driving assistance system utilizes artificial intelligence engines for data analysis of the real-time data and profiles from the remote processor.
8. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 1, wherein said exterior viewing camera comprises one selected from the group consisting of (i) a forward viewing camera viewing at least forward of the vehicle and (ii) a rearward viewing camera viewing at least rearward of the vehicle.
9. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 8, wherein the safety critical processing detects the object in a predicted path of travel of the vehicle.
10. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 9, wherein said exterior viewing camera comprises a forward viewing camera viewing at least forward of the vehicle.
11. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 10, wherein the vehicle system associated with the safety critical processing comprises the collision avoidance system of the vehicle.
12. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 8, wherein said exterior viewing camera comprises a rearward viewing camera viewing at least rearward of the vehicle.
13. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 1, wherein said ECU and the other processors communicate with one another via a communication network of the vehicle.
14. A vehicular driving assistance system, said vehicular driving assistance system comprising: a forward viewing camera disposed at a windshield of a vehicle equipped with said vehicular driving assistance system and viewing at least forward of the vehicle through the windshield; wherein said forward viewing camera comprises an imager having at least one million photosensor elements; an electronic control unit (ECU) disposed at the vehicle; wherein image data captured by said forward viewing camera is provided to and is received at said ECU; wherein said ECU processes received captured image data to detect an object forward of the vehicle; wherein said ECU performs processing tasks for multiple vehicle systems, the vehicle systems including at least (i) a headlamp control system of the vehicle, (ii) a collision avoidance system of the vehicle and (iii) a lane departure warning system of the vehicle; wherein processing tasks with a higher priority are determined at said ECU to be higher priority tasks and processing tasks with a lower priority are determined at said ECU to be lower priority tasks; wherein, responsive to determination at said ECU that one of the multiple vehicle systems requires safety critical processing, (i) processing for that vehicle system is determined at said ECU to be a higher priority task, (ii) said ECU performs safety critical processing for that higher priority task and (iii) lower priority processing tasks are shifted from said ECU to other processors within the vehicle so that said ECU maximizes safety critical processing for that higher priority task; and wherein the vehicle system associated with the safety critical processing comprises the collision avoidance system of the vehicle.
15. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 14, wherein said ECU is operable to upload data to the cloud for processing at a remote processor, and wherein said ECU uploads data pertaining to at least one determined lower priority task to the cloud for processing at the remote processor.
16. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 14, wherein said ECU determines underutilized processors of the vehicle and causes at least one underutilized processor of the determined underutilized processors to process data pertaining to a determined lower priority task.
17. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 14, wherein at least one determined lower priority processing task is wirelessly communicated to a remote processor for processing at the remote processor.
18. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 14, wherein said ECU and the other processors communicate with one another via a communication network of the vehicle.
19. A vehicular driving assistance system, said vehicular driving assistance system comprising: a rearward viewing camera disposed at a vehicle equipped with said vehicular driving assistance system and viewing at least rearward of the vehicle; wherein said rearward viewing camera comprises an imager having at least one million photosensor elements; an electronic control unit (ECU) disposed at the vehicle; wherein image data captured by said rearward viewing camera is provided to and is received at said ECU; wherein said ECU processes received captured image data to detect an object rearward of the vehicle; wherein said ECU performs processing tasks for multiple vehicle systems, the vehicle systems including at least (i) a headlamp control system of the vehicle, (ii) a collision avoidance system of the vehicle and (iii) a lane departure warning system of the vehicle; wherein processing tasks with a higher priority are determined at said ECU to be higher priority tasks and processing tasks with a lower priority are determined at said ECU to be lower priority tasks; wherein, responsive to determination at said ECU that one of the multiple vehicle systems requires safety critical processing, (i) processing for that vehicle system is determined at said ECU to be a higher priority task, (ii) said ECU performs safety critical processing for that higher priority task and (iii) lower priority processing tasks are shifted from said ECU to other processors within the vehicle so that said ECU maximizes safety critical processing for that higher priority task; and wherein the safety critical processing detects the object in a predicted rearward path of travel of the vehicle during a reversing maneuver of the vehicle.
20. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 19, wherein said ECU is operable to upload data to the cloud for processing at a remote processor, and wherein said ECU uploads data pertaining to at least one determined lower priority task to the cloud for processing at the remote processor.
21. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 19, wherein said ECU determines underutilized processors of the vehicle and causes at least one underutilized processor of the determined underutilized processors to process data pertaining to a determined lower priority task.
22. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 19, wherein at least one determined lower priority processing task is wirelessly communicated to a remote processor for processing at the remote processor.
23. The vehicular driving assistance system of claim 19, wherein said ECU and the other processors communicate with one another via a communication network of the vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
