<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MADHAVAN, AJAY
SALAM, SAMER
Lele, Smruti Dilip
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72832632
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC PREFETCHING OF ONTOLOGIES BASED ON ML-BASED EXECUTION PATTERN RECOGNITION
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a device in a network obtains data indicative of one or more execution sequences of a semantic reasoner. The device trains a machine learning model to predict use of an ontology by the semantic reasoner, based on the data indicative of the one or more execution sequences of the semantic reasoner. The device predicts, using the machine learning model, use of a particular ontology by the semantic reasoner. The device prefetches the particular ontology from another device via the network, prior to the semantic reasoner completing an execution sequence that requires the particular ontology.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining, by a device in a network, data indicative of one or more execution sequences of a semantic reasoner; training, by the device, a machine learning model to predict use of an ontology by the semantic reasoner, based on the data indicative of the one or more execution sequences of the semantic reasoner; predicting, by the device and using the machine learning model, use of a particular ontology by the semantic reasoner; and prefetching, by the device, the particular ontology from another device via the network, prior to the semantic reasoner completing an execution sequence that requires the particular ontology.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the semantic reasoner is configured to determine a root cause of an issue in the network.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein the other device is part of a cloud service.
4. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: using the prefetched ontology to complete the execution sequence of the semantic reasoner.
5. The method as in claim 1, wherein training the machine learning model to predict use of an ontology by the semantic reasoner comprises: forming an execution dependency graph for the semantic reasoner, based on the obtained data indicative of the one or more execution sequences of the semantic reasoner, wherein each vertex of the execution dependency graph represents an ontology.
6. The method as in claim 5, wherein training the machine learning model to predict use of an ontology by the semantic reasoner further comprises: assigning probabilities to directed edges between vertices of the graph, each assigned probability representing a probability of the semantic reasoner transitioning from one ontology to another.
7. The method as in claim 5, wherein training the machine learning model to predict use of an ontology by the semantic reasoner further comprises: marking edges of the graph to indicate whether use of one ontology by the semantic reasoner is dependent on the semantic reasoner using another ontology.
8. The method as in claim 1, wherein the machine learning model is a perceptron-based model.
9. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with a network; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed configured to: obtain data indicative of one or more execution sequences of a semantic reasoner; train a machine learning model to predict use of an ontology by the semantic reasoner, based on the data indicative of the one or more execution sequences of the semantic reasoner; predict, using the machine learning model, use of a particular ontology by the semantic reasoner; and prefetch the particular ontology from another apparatus, prior to the semantic reasoner completing an execution sequence that requires the particular ontology.
10. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the semantic reasoner is configured to determine a root cause of an issue in the network.
11. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the other device is part of a cloud service.
12. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: use the prefetched ontology to complete the execution sequence of the semantic reasoner.
13. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the apparatus trains the machine learning model to predict use of an ontology by the semantic reasoner by: forming an execution dependency graph for the semantic reasoner, based on the obtained data indicative of the one or more execution sequences of the semantic reasoner, wherein each vertex of the execution dependency graph represents an ontology.
14. The apparatus as in claim 13, wherein the apparatus trains the machine learning model to predict use of an ontology by the semantic reasoner further by: assigning probabilities to directed edges between vertices of the graph, each assigned probability representing a probability of the semantic reasoner transitioning from one ontology to another.
15. The apparatus as in claim 13, wherein the apparatus trains the machine learning model to predict use of an ontology by the semantic reasoner by: marking edges of the graph to indicate whether use of one ontology by the semantic reasoner is dependent on the semantic reasoner using another ontology.
16. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the machine learning model is a perceptron-based model.
17. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing program instructions that cause a device in a network to execute a process comprising: obtaining, by a device in a network, data indicative of one or more execution sequences of a semantic reasoner; training, by the device, a machine learning model to predict use of an ontology by the semantic reasoner, based on the data indicative of the one or more execution sequences of the semantic reasoner; predicting, by the device and using the machine learning model, use of a particular ontology by the semantic reasoner; and prefetching, by the device, the particular ontology from another device via the network, prior to the semantic reasoner completing an execution sequence that requires the particular ontology.
18. The computer-readable medium as in claim 17, wherein the process further comprises: using the prefetched ontology to complete the execution sequence of the semantic reasoner.
19. The computer-readable medium as in claim 17, wherein training the machine learning model to predict use of an ontology by the semantic reasoner comprises: forming an execution dependency graph for the semantic reasoner, based on the obtained data indicative of the one or more execution sequences of the semantic reasoner, wherein each vertex of the execution dependency graph represents an ontology
20. The computer-readable medium as in claim 17, wherein training the machine learning model to predict use of an ontology by the semantic reasoner further comprises: assigning probabilities to directed edges between vertices of the graph, each assigned probability representing a probability of the semantic reasoner transitioning from one ontology to another.
</claims>
</document>
