<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,H04L29/08,H04W4/021,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, JINSANG
CHO, JAEKI
KAM, MINGYOUNG
KANG, JAERYONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68070471
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ARTIFICIAL DEVICE AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are an artificial device and a method for controlling the same. In the method for controlling the artificial device according to an embodiment of the present specification, source data for creating a profile of a user is acquired and a cluster including location information of the user and data on an event associated with the location information is created. In addition, the profile of the user is created by using the cluster, and region of interest (ROI) data is generated based on the profile of the user. According to the method, the ROI data including information on a region of interest to the user may be generated. The intelligent device of the present disclosure can be associated with artificial intelligence modules, drones (unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs)), robots, augmented reality (AR) devices, virtual reality (VR) devices, devices related to 5G service, etc.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for controlling an artificial intelligence device, the method comprising: acquiring source data from at least one user terminal of a user; generating, based on the source data, a cluster composed of location information of the user and data of one or more events associated with the location information; generating a profile of the user by analyzing the cluster; and generating region of interest (ROI) data by setting a geographic region in which the user is interested based on the profile of the user, wherein generating ROI data comprises performing a labeling operation based on the profile of the user in the geographic region.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the profile of the user comprises generating the profile of the user as output of a trained artificial neural network model, wherein input of the artificial neural network model is a feature value extracted from the cluster.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: acquiring the location information of the user and the data of the one or more events based on occurrence of the one or more events, wherein the one or more events comprise receiving a message through a user terminal, photographing, or staying in a place for a predetermined time.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: adding the data of the one or more events to temporary point data that corresponds to the location information of the user based on a visit history of the user that is related to the location information of the user, wherein the temporary point data is clustered by the artificial intelligence device.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: generating temporary point data that corresponds to the location information of the user and adding the data of the one or more events to the temporary point data based on absence of the visit history of the user.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining labeling data for generating the ROI data based on the profile of the user, wherein the labeling data is extracted as keywords for data types of the one or more events.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: storing temporary point data that corresponds to the location information of the user based on a failure to acquire the labeling data, wherein the ROI data is generated based on the labeling data being acquired.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the ROI data is generated and corresponds to the location information of the user based on absence of the ROI data associated with the location information of the user.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the ROI data comprises region data for a predetermined region that includes the location information of the user.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the region data comprises a latitude, a longitude, and a range to identify the predetermined region.
11. The method of claim 6, wherein the labeling data is generated as output of a trained artificial neural network model, wherein input of the artificial neural network is a feature value extracted from the profile of the user, and wherein the feature value is keyword information included in the profile of the user.
12. An artificial intelligence device, comprising: a memory; a display; and a processor, wherein the processor is configured to: acquire source data from at least one user terminal of a user; generate, based on the source data, a cluster composed of location information of the user and data of one or more events associated with the location information; generate a profile of the user by analyzing the cluster; and generate region of interest (ROI) data by setting a geographic region in which the user is interested, based on the profile of the user, and wherein generating ROI data comprises performing a labeling operation based on the profile of the user in the geographic region.
13. The artificial intelligence device of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to generate the profile of the user as output of a trained artificial neural network model, and wherein input of the artificial neural network model is a feature value extracted from the cluster.
14. The artificial intelligence device of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to: acquire the location information of the user and the data of the one or more events based on occurrence of the one or more events, and wherein the one or more events comprise receiving a message through a user terminal, photographing, or staying in a place for a predetermined time.
15. The artificial intelligence device of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: add the data of the one or more events to temporary point data that corresponds to the location information of the user, based on a visit history of the user that is related to the location information of the user, and wherein the temporary point data is clustered by the artificial intelligence device.
16. The artificial intelligence device of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to generate temporary point data that corresponds to the location information of the user and adding the data of the one or more events to the temporary point data, based on absence of the visit history of the user.
17. The artificial intelligence device of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to obtain labeling data for generating the ROI data based on the profile of the user, and wherein the labeling data is extracted as keywords for data types of the one or more events.
18. The artificial intelligence device of claim 17, wherein the processor is further configured to store temporary point data that corresponds to the location information of the user based on a failure to acquire the labeling data, and wherein the ROI data is generated based on the ROI data associated with the location information of the user being not exist.
19. The artificial intelligence device of claim 12, wherein the ROI data is generated and corresponds to the location information of the user, based on absence of the ROI data associated with the location information of the user.
20. The artificial intelligence device of claim 12, wherein the ROI data comprises region data for a predetermined region that includes the location information of the user.
</claims>
</document>
