<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F12/1045,G06F15/173,H04L12/879,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MARVELL INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
FUREY SCOTT
MIZRAHI, NOAM
VARNICA, NEDELJKO
SHRIVASTAVA, MANISH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65520347
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
STORAGE AGGREGATOR CONTROLLER WITH METADATA COMPUTATION CONTROL
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure describes a storage aggregator controller with metadata computation control. The storage aggregator controller communicates, via a host interface, over a computer network with one or more remote hosts, and also communicates, via a storage device interface, with a plurality of local storage devices, which are separate from the remote host(s) and which have respective non-volatile memories. The storage aggregator controller manages the local storage devices for storage or retrieval of media objects. The storage aggregator controller also governs a selective computation, at aggregator control circuitry or at a storage device controller of one or more of the storage devices, of metadata that defines content characteristics of the media objects that are retrieved from the plurality of storage devices or that are received from the one or more hosts over the computer network for storage in the plurality of storage devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A storage aggregator controller, comprising: a host interface configured to communicate over a computer network with one or more remote hosts; a storage device interface, configured to communicate locally with a plurality of local storage devices, separate from the one or more remote hosts, the storage devices having respective non-volatile memories; and aggregator control circuitry, configured to: manage the plurality of local storage devices for storage or retrieval of media objects, the plurality of storage devices coupled to the storage device interface, the aggregator control circuitry configured to present to the one or more remote hosts an abstracted logical address space that is mapped to a combination of physical address spaces of the plurality of storage devices, wherein the mapping of the abstracted logical address space to the physical address spaces is adjustable; and govern a selective computation, at the aggregator control circuitry or at a storage device controller of one or more of the storage devices, of metadata that defines content characteristics of the media objects that are retrieved from the plurality of storage devices or that are received from the one or more hosts over the computer network for storage in the plurality of storage devices.
2. The storage aggregator controller of claim 1, wherein the aggregator control circuitry is further configured to control an order by which media objects are retrieved from the plurality of storage devices and processed to compute metadata.
3. The storage aggregator controller of claim 1, wherein the aggregator control circuitry is further configured to selectively control whether the metadata is computed by the storage device controller of any single storage device, by storage device controllers of a plurality of storage devices, or by a combination of the aggregator control circuitry and storage device controllers of one or more storage devices.
4. The storage aggregator controller of claim 1, wherein the aggregator control circuitry is further configured to cause the storage device controller of a specific storage device, from among the plurality of storage devices, to compute metadata with respect to a segment of a media object that is stored in the specific storage device.
5. The storage aggregator controller of claim 1, wherein the aggregator control circuitry is further configured to: identify an idle storage device controller of one or more storage devices that is presently not busy executing a storage related read operation or write operation; and select the identified idle storage device controller to compute metadata based on media objects or media object segments stored in one or more of the plurality of storage devices.
6. The storage aggregator controller of claim 1, wherein the aggregator control circuitry is further configured to apportion a processing load for computing metadata of media objects among the aggregator control circuitry and storage device controllers of one or more of the plurality of storage devices.
7. The storage aggregator controller of claim 1, wherein a media object is stored in segments distributed among respective ones of the plurality of storage devices, the aggregator control circuitry being further configured to: cause a plurality of storage device controllers of the plurality of storage devices, respectively, to compute portions of metadata for the segments of the media object that are stored locally at the respective storage device, and store the portions of computed metadata at the respective storage device; obtain the computed portions of metadata from the plurality of storage devices; and combine the computed portions of metadata into combined metadata corresponding to the media object.
8. The storage aggregator controller of claim 1, wherein the aggregator control circuitry is further configured to: retrieve segments of a media object from separate storage devices from among the plurality of storage devices that are aggregated by the storage aggregator controller; and compute metadata for the retrieved segments of the media object.
9. The storage aggregator controller of claim 1, wherein the aggregator control circuitry is further configured to cause computed metadata to be stored in separate segments distributed among the plurality of storage devices.
10. The storage aggregator controller of claim 1, wherein the aggregator control circuitry is further configured to: receive a read instruction or a write instruction from the one or more hosts over the computer network; and in response to the receiving, pause metadata computation at one or more of the aggregator control circuitry and storage device controller to which the read or write instruction is targeted, and continue metadata computation at least at the aggregator control circuitry or at a storage controller that is controlled by the aggregator control circuitry and that is idle from performing any read or write instructions.
11. A method for managing local storage devices and metadata computation, comprising: communicating, via a host interface, over a computer network with one or more remote hosts; communicating, via a storage device interface, locally with a plurality of local storage devices, separate from the one or more remote hosts, the storage devices having respective non-volatile memories; managing the plurality of local storage devices for storage or retrieval of media objects, the plurality of storage devices coupled to the storage device interface; presenting to the one or more remote hosts an abstracted logical address space that is mapped to a combination of physical address spaces of the plurality of storage devices, wherein the mapping of the abstracted logical address space to the physical address spaces is adjustable; and governing a selective computation, at aggregator control circuitry or at a storage device controller of one or more of the storage devices, of metadata that defines content characteristics of the media objects that are retrieved from the plurality of storage devices or that are received from the one or more hosts over the computer network for storage in the plurality of storage devices.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising controlling an order by which media objects are retrieved from the plurality of storage devices and processed to compute metadata.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising selectively controlling whether the metadata is computed by the storage device controller of any single storage device, by storage device controllers of a plurality of storage devices, or by a combination of the aggregator control circuitry and storage device controllers of one or more of the storage devices.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising causing the storage device controller of a specific storage device, from among the plurality of storage devices, to compute metadata with respect to a segment of a media object that is stored in the specific storage device.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying an idle storage device controller of one or more storage devices that is presently not busy executing a storage related read operation or write operation; and selecting the identified idle storage device controller to compute metadata based on media objects or media object segments stored in one or more of the plurality of storage devices.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising apportioning a processing load for computing metadata of media objects among the aggregator control circuitry and storage device controllers of one or more of the plurality of storage devices.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein a media object is stored in segments distributed among respective ones of the plurality of storage devices, and the method further comprises: causing a plurality of storage device controllers of the plurality of storage devices, respectively, to compute portions of metadata for the segments of the media object that are stored locally at the respective storage device, and store the portions of computed metadata at the respective storage device; obtaining the computed portions of metadata from the plurality of storage devices; and combining the computed portions of metadata into combined metadata corresponding to the media object.
18. The method of claim 11, further comprising: retrieving segments of a media object from separate storage devices from among the plurality of storage devices that are aggregated by the storage aggregator controller; and computing metadata for the retrieved segments of the media object.
19. The method of claim 11, further comprising causing computed metadata to be stored in separate segments distributed among the plurality of storage devices.
20. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving a read instruction or a write instruction from the one or more hosts over the computer network; and in response to the receiving, pausing metadata computation at one or more of the aggregator control circuitry and storage device controller to which the read or write instruction is targeted, and continuing metadata computation at least at the aggregator control circuitry or at a storage controller that is controlled by the aggregator control circuitry and that is idle from performing any read or write instructions.
</claims>
</document>
