<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01V9/00,H04W24/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COGNITIVE SYSTEMS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
MANKU, TAJINDER
Beg, Christopher
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72664099
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Controlling measurement rates in wireless sensing systems
</title>

<abstract>
In a general aspect, motion is detected using wireless signals. In an example, in response to a first series of sampling instructions asserted at a first sampling rate in a wireless sensing system, a first series of requests is sent for a wireless communication device to transmit a first series of wireless signals. The first series of wireless signals is received and motion detection output data is obtained based on the first series of wireless signals. A rate at which sampling instructions are asserted is changed from the first sampling rate to a second, different sampling rate based on the motion detection output data. In response to a second series of sampling instructions asserted at the second sampling rate in the wireless sensing system, a second series of requests is sent for the wireless communication device to transmit a second series of wireless signals.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: in response to a first series of sampling instructions asserted at a first sampling rate in a wireless sensing system, sending a first series of requests for a wireless communication device to transmit a first series of wireless signals; receiving the first series of wireless signals transmitted by the wireless communication device in response to the first series of requests; obtaining motion detection output data representing a degree of motion detected by the wireless sensing system based on the first series of wireless signals; changing a rate at which sampling instructions are asserted from the first sampling rate to a second, different sampling rate based on the motion detection output data, wherein changing the rate comprises generating a rate control signal indicative of the second sampling rate; and in response to a second series of sampling instructions asserted at the second sampling rate in the wireless sensing system, sending a second series of requests for the wireless communication device to transmit a second series of wireless signals.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second series of sampling instructions each include a device identifier indicative of an identity of the wireless communication device.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein at least one of the first series of requests, the second series of requests, the motion detection output data, or the rate control signal includes the device identifier.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second series of sampling instructions are asserted in response to an indication that the wireless communication device is available to participate in motion detection.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the rate control signal is generated based on one or more parameters, the one or more parameters comprising at least one of: a maximum value for the first sampling rate; a maximum value for the second sampling rate; a minimum value for the first sampling rate; a minimum value for the second sampling rate; or at least one time constant indicative of a difference between the first and second sampling rates.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second series of wireless signals are transmitted by the wireless communication device in a wireless network, and wherein the wireless communication device and at least one other wireless communication device are configured to communicate in the wireless network.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the one or more parameters are device-specific parameters applicable to the wireless communication device and not to the at least one other wireless communication device.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the one or more parameters are global parameters applicable to the wireless communication device and to the at least one other wireless communication device.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the motion detection output data is indicative of a decrease in the degree of motion in a space interrogated by the first series of wireless signals, and wherein the second sampling rate is less than the first sampling rate.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the motion detection output data is indicative of an increase in the degree of motion in a space interrogated by the first series of wireless signals, and wherein the second sampling rate is greater than the first sampling rate.
11. A wireless communication device comprising: a processor; and a memory comprising instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the wireless communication device to perform operations comprising: in response to a first series of sampling instructions asserted at a first sampling rate in a wireless sensing system, sending a first series of requests for the wireless communication device to transmit a first series of wireless signals; receiving the first series of wireless signals transmitted by the wireless communication device in response to the first series of requests; obtaining motion detection output data representing a degree of motion detected by the wireless sensing system based on the first series of wireless signals; changing a rate at which sampling instructions are asserted from the first sampling rate to a second, different sampling rate based on the motion detection output data, wherein changing the rate comprises generating a rate control signal indicative of the second sampling rate; and in response to a second series of sampling instructions asserted at the second sampling rate in the wireless sensing system, sending a second series of requests for the wireless communication device to transmit a second series of wireless signals.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the first and second series of sampling instructions each include a device identifier indicative of an identity of the wireless communication device.
13. The device of claim 12, wherein at least one of the first series of requests, the second series of requests, the motion detection output data, or the rate control signal includes the device identifier.
14. The device of claim 11, wherein the first and second series of sampling instructions are asserted in response to an indication that the wireless communication device is available to participate in motion detection.
15. The device of claim 11, wherein the rate control signal is generated based on one or more parameters, the one or more parameters comprising at least one of: a maximum value for the first sampling rate; a maximum value for the second sampling rate; a minimum value for the first sampling rate; a minimum value for the second sampling rate; or at least one time constant indicative of a difference between the first and second sampling rates.
16. The device of claim 11, wherein the first and second series of wireless signals are transmitted by the wireless communication device in a wireless network, and wherein the wireless communication device and at least one other wireless communication device are configured to communicate in the wireless network.
17. The device of claim 15, wherein the one or more parameters are device-specific parameters applicable to the wireless communication device and not to the at least one other wireless communication device.
18. The device of claim 15, wherein the one or more parameters are global parameters applicable to the wireless communication device and to the at least one other wireless communication device.
19. The device of claim 11, wherein the motion detection output data is indicative of a decrease in the degree of motion in a space interrogated by the first series of wireless signals, and wherein the second sampling rate is less than the first sampling rate.
20. The device of claim 11, wherein the motion detection output data is indicative of an increase in the degree of motion in a space interrogated by the first series of wireless signals, and wherein the second sampling rate is greater than the first sampling rate.
21. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by data processing apparatus, perform operations comprising: in response to a first series of sampling instructions asserted at a first sampling rate in a wireless sensing system, sending a first series of requests for a wireless communication device to transmit a first series of wireless signals; receiving the first series of wireless signals transmitted by the wireless communication device in response to the first series of requests; obtaining motion detection output data representing a degree of motion detected by the wireless sensing system based on the first series of wireless signals; changing a rate at which sampling instructions are asserted from the first sampling rate to a second, different sampling rate based on the motion detection output data, wherein changing the rate comprises generating a rate control signal indicative of the second sampling rate; and in response to a second series of sampling instructions asserted at the second sampling rate in the wireless sensing system, sending a second series of requests for the wireless communication device to transmit a second series of wireless signals.
22. The computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the first and second series of sampling instructions each include a device identifier indicative of an identity of the wireless communication device.
23. The computer-readable medium of claim 22, wherein at least one of the first series of requests, the second series of requests, the motion detection output data, or the rate control signal includes the device identifier.
24. The computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the first and second series of sampling instructions are asserted in response to an indication that the wireless communication device is available to participate in motion detection.
25. The computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the rate control signal is generated based on one or more parameters, the one or more parameters comprising at least one of: a maximum value for the first sampling rate; a maximum value for the second sampling rate; a minimum value for the first sampling rate; a minimum value for the second sampling rate; or at least one time constant indicative of a difference between the first and second sampling rates.
26. The computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the first and second series of wireless signals are transmitted by the wireless communication device in a wireless network, and wherein the wireless communication device and at least one other wireless communication device are configured to communicate in the wireless network.
27. The computer-readable medium of claim 25, wherein the one or more parameters are device-specific parameters applicable to the wireless communication device and not to the at least one other wireless communication device.
28. The computer-readable medium of claim 25, wherein the one or more parameters are global parameters applicable to the wireless communication device and to the at least one other wireless communication device.
29. The computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the motion detection output data is indicative of a decrease in the degree of motion in a space interrogated by the first series of wireless signals, and wherein the second sampling rate is less than the first sampling rate.
30. The computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the motion detection output data is indicative of an increase in the degree of motion in a space interrogated by the first series of wireless signals, and wherein the second sampling rate is greater than the first sampling rate.
</claims>
</document>
