<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60P3/073,B60R11/04,B62D21/15,G05D1/00,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Atnomity Ltd.
</assignee>

<inventors>
THIEBERGER,GIL
FRANK, ARI M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606658
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Unmanned carrier for carrying urban manned vehicles
</title>

<abstract>
One embodiment of an unmanned carrier for carrying urban manned vehicles includes a computer, a motorized lift, an autonomous-driving control system, and a safety frame. The computer synchronizes pick-up of manned vehicles by the unmanned carrier; wherein each manned vehicle is an autonomous on-road vehicle that transports one or more occupants in a compartment, is authorized by law to drive in a residential neighborhood, and is unauthorized by law to drive on the highway on its own because it is not safe enough for highway speed. The motorized lift enables the manned vehicles to get on and get off the unmanned carrier without human intervention. The autonomous-driving control system navigates the unmanned carrier autonomously on a highway. And the safety frame protects the occupants who sit in the carried manned vehicles during a collision at highway speed.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. An unmanned carrier for carrying urban manned vehicles, comprising: a computer configured to synchronize pick-up of manned vehicles by the unmanned carrier; wherein each manned vehicle is an autonomous on-road vehicle that is configured to transport at least one occupant in a compartment, is authorized by law to drive in a residential neighborhood, and is unauthorized by law to drive on the highway on its own because it is not safe enough for highway speed; a motorized lift configured to enable the manned vehicles to get on and get off the unmanned carrier without human intervention; an autonomous-driving control system configured to navigate the unmanned carrier autonomously on a highway; and a safety frame configured to protect the occupants who sit in the carried manned vehicles during a collision at highway speed.
2. The unmanned carrier of claim 1, wherein the motorized lift forms part of the safety frame, and the safety frame comprises a safety cage configured to hold the manned vehicles on the unmanned carrier during collision at highway speed.
3. The unmanned carrier of claim 2, wherein the safety cage is made of a stiff material configured to resist deformation during collision in order to reduce intrusion into the compartments of the carried manned vehicles, and the safety frame comprises at least one rollover hoop.
4. The unmanned carrier of claim 1, wherein the safety frame comprises a crumple zone having volume above 20 liters.
5. The unmanned carrier of claim 1, wherein the safety frame comprises a rear crumple zone, located beyond the last carried manned vehicle, and configured to absorb energy of a rear collision; wherein the rear crumple zone is more effective than crumple zones of the manned vehicles carried by the unmanned carrier.
6. The unmanned carrier of claim 1, wherein the safety frame comprises a front crumple zone, located before the front carried manned vehicle, and configured to absorb energy of a front collision; wherein the front crumple zone is more effective than crumple zones of the manned vehicles carried by the unmanned carrier.
7. The unmanned carrier of claim 1, wherein the safety frame comprises a side crumple zone, located to the size of at least one of the carried manned vehicles, and configured to absorb energy of a side collision.
8. The unmanned carrier of claim 1, wherein each manned vehicle weighs below 200 kg and utilizes a battery that is enough to travel less than 50 kilometers.
9. The unmanned carrier of claim 1, wherein each manned vehicle is configured to transport at least one human occupant, is able to drive on its own not faster than 70 km/h, and does not have an automotive safety cage configured to sustain collision at highway speeds.
10. The unmanned carrier of claim 1, wherein the unmanned carrier further comprises a platform configured to carry the manned vehicles on the unmanned carrier such that wheels of the manned vehicles do not touch the road while the manned vehicles are carried by the unmanned carrier.
11. The unmanned carrier of claim 1, wherein the manned vehicles, carried by unmanned carrier, are designed for urban drive and not suitable for highway speed, which reduces the cost of the manned vehicles compared to similar manned vehicles designed for highway speed.
12. The unmanned carrier of claim 1, wherein the unmanned carrier further comprises a first video camera mounted to the unmanned carrier, and a video communication link configured to stream video, taken by the first video camera, to a computer configured to provide an occupant of the manned vehicle a video see through based on the video taken by the first video camera.
13. The unmanned carrier of claim 12, wherein the unmanned carrier further comprises a second video camera mounted to the manned vehicle; wherein the computer is further configured to provide the occupant a video see through based on the video taken by the second video camera after the manned vehicle gets off the unmanned carrier.
14. The unmanned carrier of claim 1, wherein the unmanned carrier does not have a compartment configured to transport a human occupant; and the unmanned carrier powers the carried manned vehicles utilizing conductive coupling.
15. A transportation system, comprising: autonomous on-road manned vehicles, each configured to transport at least one occupant in a compartment, is authorized by law to drive in a residential neighborhood, and is unauthorized by law to drive on a highway on its own because it is not safe enough for highway speed; an unmanned carrier configured to carry at least two of the manned vehicles on the highway, while the occupants stay in the manned vehicles; wherein the unmanned carrier comprises a safety mechanism configured to improve survivability of the occupants to a collision at an interurban speed above 90 km/h; and a computer configured to synchronize pick-up of the manned vehicles by the unmanned carrier; wherein the pick-up is performed without human intervention utilizing a motorized lift that is coupled to the unmanned carrier and is configured to enable the manned vehicles to get on and get off the unmanned carrier.
16. The transportation system of claim 15, wherein the manned vehicle comprises collision safety mechanisms designed for an urban speed collision, and has tare weight of less than 500 kg without batteries.
17. The transportation system of claim 15, wherein the safety mechanism comprises a safety frame; the safety frame is configured to open when the manned vehicles get on the unmanned carrier, then configured to close in order to protect the manned vehicles while traveling, and then configured to open to enable the manned vehicles get off the unmanned carrier.
18. The transportation system of claim 15, wherein each manned vehicle comprises an automatic latch configured to fix the manned vehicle to the unmanned carrier during drive.
19. An unmanned carrier for carrying manned vehicles, comprising: an engine configured to drive wheels; a platform sufficient to accommodate at least two manned vehicles, wherein each manned vehicle is an autonomous on-road vehicle configured to transport at least one occupant; front and rear lifts from which the manned vehicles can get on the carrier and get off the carrier; and automatic latches configured to fix the manned vehicles to the platform while in transit.
20. The transportation system of claim 15, wherein the wheels are located alongside of the platform, such that the top of at least one of the wheels is above point of contact between the platform and a wheel of one of the manned vehicles fixed to the platform; the unmanned carrier does not have a compartment configured to transport a human occupant; and the front and rear lifts are hydraulic lifts configured to act as collision safety barriers for the carried manned vehicles.
</claims>
</document>
