<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-07-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B07C5/34,B07C5/342
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UHV TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUMAR, NALIN
GARCIA, JR., MANUEL GERARDO
MAUN, ISHA KAMLESHBHAI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67541962
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METAL SORTER
</title>

<abstract>
A material sorting system sorts materials utilizing a vision system that implements a machine learning system in order to identify or classify each of the materials, which are then sorted into separate groups based on such an identification or classification determining that the materials are composed of either wrought aluminum, extruded aluminum, or cast aluminum.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for classifying and sorting a first mixture of materials comprising extruded aluminum scrap pieces and cast aluminum scrap pieces, the system comprising: an image capturing device configured to produce image data of the first mixture of materials comprising extruded aluminum scrap pieces and cast aluminum scrap pieces; a conveyor system configured to convey the first mixture past the image capturing device; a data processing system comprising a machine learning system configured to classify certain ones of the first mixture as extruded aluminum scrap pieces based on the image data of the first mixture, wherein the classifying of certain ones of the first mixture is based on a first knowledge base containing a previously generated library of observed characteristics captured from a homogenous set of samples of extruded aluminum scrap pieces; and a sorter configured to sort the classified certain ones of the first mixture from the first mixture as a function of the classifying of certain ones of the first mixture.
2. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the library of observed characteristics were captured by a camera configured to capture images of the homogenous set of samples of the extruded aluminum scrap pieces as they were conveyed past the camera.
3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the image capturing device is a camera configured to capture visual images of the first mixture of materials comprising extruded aluminum scrap pieces and cast aluminum scrap pieces to produce the image data, and wherein the observed characteristics are visually observed characteristics.
4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the sorting by the sorter of the classified certain ones of the first mixture from the first mixture produces a second mixture of materials that comprises the first mixture minus the classified certain ones of the first mixture, wherein the second mixture of materials has a composition of metals appropriate for manufacturing cast aluminum parts.
5. (canceled)
6. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the machine learning system comprises an artificial intelligence neural network.
7. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the classifying of certain ones of the first mixture is based on a comparison of the first knowledge base to a second knowledge base containing a previously generated library of observed characteristics captured from a homogenous set of samples of cast aluminum scrap pieces.
8. A method for classifying and sorting a first mixture of materials comprising extruded aluminum scrap pieces and cast aluminum scrap pieces, the method comprising: producing image data of the first mixture of materials comprising extruded aluminum scrap pieces and cast aluminum scrap pieces; assigning with a machine learning system a first classification to certain ones of the first mixture of materials as extruded aluminum scrap pieces based on the image data of the first mixture, wherein the first classification is based on a first knowledge base containing a previously generated library of observed characteristics captured from a homogenous set of samples of extruded aluminum scrap pieces; and sorting the certain ones of the first mixture of materials from the first mixture as a function of the first classification.
9. The method as recited in claim 8, further comprising conveying the first mixture of materials past an image capturing device configured to produce the image data.
10. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein the library of observed characteristics were captured by a camera configured to capture images of the homogenous set of samples of the extruded aluminum scrap pieces as they were conveyed past the camera.
11. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein the image capturing device is a camera configured to capture visual images of the first mixture of materials to produce the image data, and wherein the observed characteristics are visually observed characteristics.
12. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein the sorting produces a second mixture of materials that comprises the first mixture of materials minus the sorted certain ones of the first mixture of materials, the method further comprising melting the second mixture to produce a metal composition appropriate for manufacturing into cast aluminum parts.
13. (canceled)
14. The method as recited in claim 18, wherein the machine learning system comprises an artificial intelligence neural network.
15. 15.-20. (canceled)
21. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the system is configured to sort the extruded aluminum scrap pieces from the cast aluminum scrap pieces based on the classifying of certain ones of the first mixture as extruded aluminum scrap pieces.
22. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the system is configured to sort the first mixture without use of x-ray spectroscopy to analyze compositions of the materials.
23. A computer program product stored on a computer readable storage medium, which when executed by a data processing system, performs a process for classifying materials, comprising: receiving visual image data of each piece of a collection of materials comprising pieces that are extruded and/or wrought aluminum scrap pieces and pieces that are cast aluminum scrap pieces; classifying certain pieces of the collection of materials as extruded and/or wrought aluminum scrap pieces as a function of visual characteristics captured from the visual image data, wherein the visual characteristics are unique to extruded and/or wrought aluminum scrap pieces; and classifying a remainder of the pieces of the collection of materials as cast aluminum scrap pieces.
24. The computer program product as recited in claim 23, wherein the computer readable storage medium, which when executed, comprises sending to an automated sorting device information regarding the classifications used by the automated sorting device to sort the certain pieces classified as extruded and/or wrought aluminum scrap pieces from the remainder of pieces classified as cast aluminum scrap pieces.
25. The computer program product as recited in claim 23, wherein the computer program product comprises a machine learning system implementing one or more machine learning algorithms configured to classify the collection of materials, wherein the one or more machine learning algorithms have been previously trained to recognize the visual characteristics unique to extruded and/or wrought aluminum scrap pieces.
26. The computer program product as recited in claim 25, wherein the one or more machine learning algorithms are configured to perform the classifying of the collection of materials as a function of a knowledge base of parameters configured during a training stage to recognize the visual characteristics unique to extruded and/or wrought aluminum scrap pieces, wherein the training stage comprises processing a control sample of a plurality of extruded and/or wrought aluminum scrap pieces in order to create the knowledge base.
27. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the system is configured to classify the first mixture of materials without use of x-ray spectroscopy to analyze compositions of the materials.
</claims>
</document>
