<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
RODRIGUEZ, RAPHAEL A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59959648
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
STORING ANONYMIZED IDENTIFIERS INSTEAD OF PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure describes methods and systems for handling personally identifiable information. In some implementations, the information is collected during the authentication of identification (ID) documents. The system includes a one-way hashing function that converts unique personal identifiable information into a unique digest. The system can store the digest without having to store the personal identifiable information. Because the hashing function generates the same digest when given the same input, the digests can be used as anonymized identifiers in place of the personal identifiable information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining authenticity of physical identification documents, the method comprising: receiving an image of a physical identification document, the physical identification document comprising a set of characteristics identifying a person that the physical identification document identifies; extracting the set of characteristics from the physical identification document; applying a hash function to the set of characteristics to generate a digest; determining that the physical identification document was previously authenticated in accordance with looking up the digest in a digest table of previously authenticated physical identification documents; and providing an indication that the physical identification document is authentic based at least on a confidence score from the digest table corresponding to the physical identification document being greater than a predetermined threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of characteristics of the physical identification document is a first set of characteristics and the digest is a first digest, and the method further comprises extracting a second set of characteristics of the physical identification document, the second set of characteristics identifying a class of the physical identification document.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein extracting the second set of characteristics comprises extracting one or more of: (i) a size of the physical identification document, (ii) a location of a text block on the physical identification document, (iii) a location of a barcode on the physical identification document, (iv) an aspect ratio of a barcode on the physical identification document, and (v) a size of a barcode on the physical identification document.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising applying the hash function to the second set of characteristics to generate a second digest, wherein: determining that the physical identification document was previously authenticated is further in accordance with looking up the second digest in the digest table of previously authenticated physical identification documents; and providing an indication that the physical identification document is authentic is further based at least on a composite confidence score from the digest table corresponding to the physical identification document being greater than a predetermined threshold for each of the first and second digests.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: splitting the set of characteristics of the physical identification document into a plurality of different tiers based on a likelihood that information for the characteristics will change over time, wherein each of the plurality of tiers is associated with a respective reliability score.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising applying the hash function to each of the tiers to generate respective digests, wherein: determining that the physical identification document was previously authenticated is further in accordance with looking up the respective digests in the digest table of previously authenticated physical identification documents; and providing an indication that the physical identification document is authentic is further based on respective confidence scores from the digest table being greater than a predetermined threshold for each of the respective digests.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising computing a composite confidence score as a weighted average of the reliability scores of the plurality of tiers, wherein providing an indication that the physical identification document is authentic is based on the composite confidence score.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting the set of characteristics comprises extracting one or more of a name, an address, a social security number, an identification number, banking information, a date of birth, a driver's license number, an account number, financial information, transcript information, an ethnicity, arrest records, health information, medical information, email addresses, phone numbers, web addresses, IP numbers, or photographic data associated with the person.
9. A system for determining authenticity of physical identification documents comprises a processor and a memory device, the processor executing an authentication manager, the authentication manager configured to: receive an image of a physical identification document to be authenticated, the physical identification document comprising a set of characteristics identifying a person that the physical identification document identifies; extract the set of characteristics from the physical identification document; apply a hash function to the set of characteristics to generate a digest; determine that the physical identification document was previously authenticated in accordance with looking up the digest in a digest table of previously authenticated physical identification documents; and provide an indication that the physical identification document is authentic based at least on a confidence score from the digest table corresponding to the physical identification document being greater than a predetermined threshold.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the set of characteristics of the physical identification document is a first set of characteristics and the digest is a first digest, and the authentication manager is further configured to extract a second set of characteristics of the physical identification document, the second set of characteristics identifying a class of the physical identification document.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein extracting the second set of characteristics comprises extracting one or more of: (i) a size of the physical identification document, (ii) a location of a text block on the physical identification document, (iii) a location of a barcode on the physical identification document, (iv) an aspect ratio of a barcode on the physical identification document, and (v) a size of a barcode on the physical identification document.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the authentication manager is further configured to: apply a hash function to the second set of characteristics to generate a second digest; determine that the physical identification document was previously authenticated in accordance with looking up the second digest in the digest table of previously authenticated physical identification documents; and provide an indication that the physical identification document is authentic based at least on a composite confidence score from the digest table corresponding to the physical identification document being greater than a predetermined threshold for both the first and second digests.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the authentication manager is further configured to split the set of characteristics of the physical identification document into a plurality of tiers based on a likelihood that information for the characteristics will change over time, wherein each of the plurality of tiers is associated with a respective reliability score.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the authentication manager is further configured to apply the hash function to each of the tiers to generate respective digests, wherein: determining that the physical identification document was previously authenticated is further in accordance with looking up the respective digests in the digest table of previously authenticated physical identification documents; and providing an indication that the physical identification document is authentic is further based on respective confidence scores from the digest table being greater than a predetermined threshold for each of the respective digests.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the authentication manager is further configured to compute a composite confidence as a weighted average of the reliability scores of the plurality of tiers, wherein providing the indication that the physical identification document is authentic is based on the composite confidence score.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the authentication manager is configured to extract the set of characteristics comprising one or more of a name, an address, a social security number, an identification number, banking information, a date of birth, a driver's license number, an account number, financial information, transcript information, an ethnicity, arrest records, health information, medical information, email addresses, phone numbers, web addresses, IP numbers, or photographic data associated with the person.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs configured for execution by one or more processors, the one or more programs comprising instructions for: receiving an image of a physical identification document, the physical identification document comprising a set of characteristics identifying a person that the physical identification document identifies; extracting the set of characteristics from the physical identification document; applying a hash function to the set of characteristics to generate a digest; determining that the physical identification document was previously authenticated in accordance with looking up the digest in a digest table of previously authenticated physical identification documents; and providing an indication that the physical identification document is authentic based at least on a confidence score from the digest table corresponding to the physical identification document being greater than a predetermined threshold.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the one or more programs further comprise instructions for splitting the set of characteristics of the physical identification document into a plurality of different tiers based on a likelihood that information for the characteristics will change over time, wherein each of the plurality of tiers is associated with a respective reliability score.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the one or more programs further comprise instructions for applying the hash function to each of the tiers to generate respective digests, wherein: determining that the physical identification document was previously authenticated is further in accordance with looking up the respective digests in the digest table of previously authenticated physical identification documents; and providing an indication that the physical identification document is authentic is further based on respective confidence scores from the digest table being greater than a predetermined threshold for each of the respective digests.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the one or more programs further comprise instructions for computing a composite confidence score as a weighted average of the reliability scores of the plurality of tiers, wherein providing an indication that the physical identification document is authentic is based on the composite confidence score.
</claims>
</document>
