<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/6809,C12Q1/6869,G16B20/10,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHINESE UNIVERSITY OF HONG KONG
GRAIL
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHIU, ROSSA WAI KWUN
JIANG, PEIYONG
LO, YUK MING DENNIS
SUN, KUN
CHAN, KWAN CHEE
CHAN, WING YAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71099178
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CELL-FREE DNA END CHARACTERISTICS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure describes techniques for measuring quantities (e.g., relative frequencies) of sequence end motifs of cell-free DNA fragments in a biological sample of an organism for measuring a property of the sample (e.g., fractional concentration of clinically-relevant DNA) and/or determining a condition of the organism based on such measurements. Different tissue types exhibit different patterns for the relative frequencies of the sequence end motifs. The present disclosure provides various uses for measures of the relative frequencies of sequence end motifs of cell-free DNA, e.g., in mixtures of cell-free DNA from various tissues. DNA from one of such tissue may be referred to as clinically-relevant DNA.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of classifying a level of pathology in a biological sample of a subject, the biological sample including cell-free DNA, the method comprising: analyzing a plurality of cell-free DNA fragments from the biological sample to obtain sequence reads, wherein the sequence reads include ending sequences corresponding to ends of the plurality of cell-free DNA fragments; for each of the plurality of cell-free DNA fragments, determining a sequence motif for each of one or more ending sequences of the cell-free DNA fragment; determining relative frequencies of a set of one or more sequence motifs corresponding to the ending sequences of the plurality of cell-free DNA fragments, wherein a relative frequency of a sequence motif provides a proportion of the plurality of cell-free DNA fragments that have an ending sequence corresponding to the sequence motif; determining an aggregate value of the relative frequencies of the set of one or more sequence motifs; and determining a classification of a level of pathology for the subject based on a comparison of the aggregate value to a reference value.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: filtering the cell-free DNA to identify the plurality of cell-free DNA fragments.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the filtering is based on a size of or a region from which a DNA fragment is derived.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the cell-free DNA is filtered for DNA fragments from open chromatin regions of a particular tissue.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the pathology is a cancer.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the cancer is hepatocellular carcinoma, lung cancer, breast cancer, gastric cancer, glioblastoma multiforme, pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, nasopharyngeal carcinoma, and head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the classification is determined from a plurality of levels of cancer that include a plurality of stages of cancer.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the pathology is an auto-immune disorder.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the auto-immune disorder is systemic lupus erythematosus.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the level of pathology corresponds to a fractional concentration of clinically-relevant DNA associated with the pathology.
11. A method of estimating a fractional concentration of clinically-relevant DNA in a biological sample of a subject, the biological sample including the clinically-relevant DNA and other DNA that are cell-free, the method comprising: analyzing a plurality of cell-free DNA fragments from the biological sample to obtain sequence reads, wherein the sequence reads include ending sequences corresponding to ends of the plurality of cell-free DNA fragments; for each of the plurality of cell-free DNA fragments, determining a sequence motif for each of one or more ending sequences of the cell-free DNA fragment; determining relative frequencies of a set of one or more sequence motifs corresponding to the ending sequences of the plurality of cell-free DNA fragments, wherein a relative frequency of a sequence motif provides a proportion of the plurality of cell-free DNA fragments that have an ending sequence corresponding to the sequence motif; determining an aggregate value of the relative frequencies of the set of one or more sequence motifs; and determining a classification of the fractional concentration of clinically-relevant DNA in the biological sample by comparing the aggregate value to one or more calibration values determined from one or more calibration samples whose fractional concentration of clinically-relevant DNA are known.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the clinically-relevant DNA is selected from a group consisting of fetal DNA, tumor DNA, DNA from a transplanted organ, and a particular tissue type.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the clinically-relevant DNA is of a particular tissue type.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the particular tissue type is liver or hematopoietic.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the subject is a pregnant female, and wherein the clinically-relevant DNA is placental tissue.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the clinically-relevant DNA is tumor DNA derived from an organ that has cancer.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the one or more calibration values are a plurality of calibration values of a calibration function that is determined using fractional concentrations of clinically-relevant DNA of a plurality of calibration samples.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein the one or more calibration values corresponds to one or more aggregate values of the relative frequencies of the set of one or more sequence motifs that are measured using cell-free DNA fragments in the one or more calibration samples.
19. The method of claim 11, further comprising: for each calibration sample of the one or more calibration samples: measuring the fractional concentration of clinically-relevant DNA in the calibration sample; and determining the aggregate value of the relative frequencies of the set of one or more sequence motifs by analyzing cell-free DNA fragments from the calibration sample as part of obtaining a calibration data point, thereby determining one or more aggregate values, wherein each calibration data point specifies the measured fractional concentration of clinically-relevant DNA in the calibration sample and the aggregate value determined for the calibration sample, and wherein the one or more calibration values are the one or more aggregate values or are determined using the one or more aggregate values.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein measuring the fractional concentration of clinically-relevant DNA in the calibration sample is performed using an allele specific to the clinically-relevant DNA.
21. A method of determining a gestational age of a fetus by analyzing a biological sample from a female subject pregnant with a fetus, the biological sample including cell-free DNA molecules from the female subject and the fetus, the method comprising: analyzing a plurality of cell-free DNA fragments from the biological sample to obtain sequence reads, wherein the sequence reads include ending sequences corresponding to ends of the plurality of cell-free DNA fragments; for each of the plurality of cell-free DNA fragments, determining a sequence motif for each of one or more ending sequences of the cell-free DNA fragment; determining relative frequencies of a set of one or more sequence motifs corresponding to the ending sequences of the plurality of cell-free DNA fragments, wherein a relative frequency of a sequence motif provides a proportion of the plurality of cell-free DNA fragments that have an ending sequence corresponding to the sequence motif; determining an aggregate value of the relative frequencies of the set of one or more sequence motifs; obtaining one or more calibration data points, wherein each calibration data point specifies a gestational age corresponding to an aggregate value, and wherein the one or more calibration data points are determined from a plurality of calibration samples with known gestational ages and including cell-free DNA molecules; comparing the aggregate value to a calibration value of at least one calibration data point; and estimating a gestational age of the fetus based on the comparing.
22. 22-27. (canceled)
28. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of one or more sequence motifs include N base positions, wherein the set of one or more sequence motifs include all combinations of N bases, and wherein N is an integer equal to or greater than three.
29. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of one or more sequence motifs are a top M sequence motifs with a largest difference between two types of DNA as determined in one or more reference samples, M being an integer equal to or greater than one.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the two types of DNA are the clinically-relevant DNA and the other DNA.
31. The method of claim 29, wherein the two types of DNA are from two references samples having different classifications for the level of pathology.
32. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of one or more sequence motifs are a top M most frequent sequence motifs occurring in one or more reference samples, M being an integer equal to or greater than one.
33. The method of claim 28, wherein the set of one or more sequence motifs includes a plurality of sequence motifs, and wherein the aggregate value includes a sum of the relative frequencies of the set.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein the sum is a weighted sum.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein the aggregate value includes an entropy term, and wherein the entropy term includes a sum of terms comprising the weighted sum, each term including a relative frequency multiplied by a logarithm of the relative frequency.
36. The method of claim 1, wherein the aggregate value corresponds to a variance in the relative frequencies.
37. The method of claim 1, wherein the aggregate value includes a final or intermediate output of a machine learning model.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein the machine learning model uses clustering, support vector machines, or logistic regression.
39. 39-53. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
