<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROVI GUIDES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BENNETT, STEVEN
KELLEY, RANDALL
XU, XIAOXI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59227233
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR DETERMINING ADVERTISING REACH BASED ON MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems are provided for determining advertising reach based on machine learning. In particular, a reach calculator is provided to determine reach for advertisement campaigns in real time through the use of machine learning. The reach calculator increases the speed at which reach calculations can be done by using a trained machine learning model and a set of aggregated features as opposed to using a direct calculation approach that directly analyzes a massive amount of user data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-50. (canceled)
51. A method for providing real-time reach estimation calculations via a machine learning model, comprising: retrieving a reduced user data set having a sample size from a full user data set comprising media consumption data for a plurality of users; generating, using control circuitry, a set of aggregated features that is predictive of a reach estimation of unique users who are exposed to an advertising campaign during media consumption; developing the machine learning model by: determining, using the control circuitry, a sample reach calculation, wherein the sample reach calculation is based on the set of aggregated features and the reduced user data set; generating a simulated reach calculation using a selected machine learning model, implemented on the control circuitry, comprising one or more parameters, wherein the machine learning model is selected based on the set of aggregated features and the sample size; and determining, using the control circuitry, whether the difference between the sample reach calculation and the simulated reach calculation exceeds a predetermined threshold; in response to the determination that the difference between the sample reach calculation and the simulated reach calculation exceeds the predetermined threshold: modifying, using the control circuitry, the one or more parameters of the selected machine learning model; generating, using the selected machine learning model, implemented on control circuitry, a revised simulated reach calculation based on at least the modified one or more parameters; and in response to the determination that the difference between the sample reach calculation and the revised simulated reach calculation does not exceed the predetermined threshold, storing, in a storage medium, the modified one or more parameters as the machine learning model; and making available the machine learning model for provision of an on-demand reach calculation request to overcome having to perform direct reach calculations on a full dataset.
52. The method of claim 51, wherein modifying the one or more parameters of the selected machine learning model comprises adjusting a number of advertisements included in the advertising campaign, advertisement frequencies, advertisement schedules, and advertisement channels.
53. The method of claim 51, wherein each of the one or more parameters comprise a mathematical relationship between the simulated reach calculation and the set of aggregated features.
54. The method of claim 53, wherein the mathematical relationship comprises at least one of a quadratic function, a natural exponential function, or an inverse function.
55. The method of claim 51, wherein the machine learning model is selected based on the set of aggregated features.
56. The method of claim 51, wherein the set of aggregated features is based on a user selection.
57. The method of claim 51, wherein the sample size is based on a user selection.
58. The method of claim 51, wherein the predetermined threshold is based on a user selection.
59. The method of claim 51, wherein media consumption comprises at least one of linear programmed media assets or non-linear programmed media assets.
60. The method of claim 51, wherein the sample size is determined using a percentage of a total number of users.
61. A system for providing real-time reach estimation calculations via a machine learning model, comprising: control circuitry configured to: retrieve a reduced user data set having a sample size from a full user data set comprising media consumption data for a plurality of users; generate a set of aggregated features that is predictive of a reach estimation of unique users who are exposed to an advertising campaign during media consumption; develop the machine learning model by configuring the control circuitry to: determine a sample reach calculation, wherein the sample reach calculation is based on the set of aggregated features and the reduced user data set; generate a simulated reach calculation using a selected machine learning model, implemented on the control circuitry, comprising one or more parameters, wherein the machine learning model is selected based on the set of aggregated features and the sample size; determine whether the difference between the sample reach calculation and the simulated reach calculation exceeds a predetermined threshold; in response to the determination that the difference between the sample reach calculation and the simulated reach calculation exceeds the predetermined threshold: modify the one or more parameters of the selected machine learning model; generate, using the selected machine learning model, implemented on control circuitry, a revised simulated reach calculation based on at least the modified one or more parameters; and in response to the determination that the difference between the sample reach calculation and the revised simulated reach calculation does not exceed the predetermined threshold, store, in a storage medium, the modified one or more parameters as the machine learning model; and make available the machine learning model for provision of an on-demand reach calculation request to overcome having to perform direct reach calculations on a full dataset.
62. The system of claim 61, wherein the control circuitry, when modifying the one or more parameters of the selected machine learning model, is configured to adjust a number of advertisements included in the advertising campaign, advertisement frequencies, advertisement schedules, and advertisement channels.
63. The system of claim 61, wherein each of the one or more parameters comprise a mathematical relationship between the simulated reach calculation and the set of aggregated features.
64. The system of claim 63, wherein the mathematical relationship comprises at least one of a quadratic function, a natural exponential function, or an inverse function.
65. The system of claim 61, wherein the machine learning model is selected based on the set of aggregated features.
66. The system of claim 61, wherein the set of aggregated features is based on a user selection.
67. The system of claim 61, wherein the sample size is based on a user selection.
68. The system of claim 61, wherein the predetermined threshold is based on a user selection.
69. The system of claim 61, wherein media consumption comprises at least one of linear programmed media assets or non-linear programmed media assets.
70. The system of claim 61, wherein the control circuitry is configured to determine the sample size using a percentage of a total number of users.
</claims>
</document>
