<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F24F11/38,F24F11/52,G08B21/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
TURNER, LARRY, A.
POLLARD, GARY B.
BUDA, PAUL, ROBERT
BROWN, SCOTT ROBERT
GLASGOW, DAVID R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71614778
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTING DIAGNOSTIC EVENTS IN A THERMAL SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the disclosure provide a thermal model based on an adaptive filter bank for characterizing heat transfer of a volume of a thermal system. In one embodiment, the adaptive filter bank is used for diagnostics that provides information related to the condition of a thermal system. The diagnostics are based on an analysis of heat transfer characteristics of a dynamic representation of the thermal system. In accordance with the embodiments, thermal coefficients are generated based on an adaptive filter bank. One or more filters are applied to the thermal coefficients based on a sampling rate and one or more estimate thermal coefficient thresholds are generated based on the sampling rate. It is determined whether at least one of the thermal coefficients that is filtered satisfies at least one of the estimated thermal coefficient thresholds. Thereupon, alert information indicative of a diagnostic event is provided based on the determination.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: generating, by a controller device, thermal coefficients at an adaptive filter bank to characterizes heat transfer of a volume associated with a thermal system; applying, by the controller device, one or more filters to the thermal coefficients based on a sampling rate; responsive to the applying the filters, generating, by the controller device, one or more estimate thermal coefficient thresholds based on the sampling rate; determining, by the controller device, whether at least one of the thermal coefficients that is filtered satisfies at least one of the estimated thermal coefficient thresholds; and providing, by the controller device, alert information indicative of a diagnostic event associated with the thermal system based on the determining.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the thermal coefficients further comprises: identifying a thermal model for application with the thermal system; determining, based on the thermal model, an estimation error for a reference signal with respect to a primary signal associated with the volume; and adapting, based on the adaptive filter, the thermal coefficients in view of the estimation error to satisfy a solution associated with the volume.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: adapting the sampling rate based on a filter operation associated with at least one of the filters.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the filter operation comprises at least one infinite impulse response filter.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the estimate thermal coefficient thresholds further comprises: determining whether a sequence of thermal coefficient vectors support a definition of the diagnostic event.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining whether the at least one thermal coefficient exceeds an upper or lower boundary window associated with the at least one estimated thermal coefficient threshold.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the alert information indicates an anomalous operation of a device associated with the volume.
8. A system, comprising: a memory to store a plurality of thermal coefficient data; and a controller device, operatively coupled to the memory, to: generate thermal coefficients at an adaptive filter bank to characterizes heat transfer of a volume associated with a thermal system; apply or more filters to the thermal coefficients based on a sampling rate; responsive to applying the filters, generate one or more estimate thermal coefficient thresholds based on the sampling rate; determine whether at least one of the thermal coefficients that is filtered satisfies at least one of the estimated thermal coefficient thresholds; and provide alert information indicative of a diagnostic event associated with the thermal system based on the determining.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein to generate the thermal coefficients, the controller device is further to: identify a thermal model for application with the thermal system; determine, based on the thermal model, an estimation error for a reference signal with respect to a primary signal associated with the volume; and adapt, based on the adaptive filter, the thermal coefficients in view of the estimation error to satisfy a solution associated with the volume.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the controller device is further to: adapt the sampling rate based on a filter operation associated with at least one of the filters.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the filter operation comprises at least one infinite impulse response filter.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein to generate the estimate thermal coefficient thresholds, the controller device is further to: determine whether a sequence of thermal coefficient vectors support a definition of the diagnostic event.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the controller device is further to: determine whether the at least one thermal coefficient exceeds an upper or lower boundary window associated with the at least one estimated thermal coefficient threshold.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the alert information indicates an anomalous operation of a device associated with the volume.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising executable instructions that when executed, by a controller device, cause the controller device to: apply, by the controller device, or more filters to the thermal coefficients based on a sampling rate; responsive to applying the filters, generate one or more estimate thermal coefficient thresholds based on the sampling rate; determine whether at least one of the thermal coefficients that is filtered satisfies at least one of the estimated thermal coefficient thresholds; and provide alert information indicative of a diagnostic event associated with the thermal system based on the determining.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein to generate the thermal coefficients, the controller device is further to: identify a thermal model for application with the thermal system; determine, based on the thermal model, an estimation error for a reference signal with respect to a primary signal associated with the volume; and adapt, based on the adaptive filter, the thermal coefficients in view of the estimation error to satisfy a solution associated with the volume.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the controller device is further to: adapt the sampling rate based on a filter operation associated with at least one of the filters.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the filter operation comprises at least one infinite impulse response filter.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein to generate the estimate thermal coefficient thresholds, the controller device is further to: determine whether a sequence of thermal coefficient vectors support a definition of the diagnostic event.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of 15, wherein the controller device is further to: determine whether the at least one thermal coefficient exceeds an upper or lower boundary window associated with the at least one estimated thermal coefficient threshold.
</claims>
</document>
