<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SANDVINE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KANASUPRAMANIAM, KAVI
MIHAJLOVIC, PAVLE
HAVANG, ALEXANDER
GUNNARSSON, LARS ANTON
SRIDHAR, KAMAKSHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68318767
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PREDICTING AND REDUCING SUBSCRIBER CHURN
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for creating a model for predicting and reducing subscriber churn in a computer network. The method including: for a predetermined time period: retrieving traffic flow data per subscriber for a plurality of subscribers in the computer network; determining at least one metric per subscriber from the traffic flow data; determining at least one systemic feature associated with the plurality of subscribers; and storing the at least one amalgamated metric and feature; on reaching the predetermined time period create the model by: analyzing at least one metric and at least one feature for the predetermined time period; predicting, per subscriber, whether the subscriber is going to churn within a churn period in the future based on the analysis; validating the prediction by determining whether the subscriber actually churned during the churn period; and creating the model based on the validated predictions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for creating a model for predicting and reducing subscriber churn in a computer network, the method comprising: for a predetermined time period: retrieving traffic flow data per subscriber for a plurality of subscribers in the computer network; determining at least one metric per subscriber from the traffic flow data; determining at least one systemic feature associated with the plurality of subscribers; and storing the at least one amalgamated metric and feature; on reaching the predetermined time period create the model by: analyzing at least one metric and at least one feature for the predetermined time period; predicting, per subscriber, whether the subscriber is going to churn within a churn period in the future based on the analysis; validating the prediction by determining whether the subscriber actually churned during the churn period; and creating the model based on the validated predictions.
2. A method according to claim 1 wherein determining the at least one subscriber comprises: determining if there are any missing data points for the at least one subscriber metric; if there are any missing data points, determining whether a known value may be used in place of any of the missing data points and amalgamating the known value with the at least one subscriber metric; otherwise determining whether there are sufficient data points for the at least one subscriber metric to make a prediction regarding subscriber churn.
3. A method according to claim 1 wherein determining the at least one subscriber metric comprises: determining whether the at least one subscriber metric includes too many data points; grouping the data points based on the time the data point was retrieved; taking a mean of the grouped data points; and using the mean of the grouped data points as the at least one subscriber metric or the at least one systemic feature.
4. A method according to claim 1 wherein validating the prediction comprises: determining the accuracy of the prediction per subscriber; comparing a percent of all subscribers predicted to churn by the model to a percent of the subscribers that actually churn; and if the accuracy and the comparison are above a predetermined threshold, determine that the model is valid; otherwise continue to prepare and develop the model.
5. A method according to claim 4 wherein the predetermined time period is sufficient in length to provide a sufficient data points for the prediction per subscriber.
6. A method according to claim 1 wherein the churn period comprises: a churn time period being a time period in the future, beyond when the prediction was made, which the model is making the prediction of whether the subscriber will churn.
7. A method according to claim 6 wherein the at least one metric per subscriber is selected based on the churn time period for the model.
8. A method according to claim 1 wherein the at least one systemic feature is selected from the group comprising: subscriber attributes; device attributes, subscriber service plan; location information; geographic information; and network information.
9. A method according to claim 1 wherein the validating the prediction comprises validating the prediction using N-fold cross validation.
10. A method according to claim 1 wherein the analyzing of the at least one metric and at least one feature uses a model selected from the group comprising: Gaussian model, Light Gradient Boost Model, Stochastic Vector Machines, Gaussian Naïve Bayes, Logistic Regressions, Neural Network Deep Neural Networks and Recurrent Neural Networks.
11. A method for predicting and reducing subscriber churn on a computer network, the method comprising: retrieving traffic flow data for a subscriber of the computer network; determining at least one subscriber metric from the traffic flow data; analyzing the at least one subscriber metric with a model for predicting subscriber churn; predicting whether the subscriber will churn during a predetermined churn period; and if the subscriber is predicted to churn, providing a traffic action on the traffic flow for the subscriber; otherwise allowing the subscriber's traffic flow to continue without action.
12. A method for according to claim 11, wherein the churn period comprises: a churn time period being a time period in the future, past when the prediction was made, which the model is making the prediction of whether the subscriber will churn.
13. A method according to claim 11, wherein the traffic action is selected from a group comprising: shaping the traffic; providing the subscriber more bandwidth; reporting the subscriber to a service provider; and flagging the subscriber's traffic for further review.
14. A system for predicting and reducing subscriber churn on a computer network, the system comprising: a data collection module configured to: retrieve traffic flow data per subscriber for a plurality of subscribers in the computer network; and determine at least one systemic feature associated with the plurality of subscribers; a feature extraction module configured to determine at least one metric per subscriber form the traffic flow data; a machine learning module configured to: analyze at least one metric and at least one feature for the predetermined time period; create a model for predicting and reducing subscriber churn based on the analysis; and predict per subscriber, whether the subscriber is going to churn within a churn period in the future based on the analysis; an evaluation module configured to validate the prediction by determining whether the subscriber actually churned during the churn period; and a reporting module configured to perform a traffic action based on the prediction.
15. A system according to claim 14 wherein the data collection module is further configured to: determine if there are any missing data points for the at least one subscriber metric; if there are any missing data points, determine whether a known value may be used in place of any of the missing data points and amalgamate the known value with the at least one subscriber metric; otherwise determine whether there are sufficient data points for the at least one subscriber metric to make a prediction regarding subscriber churn.
16. A system according to claim 14 wherein the data collection module is further configured to: determine whether the at least one subscriber metric includes too many data points; group the data points based on the time the data point was retrieved; take a mean of the grouped data points; and use the mean of the grouped data points as the at least one subscriber metric or the at least one systemic feature.
17. A system according to claim 14 wherein the evaluation module is further configured to: determine the accuracy of the prediction per subscriber; compare a percent of all subscribers predicted to churn by the model to a percent of the subscribers that actually churn; and if the accuracy and the comparison are above a predetermined threshold, determine that the model is valid; otherwise continue to prepare and develop the model.
18. A system according to claim 14, wherein the traffic action is selected from a group comprising: shaping the traffic; providing the subscriber more bandwidth; reporting the subscriber to a service provider; and flagging the subscriber's traffic for further review.
19. A system according to claim 14 wherein the at least one systemic feature is selected from the group comprising: subscriber attributes; device attributes, subscriber service plan; location information; geographic information; and network information.
20. A system according to claim 14 wherein the predetermined time period is sufficient in length to provide a sufficient data points for the prediction per subscriber.
</claims>
</document>
