<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F01N3/08,F02D41/02,F02D41/14,F02D41/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HITACHI AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GE, ZICHENG
LONARI, YAHODEEP
ORYOJI, KAZUHIRO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70159330
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Engine control system and method
</title>

<abstract>
In some examples, a system including one or more processors may receive sensor data from one or more sensors indicating one or more engine parameters of an engine including a combustion chamber. Based on the sensor data, the system may determine a homogeneity index indicative of a homogeneity of an air-fuel mixture within the combustion chamber. Furthermore, the system may determine an estimated amount of NOx in the exhaust gas based at least in part on the homogeneity index. In addition, based at least partially on the estimated amount of NOx in the exhaust gas, the system may send an instruction to control an engine component.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: an engine including a piston mounted for reciprocating within a cylinder including a combustion chamber, the combustion chamber including an intake valve associated with an intake passage, an exhaust valve associated with an exhaust passage for receiving exhaust gas from the combustion chamber, and a fuel injector positioned to inject fuel into air received into the combustion chamber through the intake passage for combustion in the combustion chamber; one or more sensors for sensing one or more parameters of the engine; one or more processors in communication with the one or more sensors; one or more computer-readable media storing instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, program the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving sensor data from the one or more sensors; based on the sensor data, determining a homogeneity index indicative of a homogeneity of an air-fuel mixture within the combustion chamber; determining an estimated amount of NOx in the exhaust gas based at least in part on the homogeneity index; and controlling an engine component based at least partially on the estimated amount of NOx in the exhaust gas.
2. The system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a data structure having one or more homogeneity index distributions determined in advance using a computer simulation of the engine, wherein: the sensor data includes at least one of: an indicated in-cylinder pressure, an indicated intake pressure, an indicated exhaust pressure, an indicated valve timing, an indicated fuel injection timing, or an indicated fuel injection quantity; and the homogeneity index is determined by accessing the data structure based at least partially on the at least one of the indicated in-cylinder pressure, the indicated intake pressure, the indicated exhaust pressure, the indicated valve timing, the indicated fuel injection timing, or the indicated fuel injection quantity.
3. The system as recited in claim 1, further comprising an NOx control device in communication with the exhaust passage, wherein following combustion, exhaust gas is expelled through the exhaust passage to the NOx control device, the operations further comprising: comparing a total estimated amount of NOx since a last regeneration event for the NOx control device with a regeneration threshold for total NOx; and based on the total estimated amount of NOx exceeding the regeneration threshold, controlling the engine component by sending an instruction to perform regeneration of the NOx control device.
4. The system as recited in claim 3, the operations further comprising inputting the homogeneity index into a trained machine learning model to determine the estimated amount of NOx in the exhaust gas, wherein the trained machine learning model is an artificial neural network trained for the engine and the NOx control device using an external computing device.
5. The system as recited in claim 3, wherein: the NOx control device is a lean NOx trap; and the regeneration includes operating the engine for specified period of time with a rich air-fuel ratio.
6. The system as recited in claim 3, wherein: the NOx control device is selective catalytic reduction device; and the regeneration includes exposing the NOx control device to at least one of urea, anhydrous ammonia, or aqueous ammonia.
7. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the fuel injector is positioned to one of: inject fuel directly into the combustion chamber; or inject fuel into the intake passage.
8. A method comprising: receiving, by one or more processors, sensor data from one or more sensors indicating one or more engine parameters of an engine including a combustion chamber; based on the sensor data, determining a homogeneity index indicative of a homogeneity of an air-fuel mixture within the combustion chamber; determining an estimated amount of NOx in exhaust gas exiting the combustion chamber based at least in part on the homogeneity index; and based at least in part on the estimated amount of NOx, sending an instruction to control an engine component.
9. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein the sensor data includes at least one of: an indicated in-cylinder pressure, an indicated intake pressure, an indicated exhaust pressure, an indicated valve timing, an indicated fuel injection timing, or an indicated fuel injection quantity, the method further comprising: generating a data structure having one or more homogeneity index distributions determined in advance using a computer simulation of the engine, and determining the homogeneity index by accessing the data structure based at least partially on the at least one of the indicated in-cylinder pressure, the indicated intake pressure, the indicated exhaust pressure, the indicated valve timing, the indicated fuel injection timing, or the indicated fuel injection quantity.
10. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein the engine includes an NOx control device in communication with an exhaust passage from the combustion chamber, wherein following combustion, exhaust gas is expelled through the exhaust passage to the NOx control device, the method further comprising: comparing a total estimated amount of NOx since a last regeneration event for the NOx control device with a regeneration threshold for total NOx; and based on the total estimated amount of NOx exceeding the regeneration threshold, controlling the engine component by sending an instruction to perform regeneration of the NOx control device.
11. The method as recited in claim 10, further comprising inputting the homogeneity index into a trained machine learning model to determine the estimated amount of NOx in the exhaust gas, wherein the trained machine learning model is an artificial neural network trained for the engine and the NOx control device using an external computing device.
12. The method as recited in claim 10, wherein the NOx control device is a lean NOx trap, and sending the instruction to control the engine component comprises sending one or more control signals to operate the engine for specified period of time with a rich air-fuel ratio for regenerating the lean NOx trap.
13. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein the NOx control device is a selective catalytic reduction device, and sending the instruction to control the engine component comprises sending one or more control signals to expose the NOx control device to at least one of urea, anhydrous ammonia, or aqueous ammonia for regenerating the selective catalytic reduction device.
14. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein the engine includes a fuel injector positioned to one of: inject fuel directly into the combustion chamber; or inject fuel into the intake passage.
15. A system comprising: an engine including a combustion chamber and one or more sensors; one or more processors in communication with the one or more sensors; one or more computer-readable media storing instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, program the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving sensor data from the one or more sensors indicating one or more engine parameters of the engine; based on the sensor data, determining a homogeneity index for an air-fuel mixture within the combustion chamber; determining an estimated amount of NOx in exhaust gas exiting the combustion chamber based at least in part on the homogeneity index; and based at least in part on the estimated amount of NOx, sending an instruction to control an engine component.
16. The system as recited in claim 15, wherein the sensor data includes at least one of: an indicated in-cylinder pressure, an indicated intake pressure, an indicated exhaust pressure, an indicated valve timing, an indicated fuel injection timing, or an indicated fuel injection quantity, the operations further comprising: generating a data structure having one or more homogeneity index distributions determined in advance using a computer simulation of the engine; and determining the homogeneity index by accessing the data structure based at least partially on the at least one of the indicated in-cylinder pressure, the indicated intake pressure, the indicated exhaust pressure, the indicated valve timing, the indicated fuel injection timing, or the indicated fuel injection quantity.
17. The system as recited in claim 15, further comprising an NOx control device positioned to receive the exhaust gas exiting the combustion chamber, the operations further comprising: comparing a total estimated amount of NOx since a last regeneration event for the NOx control device with a regeneration threshold for total NOx; and based on the total estimated amount of NOx exceeding the regeneration threshold, controlling the engine component by sending an instruction to perform regeneration of the NOx control device.
18. The system as recited in claim 17, the operations further comprising inputting the homogeneity index into a trained machine learning model to determine the estimated amount of NOx in the exhaust gas, wherein the trained machine learning model is an artificial neural network trained for the engine and the NOx control device using an external computing device.
19. The as recited in claim 17, wherein the NOx control device is a lean NOx trap, and sending the instruction to control the engine component comprises sending one or more control signals to operate the engine for specified period of time with a rich air-fuel ratio for regenerating the lean NOx trap.
20. The system as recited in claim 17, wherein the NOx control device is a selective catalytic reduction device, and sending the instruction to control the engine component comprises sending one or more control signals to expose the NOx control device to at least one of urea, anhydrous ammonia, or aqueous ammonia for regenerating the selective catalytic reduction device.
</claims>
</document>
