<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W10/18,B60W10/20,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HONDA MOTOR COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MISU, TERUHISA
TAWARI, ASHISH
MARTIN, SUJITHA CATHERINE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514310
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR OUTPUTTING VEHICLE DYNAMIC CONTROLS USING DEEP NEURAL NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for outputting vehicle dynamic controls using deep neural networks that include receiving environmental sensor data from at least one sensor of a vehicle of a surrounding environment of the vehicle. The system and method also include inputting the environmental sensor data to a primary deep neural network structure and inputting intermediate representation, at least one applicable traffic rule, and at least one applicable vehicle maneuver to a secondary deep neural network structure. The system and method further include outputting vehicle dynamic controls to autonomously control the vehicle to navigate within the surrounding environment of the vehicle based on the at least one applicable traffic rule and the at least one applicable vehicle maneuver.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for outputting vehicle dynamic controls using deep neural networks, comprising: receiving environmental sensor data from at least one sensor of a vehicle of a surrounding environment of the vehicle; inputting the environmental sensor data to a primary deep neural network structure (primary DNN structure), wherein the primary DNN structure outputs an intermediate representation of the surrounding environment of the vehicle, at least one applicable traffic rule to be followed while navigating within the surrounding environment of the vehicle, and at least one applicable vehicle maneuver to be followed while navigating within the surrounding environment of the vehicle; inputting the intermediate representation, the at least one applicable traffic rule, and the at least one applicable vehicle maneuver to a secondary deep neural network structure (secondary DNN structure); and outputting vehicle dynamic controls to autonomously control the vehicle to navigate within the surrounding environment of the vehicle based on the at least one applicable traffic rule and the at least one applicable vehicle maneuver.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving environmental sensor data includes receiving image data, LiDAR data, and radar data, wherein the image data, the LiDAR data, and the radar data pertains to at least one traffic participant, at least one roadway attribute, and at least one road side object.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the primary deep neural network structure utilizes a pre-trained environmental sensor dataset that includes image logic, LiDAR logic, and radar logic, wherein the image data, the LiDAR data, and the radar data is evaluated with respect to the pre-trained environmental sensor dataset to output the intermediate representation of the surrounding environment of the vehicle.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the intermediate representation of the surrounding environment of the vehicle is evaluated with respect to a pre-trained traffic maneuver dataset to output the at least one traffic rule that is applicable to the operation of the vehicle within the surrounding environment of the vehicle.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the intermediate representation of the surrounding environment of the vehicle is evaluated with respect to a pre-trained traffic maneuver dataset to output the at least one vehicle maneuver that is applicable to the operation of the vehicle within the surrounding environment of the vehicle.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein vehicle dynamic data is received from vehicle dynamic sensors of the vehicle, wherein the vehicle dynamic data is inputted to the secondary DNN structure to be evaluated in addition to the intermediate representation, the at least one applicable traffic rule, and the at least one applicable vehicle maneuver output by the primary DNN structure.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the vehicle dynamic data, the intermediate representation, the at least one applicable traffic rule, and the at least one applicable vehicle maneuver is evaluated with respect to a pre-trained dynamic control dataset to output the vehicle dynamic controls.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the vehicle dynamic controls includes at least one acceleration control, at least one brake control, and at least one steering control, wherein the at least one acceleration control, the at least one brake control, and the at least one steering control are utilized to autonomously control the vehicle to navigate within the surrounding environment of the vehicle.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein data output by the primary DNN structure and the secondary DNN structure are stored on a control decision log, wherein the control decision log is accessed to output an explainable model that provides context as to a reason why particular autonomous driving decisions are utilized to apply the vehicle dynamic controls.
10. A system for outputting vehicle dynamic controls using deep neural networks, comprising: a memory storing instructions when executed by a processor cause the processor to: receive environmental sensor data from at least one sensor of a vehicle of a surrounding environment of the vehicle; input the environmental sensor data to a primary deep neural network structure (primary DNN structure), wherein the primary DNN structure outputs an intermediate representation of the surrounding environment of the vehicle, at least one applicable traffic rule to be followed while navigating within the surrounding environment of the vehicle, and at least one applicable vehicle maneuver to be followed while navigating within the surrounding environment of the vehicle; input the intermediate representation, the at least one applicable traffic rule, and the at least one applicable vehicle maneuver to a secondary deep neural network structure (secondary DNN structure); and output vehicle dynamic controls to autonomously control the vehicle to navigate within the surrounding environment of the vehicle based on the at least one applicable traffic rule and the at least one applicable vehicle maneuver.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein receiving environmental sensor data includes receiving image data, LiDAR data, and radar data, wherein the image data, the LiDAR data, and the radar data pertains to at least one traffic participant, at least one roadway attribute, and at least one road side object.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the primary deep neural network structure utilizes a pre-trained environmental sensor dataset that includes image logic, LiDAR logic, and radar logic, wherein the image data, the LiDAR data, and the radar data is evaluated with respect to the pre-trained environmental sensor dataset to output the intermediate representation of the surrounding environment of the vehicle.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the intermediate representation of the surrounding environment of the vehicle is evaluated with respect to a pre-trained traffic maneuver dataset to output the at least one traffic rule that is applicable to the operation of the vehicle within the surrounding environment of the vehicle.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the intermediate representation of the surrounding environment of the vehicle is evaluated with respect to a pre-trained traffic maneuver dataset to output the at least one vehicle maneuver that is applicable to the operation of the vehicle within the surrounding environment of the vehicle.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein vehicle dynamic data is received from vehicle dynamic sensors of the vehicle, wherein the vehicle dynamic data is inputted to the secondary DNN structure to be evaluated in addition to the intermediate representation, the at least one applicable traffic rule, and the at least one applicable vehicle maneuver output by the primary DNN structure.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the vehicle dynamic data, the intermediate representation, the at least one applicable traffic rule, and the at least one applicable vehicle maneuver is evaluated with respect to a pre-trained dynamic control dataset to output the vehicle dynamic controls.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the vehicle dynamic controls includes at least one acceleration control, at least one brake control, and at least one steering control, wherein the at least one acceleration control, the at least one brake control, and the at least one steering control are utilized to autonomously control the vehicle to navigate within the surrounding environment of the vehicle.
18. The system of claim 10, wherein data output by the primary DNN structure and the secondary DNN structure are stored on a control decision log, wherein the control decision log is accessed to output an explainable model that provides context as to a reason why particular autonomous driving decisions are utilized to apply the vehicle dynamic controls.
19. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer, which includes a processor perform a method, the method comprising: receiving environmental sensor data from at least one sensor of a vehicle of a surrounding environment of the vehicle; inputting the environmental sensor data to a primary deep neural network structure (primary DNN structure), wherein the primary DNN structure outputs an intermediate representation of the surrounding environment of the vehicle, at least one applicable traffic rule to be followed while navigating within the surrounding environment of the vehicle, and at least one applicable vehicle maneuver to be followed while navigating within the surrounding environment of the vehicle; inputting the intermediate representation, the at least one applicable traffic rule, and the at least one applicable vehicle maneuver to a secondary deep neural network structure (secondary DNN structure); and outputting vehicle dynamic controls to autonomously control the vehicle to navigate within the surrounding environment of the vehicle based on the at least one applicable traffic rule and the at least one applicable vehicle maneuver.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein data output by the primary DNN structure and the secondary DNN structure are stored on a control decision log, wherein the control decision log is accessed to output an explainable model that provides context as to a reason why particular autonomous driving decisions are utilized to apply the vehicle dynamic controls.
</claims>
</document>
