<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/583,G06F3/01,G06K9/00,G06T19/00,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAO, QIUSHI
WETMORE, DANIEL
OSBORN, CHRISTOPHER
STONE, JASMINE
AWAD, LANA
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAO, QIUSHI
WETMORE, DANIEL
OSBORN, CHRISTOPHER
STONE, JASMINE
AWAD, LANA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69885425
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NEUROMUSCULAR CONTROL OF AN AUGMENTED REALITY SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Computerized systems, methods, kits, and computer-readable storage media storing code for implementing the methods are provided for controlling an extended reality (XR) system. One such system includes: one or more neuromuscular sensors that sense neuromuscular signals from a user, and at least one computer processor. The neuromuscular sensor(s) is or are arranged on one or more wearable devices structured to be worn by the user to sense the neuromuscular signals. The at least one computer processor is or are programmed to: identify a first muscular activation state of the user based on the neuromuscular signals; determine, based on the first muscular activation state, an operation of an XR system to be controlled; identify a second muscular activation state of the user based on the neuromuscular signals; and output, based on the second muscular activation state, a control signal to the XR system to control the operation of the XR system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computerized system for controlling an augmented reality (AR) system based on neuromuscular signals, the system comprising: a plurality of neuromuscular sensors configured to record a plurality of neuromuscular signals from a user, wherein the plurality of neuromuscular sensors are arranged on one or more wearable devices; and at least one computer processor programmed to: identify a first muscular activation state of the user based on the plurality of neuromuscular signals, determine, based on the first muscular activation state, an operation of the augmented reality system to be controlled, identify a second muscular activation state of the user based on the plurality of neuromuscular signals, and provide, based on the second muscular activation state, a control signal to the AR system to control the operation of the AR reality system.
2. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the first muscular activation state, or the second muscular activation state, or both the first and second muscular activation states comprise a static gesture performed by the user.
3. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the first muscular activation state, or the second muscular activation state, or both the first and second muscular activation states comprise a dynamic gesture performed by the user.
4. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the first muscular activation state, or the second muscular activation state, or both the first and second muscular activation states comprise a sub-muscular activation state.
5. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the first muscular activation state, or the second muscular activation state, or both the first and second muscular activation states comprise a muscular tensing performed by the user.
6. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the first muscular activation state is same as the second muscular activation state.
7. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the control signal comprises a signal for controlling a brightness of a display device associated with the AR system.
8. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the control signal comprises a signal for controlling an attribute of an audio device associated with the AR system.
9. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the control signal comprises a signal for controlling a privacy mode or privacy setting of one or more devices associated with the AR system.
10. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the control signal comprises a signal for controlling a power mode or a power setting of the AR system.
11. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the control signal comprises a signal for controlling an attribute of a camera device associated with the AR system.
12. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the control signal comprises a signal for controlling a display of content by the AR system.
13. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the control signal comprises a signal for controlling information to be provided by the AR system.
14. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the control signal comprises a signal for controlling communication of information associated with the AR system to a second AR system.
15. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the control signal comprises a signal for controlling a visualization of the user generated by the AR system.
16. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the control signal comprises a signal for controlling a visualization of an object or a person other than the user, wherein the visualization is generated by the AR system.
17. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computer processor is further programmed to: present to the user via a user interface displayed in an AR environment provided by the AR system, one or more instructions about how to control the operation of the AR system.
18. The computerized system of claim 17, wherein the one or more instructions include a visual demonstration of how to achieve the first muscular activation state, or the second muscular activation state, or both the first and second muscular activation states.
19. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computer processor is further programmed to: receive information from the AR system indicating a current state of the AR system, wherein the plurality of neuromuscular signals are interpreted based on the received information.
20. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the AR system is configured to operate in a first mode, and wherein the at least one computer processor is further programmed to: identify a third muscular activation state of the user based on the plurality of neuromuscular signals, wherein the third muscular activation state is identified prior to the first and second muscular activation states, and change, based on the third muscular activation state, an operation mode of the AR system from the first mode to a second mode, wherein the second mode is a mode for controlling operations of the AR system.
21. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computer processor is further programmed to: identify a plurality of second muscular activation states of the user based on the plurality of neuromuscular signals, the plurality of second muscular activation states including the second muscular activation state, and provide, based on the plurality of second muscular activation states, a plurality of control signals to the AR system to control the operation of the AR system.
22. The computerized system of claim 21, wherein the at least one computer processor is further programmed to: identify a plurality of third muscular activation states of the user based on the plurality of neuromuscular signals, and provide, based on the plurality of second muscular activation states, or the plurality of third muscular activation states, or both the plurality of second muscular activation states and the plurality of third muscular activation states, the plurality of control signals to the AR system to control the operation of the AR system.
23. A method for controlling an augmented reality (AR) system based on neuromuscular signals, the method comprising: recording, using a plurality of neuromuscular sensors arranged on one or more wearable devices, a plurality neuromuscular signals from a user; identifying a first muscular activation state of the user based on the plurality of neuromuscular signals; determining, based on the first muscular activation state, an operation of the augmented reality system to be controlled; identifying a second muscular activation state of the user based on the plurality of neuromuscular signals; and providing, based on the second muscular activation state, a control signal to the AR system to control the operation of the AR system.
24. A computerized system for controlling an augmented reality (AR) system based on neuromuscular signals, the system comprising: a plurality of neuromuscular sensors configured to record a plurality of neuromuscular signals from a user, wherein the plurality of neuromuscular sensors are arranged on one or more wearable devices; and at least one computer processor programmed to: identify a muscular activation state of the user based on the plurality of neuromuscular signals, determine, based on the muscular activation state, an operation of the AR system to be controlled, and provide, based on the muscular activation state, a control signal to the AR system to control the operation of the AR system.
25. The computerized system of claim 24, wherein the control signal comprises a signal for controlling any one or any combination of: a brightness of a display device associated with the AR system, an attribute of an audio device associated with the AR system, a privacy mode or privacy setting of one or more devices associated with the AR system, a power mode or a power setting of the AR system, and an attribute of a camera device associated with the AR system.
26. The computerized system of claim 24, wherein the control signal comprises a signal for controlling any one or any combination of: a display of content by the AR system, information to be provided by the AR system, and communication of information associated with the AR system to a second AR system.
27. The computerized system of claim 24, wherein the control signal comprises a signal for controlling any one or any combination of: a visualization of the user generated by the AR system, and a visualization of an object or a person other than the user, wherein the visualization is generated by the AR system.
28. The computerized system of claim 24, wherein the at least one computer processor is further programmed to: present to the user via a user interface displayed in an AR environment provided by the AR system, one or more instructions about how to control the operation of the AR system.
29. The computerized system of claim 28, wherein the one or more instructions include a visual demonstration of how to achieve the first muscular activation state, or the second muscular activation state, or both the first and second muscular activation states.
30. The computerized system of claim 24, wherein the at least one computer processor is further programmed to: receive information from the AR system indicating a current state of the AR system, wherein the plurality of neuromuscular signals are interpreted based on the received information.
</claims>
</document>
