<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2011-03-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A47J31/36,A47J31/44,A47J31/52
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NESTLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOLLEP, ALEXANDRE
GAVILLET, GILLES
YOAKIM, ALFRED
AGON, FABIEN LUDOVIC
AIT BOUZIAD, YOUCEF
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
45812799
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATIC BEVERAGE MACHINE
</title>

<abstract>
The invention pertains to the field of the beverage preparation machines having an ingredient processing module for preparing a beverage with at least one ingredient supplied with a capsule. The machine comprises a positioner arranged to hold at least one capsule out of the ingredient processing module. It further comprises a sensing arrangement adapted to detect an event related to the insertion by a user of a capsule and/or the presence of the capsule on or into the positioner. The machine is configured, upon detection of the event, to transfer the capsule to the ingredient processing module by using transfer means, and then to start the preparation of the beverage. More particularly, the invention relates to a machine providing a convenient and safe solution to fully automate the preparation of a beverage.
</abstract>

<claims>
The invention is claimed as follows:
1. A beverage preparation machine comprising: an ingredient processing member configured to prepare at least one beverage with at least one ingredient in at least one capsule; a positioner arranged to hold the at least one capsule out of the ingredient processing member; a sensing member adapted to detect an event selected from the group consisting of insertion of the at least one capsule by a user into the positioner, presence of the at least one capsule in the positioner, and combinations thereof; and a transfer member configured, upon detection of the event, to transfer the at least one capsule to the ingredient processing member for the ingredient processing member to start preparation of the at least one beverage, the beverage preparation machine is configured to, during preparation of a first beverage with a first capsule, allow insertion of a second capsule into the positioner and detection of the second capsule by the sensing member, and the beverage preparation machine is configured to open the positioner, feed the ingredient processing member with the second capsule, and close the ingredient processing member automatically when the preparation of the first beverage is completed.
2. The beverage preparation machine of claim 1, wherein the sensing member is adapted to detect the event by receiving or reading information from the at least one capsule, and/or by measuring a characteristic of the at least one capsule selected from the group consisting of spectral property, color, electrical property, resistivity, capacitance, electromagnetic property, magnetic induced field, mechanical property, geometry, weight, identifying information, code bar, emitted signal, reflected signal, and combinations thereof.
3. The beverage preparation machine of claim 1, wherein the beverage preparation machine is configured to start the preparation of the at least one beverage according to default parameters.
4. The beverage preparation machine of claim 1, wherein the sensing member is adapted to identify a type of the at least one capsule, and the beverage preparation machine is configured to start the preparation of the at least one beverage according to parameters adapted to or dependent on the identified type of the at least one capsule.
5. The beverage preparation machine of claim 1, wherein the beverage preparation machine is configured to transfer the at least one capsule to the ingredient processing member upon detection of the event when the beverage preparation machine is ready to start the preparation of the at least one beverage with the at least one capsule.
6. The beverage preparation machine of claim 1, wherein the ingredient processing member comprises a first part and a second part which are movable relative to one another, the processing member configured to open to form a passage between the first part and the second part for the insertion of the at least one capsule, and the beverage preparation machine further comprises a closing member arranged to close at least partially the passage, the beverage preparation machine configured to operate the closing member to open the passage upon the detection of the event.
7. The beverage preparation machine of claim 6, wherein the positioner is positioned relatively to the passage to allow the transfer, upon the detection of the event, of the at least one capsule into the ingredient processing member, at least partially under the gravity force.
8. The beverage preparation machine of claim 6, wherein the beverage preparation machine is configured to operate the closing member to open the passage upon the detection of the event when the beverage preparation machine is ready to prepare the at least one beverage.
9. The beverage preparation machine of claim 6 further comprising a motorized member configured to drive the closing member for opening the passage upon the detection of the event.
10. The beverage preparation machine of claim 6 further comprising a mechanical coupling member configured to mechanically link the closing member with the first part and/or the second part of the ingredient processing member for opening the passage upon the detection of the event.
11. The beverage preparation machine of claim 6, wherein the closing member is part of the positioner.
12. The beverage preparation machine of claim 11, wherein the positioner comprises a seat adapted to hold the at least one capsule, the closing member comprising a sliding cover forming part of the seat, the beverage preparation machine is configured to operate the closing member for opening the passage upon the detection of the event by translating the sliding cover.
13. The beverage preparation machine of claim 11, wherein the positioner comprises a rotating body comprising a seat adapted to hold the at least one capsule, the closing member comprising a closing part, the beverage preparation machine is configured to, upon detection of the event, transfer the at least one capsule to the ingredient processing member by rotating the rotating body into a position in which the closing part closes at least partially the passage.
14. The beverage preparation machine of claim 1, wherein the beverage preparation machine is configured to feed the ingredient processing member with the second capsule after ejection or removal of the first capsule from the ingredient processing member and to automatically prepare the second beverage.
15. A method for preparing a beverage with at least one ingredient in at least one capsule in a beverage preparation machine comprising an ingredient processing member and a positioner arranged to hold the at least one capsule out of the ingredient processing member, the method comprising: detecting, by a sensing member, an event selected from the group consisting of insertion of a first capsule into the positioner by a user, presence of the first capsule in the positioner, and combinations thereof; upon detection of the event, transferring, by transfer means, the first capsule to the ingredient processing member and then starting preparation of a first beverage; during the preparation of the first beverage, inserting a second capsule into the positioner; recognizing, by the sensing member, the second capsule; and when the preparation of the first beverage is completed, opening the positioner, feeding the ingredient processing member with the second capsule, closing the ingredient processing member automatically, and starting preparation of a second beverage.
</claims>
</document>
