<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/02,G06Q50/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HPE (HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MEJIAS MIRANDA, JOSE M.
THORN, BRENT CURTISS
ROMAGUERA, LUIS RAUL
PINO ORAMA, ALEX FERNANDO
GRACIANI, GILBERTO DAVID
PORTUGAL, DAVID L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71946199
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ENHANCING AND MONITORING DEMAND FORECAST THROUGH ADVANCED ANALYTICS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and system for enhancing and monitoring demand forecasting through advanced analytics is described. The advanced analytics demand forecasting system and techniques leverage multivariate data, thereby enhancing modeling through the use of data related to a plethora of aspects of the supply chain. Multivariate data can include market data, econometric data, customer data, lifecycle analytics, and an expanded range of historical data (e.g., 15 years). Multivariate data can be fed into an advanced analytics hyper parameter model, which combines time series, as well as machine learning and deep learning algorithms to improve the accuracy of the demand forecast. In some cases, the advanced analytics hyper parameter model is a stacking ensemble model, which combines the predictions of several other models using a stacking ensemble technique, thereby improving the modeled predictions. Accordingly, advanced analytics demand forecasting techniques can provide improved accuracy, and advancements over previous univariate approaches.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: filtering multivariate data received from a datastore, wherein the multivariate data comprises a plurality of data relating to demand in a supply chain; applying windowing to the filtered multivariate data, wherein windowing creates a train dataset comprising a plurality of time windows to be processed by a machine learning model; applying a machine learning model to the train dataset, wherein applying the machine learning model comprises training the machine learning model using the train data to generate a prediction; measuring the predication based on the train dataset; and generating a demand forecast based on the measured prediction, wherein the generated demand forecast is usable for analyzing metrics of the supply chain.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the multivariate data comprises: market data; customer data; lifecycle data; econometric data; historical demand data; and data from supply chain sources.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the historical demand data comprises data covering a time window of at least a 15 years.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: applying a machine learning model to a test dataset, wherein applying the machine learning model comprises training the machine learning model using the test data to generate a test prediction; measuring the test predication based on the test dataset; and comparing the test prediction based on the test dataset to the prediction based on the train dataset.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model comprises an advanced analytics hyper parameter model.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the machine learning model comprises a stacking ensemble model.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the machine learning model comprises a multivariate autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) model.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein filtering the multivariate data comprises: filtering to obtain data corresponding to a specific region and data corresponding to a specific product line.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: selecting features from the filtered multivariate data to be modeled by the machine learning model.
10. A method, comprising: training a first level of machine learning models using a first dataset of training data; generating predictions based on the first level of machine learning models; creating a second dataset of training data based on the predictions; training a second level machine learning model using the second dataset of training data; generating a final stacking prediction based on the second level machine learning model; and comparing the final stacking prediction to an optimized model to produce a demand forecast relating to demand for a product in a supply chain.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the first level of machine learning models comprises: a random boosted trees model; a deep learning model; and a random forest model.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the deep learning model comprises a k-Nearest Neighbors (k-NN) model.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the second level of machine learning models comprises a deep learning stacking model.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the deep learning stacking model comprises a feed-forward artificial neural network model.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the first dataset of training data comprises multivariate data capturing multiple life cycles of the product in the supply chain.
16. A system, comprising: a communications network; a client device commutatively coupled to the communications network; a network device communicatively coupled to the client device via the communications network, wherein the network device comprises: a processor, which when executing instructions programs the processor to: filter multivariate data received from a datastore, wherein the multivariate data comprises a plurality of data relating to demand in a supply chain; apply windowing to the filtered multivariate data, wherein windowing creates a train dataset comprising a plurality of time windows to be processed by a machine learning model; apply a machine learning model to the train dataset, wherein applying the machine learning model comprises training the machine learning model using the train data to generate a prediction; measure the predication based on the train dataset; and generate a demand forecast based on the measured prediction.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the client device comprises: a processor, which when executing instructions programs the processor to: receive the demand forecast from the network device; and in response to receiving the demand forecast, present an interactive graphical user interface (GUI) for analyzing metrics of the supply chain using the demand forecast.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the multivariate data comprises: market data; customer data; lifecycle data; econometric data; historical demand data; and data from supply chain sources.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the machine learning model comprises an advanced analytics hyper parameter model.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the advanced analytics hyper parameter model comprises time series algorithms, machine learning algorithms, and deep learning algorithms.
</claims>
</document>
