<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/02,G10L15/05,G10L15/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WEIZMANN INSTITUTE OF SCIENCE
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRECHE, DOMINIK
MOSES, ELISHA
MATALON, Nadav
EHRMANN, Netanel
BIRON, Tirza
BAUM, Daniel
WEINREB, Eyal
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61273990
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EXTRACTING CONTENT FROM SPEECH PROSODY
</title>

<abstract>
A prosodic speech recognition engine configured to identify prosodic features and patterns in a speech continuum for the extraction of linguistic content including para-syntactic content, discourse function, information structure, meaning, and speaker sentiment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for extracting prosodic content from a speech continuum, performed on a computing device having a processor, memory, and one or more code sets stored in the memory and executed in the processor, a microphone, and output device, the method comprising: capturing a snippet of a speech continuum; calculating word-specific speech rates of words within the snippet, each of the word-specific speech rates being an average phoneme rate of phonemes within words; receiving a reference speech rate; calculating speech rate deviations between the word-specific speech rates and the reference speech rate for the words; identifying at least two words characterized by a threshold speech rate deviation; and denoting each of the at least two words characterized by the threshold speech rate deviation as a boundary of an intonation segment.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the reference speech rate is implemented as speaker-specific, average speech rate across the snippet.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the reference speech rate is implemented as the speech rate of the previous word.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: calculating an average speech rate deviation for intra-segment word-strings of the intonation segments; calculating an average word-delivery-speed for the intra-segment word-strings of the intonation segments; identifying a word string characterized by both a minimum intra-segment speech-rate deviation and a maximum, average word-delivery-speed, the word string embodying a departure from discourse flow; and denoting the word string characterized by both a minimum intra-segment speech-rate deviation and a maximum, average word-delivery-speed as a departure from discourse flow.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a minimum pitch of intra-segment word-strings; identifying a maximum pitch of the intra-segment word-strings; calculating a pitch ratio of the maximum pitch to the minimum pitch; comparing the pitch ratio to a gender-specific threshold ratio associated with an inquiry; identifying one or more words characterized by a pitch ratio exceeding the threshold ratio; and denoting the word string having a pitch ratio exceeding the threshold ratio as an inquiry.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the threshold ratio is between 1.7-2.1 wherein the inquiry is an ascertainment question.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the threshold ratio is between 1.3-1.7, wherein the inquiry is a polar question.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the threshold ratio is between 1.1-1.5, wherein the inquiry is up-speak.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: calculating average word-delivery-speeds for intra-segment word-strings of the intonation segments; identifying an intra-segment word-string having a pitch peak; identifying a word-string characterized by both a minimum, average word-delivery-speed and a pitch peak, the word-string characterized by both a minimum, average word-delivery-speed embodying heightened informativity; and denoting the word-string characterized by both a minimum, average word-delivery-speed as an expression of heightened informativity.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying an intra-segment word-string having an intensity fluctuation between 48 Hz to 54 Hz; and denoting the word-string having an intensity fluctuation between 48 Hz to 54 Hz as an expression of speaker reservation.
11. A prosodic speech recognition engine comprising; a microphone; an output device; and a computer configured to: capture a snippet of a speech continuum through the microphone; calculate word-specific speech rates of words within the snippet, each of the word-specific speech rates being an average phoneme rate of phonemes within words; receive a reference speech rate; calculate speech rate deviations between the word-specific speech rates and the reference speech rate for the words; identify at least two words characterized by a threshold speech rate deviation; and denote, through the output device, each of the at least two words characterized by the threshold speech rate deviation as a boundary of at least two intonation segments.
12. The engine of claim 11, wherein the reference speech rate is implemented as speaker-specific, average speech rate across the snippet.
13. The engine of claim 11, wherein the reference speech rate is implemented as the speech rate of the previous word.
14. The engine of claim 11, wherein the computer is further configured to: calculate an average speech rate deviation for intra-segment word-strings of the intonation segments; calculate an average word-delivery-speed for the intra-segment word-strings of the intonation segments; identify a word string characterized by both a minimum intra-segment speech-rate deviation and a maximum, average word-delivery-speed; and denote the word string characterized by both a minimum intra-segment speech-rate deviation and a maximum, average word-delivery-speed as a departure from discourse flow.
15. The engine of claim 11, wherein the computer is further configured to: identify a minimum pitch of intra-segment word-strings; identify a maximum pitch of the intra-segment word-strings; calculate a pitch ratio of the maximum pitch to the minimum pitch; compare the pitch ratio to a gender-specific threshold ratio associated with an inquiry; identify word string having a pitch ratio exceeding the threshold ratio; and denote the word string having a pitch ratio exceeding the threshold ratio as an inquiry.
16. The engine of claim 15, wherein the threshold ratio is between 1.7-2.1, wherein the inquiry is an ascertainment question.
17. The engine of claim 15, wherein the threshold ratio is between 1.3-1.7, wherein the inquiry is a polar question.
18. The engine of claim 15, wherein the threshold ratio is between 1.1-1.5, wherein the inquiry is up-speak.
19. The engine of claim 15, wherein the computer is further configured to: calculate average word-delivery-speeds for intra-segment word-strings of the intonation segments; identify an intra-segment word-string having pitch peak; identify a word-string characterized by both a minimum, average word-delivery-speed and a pitch peak, the word-string characterized by both a minimum, average word-delivery-speed embodying heightened informativity; and denote the word-string characterized by both a minimum, average word-delivery-speed as an expression of heightened informativity.
20. The engine of claim 11, wherein the computer is further configured to: identify an intra-segment word-string having an intensity fluctuation between 48-54 Hz; and denote the word-string having an intensity fluctuation between 48 Hz to 54 Hz as an expression of speaker reservation.
21. The engine of claim 16, wherein the computer is further configured to tag the word string having a pitch ratio having a threshold ratio of 1.7-2.1 as a first order prosodic feature.
22. The engine of claim 18, wherein the computer is further configured to tag the word string having a pitch ratio having a threshold ratio of 1.1-1.5 as a second order prosodic feature.
23. The engine of claim 19, wherein the computer is further configured to tag the word-string characterized by both a minimum, average word-delivery-speed and a pitch peak as a third order prosodic feature.
24. The engine of claim 20, wherein the computer is further configured to tag the intra-segment word-string having an intensity fluctuation between 48-54 Hz as a fourth order prosodic feature.
25. The engine of claim 11, wherein the computer is further configured to employ peak intensity-pitch values so as to identify heightened informativity.
</claims>
</document>
