<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06T7/11,G06T7/136
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING JINGDONG CENTURY TRADING
BEIJING JINGDONG SHANGKE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
AN, SHAN
CHEN YU
ZHU, Zhaoqi
WENG, Zhi
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66228169
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VIDEO IMAGE SEGMENTATION METHOD AND APPARATUS, STORAGE MEDIUM AND ELECTRONIC DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A video image segmentation method includes: obtaining an image segmentation model by performing machine learning based on a historical video image and a mask image of the historical video image; adjusting the image segmentation model based on an initial frame of an image to be segmented, a previous frame of a frame to be segmented and a mask image of the previous image; and performing segmentation on the image to be segmented using the image segmentation model after the adjusting.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A video image segmentation method, comprising: obtaining an image segmentation model by performing machine learning based on a historical video image and a mask image of the historical video image; adjusting the image segmentation model based on an initial frame of an image to be segmented, a previous frame of a frame to be segmented and a mask image of the previous image; and performing segmentation on the image to be segmented using the image segmentation model after the adjusting.
2. The video image segmentation method according to claim 1, wherein the adjusting the image segmentation model based on an initial frame of an image to be segmented, a previous frame of a frame to be segmented and a mask image of the previous image comprises: determining whether a number of frames to be segmented of the image to be segmented exceeds a preset threshold; and when the number of frames to be segmented of the image to be segmented does not exceed the preset threshold, adjusting the image segmentation model based on the initial frame of the image to be segmented, the previous frame of the frame to be segmented and the mask image of the previous image.
3. The video image segmentation method according to claim 2, wherein, after the determining whether a number of frames to be segmented of the image to be segmented exceeds a preset threshold, the video image segmentation method further comprises: when the number of frames to be segmented of the image to be segmented exceeds the preset threshold, adjusting the image segmentation model based on the initial frame of the image to be segmented, a preset frame, the previous frame of the frame to be segmented and the mask image of the previous image.
4. The video image segmentation method according to claim 3, further comprising: extracting the preset frame from the image to be segmented.
5. The video image segmentation method according to claim 4, wherein the extracting the preset frame from the image to be segmented comprises: obtaining an extraction frame number through multiplying the number of frames to be segmented by a preset value; and extracting a frame corresponding to the extraction frame number as the preset frame.
6. The video image segmentation method according to claim 5, wherein the preset value is a value ranged 0.6-0.9.
7. 7-12. (canceled)
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, having stored thereon a computer program, wherein the computer program, when being executed by a processor, implements a video image segmentation method comprising: obtaining an image segmentation model by performing machine learning based on a historical video image and a mask image of the historical video image; adjusting the image segmentation model based on an initial frame of an image to be segmented, a previous frame of a frame to be segmented and a mask image of the previous image; and performing segmentation on the image to be segmented using the image segmentation model after the adjusting.
14. An electronic device, comprising: a processor; and a memory for storing instructions executable by the processor; wherein, the processor is configured to implement, by executing the instructions, a video image segmentation method comprising: obtaining an image segmentation model by performing machine learning based on a historical video image and a mask image of the historical video image; adjusting the image segmentation model based on an initial frame of an image to be segmented, a previous frame of a frame to be segmented and a mask image of the previous image; and performing segmentation on the image to be segmented using the image segmentation model after the adjusting.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium according to claim 13, wherein the adjusting the image segmentation model based on an initial frame of an image to be segmented, a previous frame of a frame to be segmented and a mask image of the previous image comprises: determining whether a number of frames to be segmented of the image to be segmented exceeds a preset threshold; and when the number of frames to be segmented of the image to be segmented does not exceed the preset threshold, adjusting the image segmentation model based on the initial frame of the image to be segmented, the previous frame of the frame to be segmented and the mask image of the previous image.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium according to claim 15, wherein, after the determining whether a number of frames to be segmented of the image to be segmented exceeds a preset threshold, the video image segmentation method further comprises: when the number of frames to be segmented of the image to be segmented exceeds the preset threshold, adjusting the image segmentation model based on the initial frame of the image to be segmented, a preset frame, the previous frame of the frame to be segmented and the mask image of the previous image.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium according to claim 16, wherein the video image segmentation method further comprises: extracting the preset frame from the image to be segmented.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium according to claim 17, wherein the extracting the preset frame from the image to be segmented comprises: obtaining an extraction frame number through multiplying the number of frames to be segmented by a preset value; and extracting a frame corresponding to the extraction frame number as the preset frame.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium according to claim 18, wherein the preset value is a value ranged 0.6-0.9.
20. The electronic device according to claim 14, wherein the adjusting the image segmentation model based on an initial frame of an image to be segmented, a previous frame of a frame to be segmented and a mask image of the previous image comprises: determining whether a number of frames to be segmented of the image to be segmented exceeds a preset threshold; and when the number of frames to be segmented of the image to be segmented does not exceed the preset threshold, adjusting the image segmentation model based on the initial frame of the image to be segmented, the previous frame of the frame to be segmented and the mask image of the previous image.
21. The electronic device according to claim 20, wherein, after the determining whether a number of frames to be segmented of the image to be segmented exceeds a preset threshold, the video image segmentation method further comprises: when the number of frames to be segmented of the image to be segmented exceeds the preset threshold, adjusting the image segmentation model based on the initial frame of the image to be segmented, a preset frame, the previous frame of the frame to be segmented and the mask image of the previous image.
22. The electronic device according to claim 21, wherein the video image segmentation method further comprises: extracting the preset frame from the image to be segmented.
23. The electronic device according to claim 22, wherein the extracting the preset frame from the image to be segmented comprises: obtaining an extraction frame number through multiplying the number of frames to be segmented by a preset value; and extracting a frame corresponding to the extraction frame number as the preset frame.
24. The electronic device according to claim 23, wherein the preset value is a value ranged 0.6-0.9.
</claims>
</document>
