<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B8/00,A61B8/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
OGURI, Takuma
KAMIYAMA, Naohisa
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71949363
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ULTRASONIC APPARATUS, AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
A processor in an ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus controls an ultrasonic probe 2 to transmit a first ultrasonic beam to a first region A1, transmit a second ultrasonic beam to a second region A2, and transmit a third ultrasonic beam to a third region A3, wherein the first and third ultrasonic beams are focused ultrasonic beams having focus points F, and the second ultrasonic beam is an ultrasonic beam formed by a plane wave. The processor produces an ultrasonic image comprised of a first ultrasonic image for the first region A1, a second ultrasonic image for the second region A2, and a third ultrasonic image for the third region A3 based on first, second, and third echo signals obtained from said first, second, and third regions A1, A2, A3.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An ultrasonic apparatus comprising: an ultrasonic probe for transmitting ultrasonic beams to an image production region in a subject to be examined and acquiring echo signals, wherein said image production region is comprised of a first region, a second region, and a third region, said second region lying between said first region and said third region; and a processor for controlling transmission of said ultrasonic beams by said ultrasonic probe, and production of an ultrasonic image for said image production region based on said echo signals, wherein said processor controls said ultrasonic probe to transmit a first ultrasonic beam to said first region, transmit a second ultrasonic beam to said second region, and transmit a third ultrasonic beam to said third region, said first and third ultrasonic beams being focused ultrasonic beams, and said second ultrasonic beam being a plane wave, and produces said ultrasonic image comprised of a first ultrasonic image for said first region, a second ultrasonic image for said second region, and a third ultrasonic image for said third region based on first, second, and third echo signals obtained from said first, second, and third regions by transmissions of said first, second, and third ultrasonic beams.
2. The ultrasonic apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein: said processor controls said ultrasonic probe to transmit a plurality of said first ultrasonic beams along different acoustic-lines in said first region and a plurality of said third ultrasonic beams along different acoustic-lines in said third region, the plurality of said first ultrasonic beams having respective focus points at different positions in an acoustic-line direction, and the plurality of said third ultrasonic beams having focus points at different positions in the acoustic-line direction.
3. The ultrasonic apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein: the position of said focus point in the acoustic-line direction is deeper for first and third ultrasonic beams closer to said second region.
4. The ultrasonic apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein: said processor controls said ultrasonic probe to transmit a plurality of said first ultrasonic beams along different acoustic-lines in said first region and a plurality of said third ultrasonic beams along different acoustic-lines in said third region, the plurality of said first ultrasonic beams having respective focus points at an identical position in the acoustic-line direction, and the plurality of said third ultrasonic beams each having a focus point at an identical position in the acoustic-line direction.
5. The ultrasonic apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein: said processor controls said ultrasonic probe to transmit a plurality of ultrasonic beams having partially overlapping transmit sound fields as said second ultrasonic beam, and for a receive acoustic line in a portion in which said transmit sound fields overlap, creates data used in production of said second ultrasonic image by adding together raw data obtained by transmission of the plurality of second ultrasonic beams having the overlapping transmit sound fields.
6. The ultrasonic apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein: said processor controls said ultrasonic probe to transmit a plurality of ultrasonic beams having partially overlapping transmit sound fields as said second ultrasonic beam, and for a receive acoustic line in a portion in which said transmit sound fields overlap, creates data used in production of said second ultrasonic image by adding together raw data obtained by transmission of the plurality of second ultrasonic beams having the overlapping transmit sound fields.
7. The ultrasonic apparatus as recited in claim 3, wherein: said processor controls said ultrasonic probe to transmit a plurality of ultrasonic beams having partially overlapping transmit sound fields as said second ultrasonic beam, and for a receive acoustic line in a portion in which said transmit sound fields overlap, creates data used in production of said second ultrasonic image by adding together raw data obtained by transmission of the plurality of second ultrasonic beams having the overlapping transmit sound fields.
8. The ultrasonic apparatus as recited in claim 4, wherein: said processor controls said ultrasonic probe to transmit a plurality of ultrasonic beams having partially overlapping transmit sound fields as said second ultrasonic beam, and for a receive acoustic line in a portion in which said transmit sound fields overlap, creates data used in production of said second ultrasonic image by adding together raw data obtained by transmission of the plurality of second ultrasonic beams having the overlapping transmit sound fields.
9. The ultrasonic apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein: said processor controls said ultrasonic probe to transmit in said first region a plurality of said first ultrasonic beams each having focus points at different positions in one transmit acoustic line, and transmit in said third region a plurality of said third ultrasonic beams each having focus points at different positions in one transmit acoustic line.
10. The ultrasonic apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein: said processor performs different processing between signal processing on said first and third echo signals, and that on said second echo signals.
11. The ultrasonic apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein: said processor uses receive filter and gain in the signal processing on said first and third echo signals different from those used in the signal processing on said second echo signals.
12. The ultrasonic apparatus as recited in claim 11, wherein: said processor uses receive filter and gain for compensating lowering of penetration as the receive filter and gain used in the signal processing on said first and third echo signals.
13. The ultrasonic apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein: said processor creates raw data in one or more receive acoustic lines from echo signals acquired by transmission of said first and third ultrasonic beams to produce said first and third ultrasonic images.
14. A method of controlling an ultrasonic apparatus comprising: transmitting a first ultrasonic beam, a second ultrasonic beam and a third ultrasonic beam to an image production region in a subject to be examined, wherein said first ultrasonic beam is a focused ultrasound beam and is transmitted to a first region of said image production region, wherein said second ultrasonic beam is a plane wave and is transmitted to a second region of said image production region, wherein said third ultrasonic beam is a focused ultrasound beam and is transmitted to a third region of said image production region, said second region lying between said first region and said third region; acquiring a first echo signal of said first ultrasonic beam, a second echo signal of said second ultrasonic beam and a third echo signal of said third ultrasonic beam; and producing ultrasonic image comprised of a first ultrasonic image for said first region, a second ultrasonic image for said second region, and a third ultrasonic image for said third region based on said first, said second, and said third echo signals.
15. The method as recited in claim 14, wherein: a plurality of said first ultrasonic beams are transmitted along different acoustic-lines in said first region and a plurality of said third ultrasonic beams are transmitted along different acoustic-lines in said third region, the plurality of said first ultrasonic beams having respective focus points at different positions in an acoustic-line direction, and the plurality of said third ultrasonic beams having focus points at different positions in the acoustic-line direction.
16. The method as recited in claim 15, wherein: the position of said focus point in the acoustic-line direction is deeper for first and third ultrasonic beams closer to said second region.
17. The method as recited in claim 14, wherein: a plurality of said first ultrasonic beams are transmitted along different acoustic-lines in said first region and a plurality of said third ultrasonic beams are transmitted along different acoustic-lines in said third region, the plurality of said first ultrasonic beams having respective focus points at an identical position in the acoustic-line direction, and the plurality of said third ultrasonic beams each having a focus point at an identical position in the acoustic-line direction.
18. The method as recited in claim 14, wherein: a plurality of said second ultrasonic beams having partially overlapping transmit sound fields are transmitted, and further comprising: acquiring echo signals of said second ultrasonic beams from a receive acoustic line in a portion in which said transmit sound fields overlap; wherein said second ultrasonic image is created by adding together echo signals in said receive acoustic line.
19. The method as recited in claim 14, wherein: a plurality of said first ultrasonic beams each having focus points at different positions are transmitted in one transmit acoustic line, and a plurality of said third ultrasonic beams each having focus points at different positions are transmitted in one transmit acoustic line.
20. The method as recited in claim 14, wherein: said processor uses receive filter and gain in the signal processing on said first and third echo signals different from those used in the signal processing on said second echo signals.
</claims>
</document>
