<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J13/00,B25J5/00,B25J9/16,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KAWAGUCHI ATSUO
OHTSUKA, AIKO
RICOH COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAWAGUCHI ATSUO
OHTSUKA, AIKO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71409179
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INFORMATION PROCESSING APPARATUS, INFORMATION PROCESSING METHOD, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
An information processing apparatus for controlling an operation of a telepresence robot at a site includes circuitry configured to receive notification information including device position information of an operation device at the site, the operation device being configured to receive an operation performed by a user, output an operation start request for moving to a specific movement destination, to a specific telepresence robot that is identified based on the device position information included in the received notification information and robot position information of the telepresence robot at the site, transmit a communication request to an administrator terminal configured to perform a remote communication with the specific telepresence robot, instruct the specific telepresence robot to move to the specific movement destination, and start a remote communication between the administrator terminal and the specific telepresence robot.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing apparatus for controlling an operation of a telepresence robot at a site, the information processing apparatus comprising: circuitry configured to receive notification information including device position information of an operation device at the site, the operation device being configured to receive an operation performed by a user; output an operation start request for moving to a specific movement destination, to a specific telepresence robot that is identified based on the device position information included in the received notification information and robot position information of the telepresence robot at the site; transmit a communication request to an administrator terminal configured to perform a remote communication with the specific telepresence robot; instruct the specific telepresence robot to move to the specific movement destination; and start a remote communication between the administrator terminal and the specific telepresence robot.
2. The information processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the circuitry configured to determine the specific telepresence robot that is present at a position closest to the operation device based on the device position information included in the received notification information and the robot position information of a plurality of telepresence robots at the site, wherein the circuitry outputs the operation start request to the specific telepresence robot when the determined specific telepresence robot satisfies a given condition of the state of the telepresence robot.
3. The information processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the given condition is a condition on remaining battery level of the telepresence robot, and wherein the circuitry outputs the operation start request to the specific telepresence robot when the remaining battery level of the specific telepresence robot is equal to or greater than a given value.
4. The information processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the specific movement destination is a position of a user who has performed the operation to the operation device, and wherein the circuitry instructs the specific telepresence robot to move to the position of the user.
5. The information processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the specific movement destination is a position indicated by the device position information of the received operation device, and wherein the circuitry instructs the specific telepresence robot to move to the position of the operation device.
6. The information processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the circuitry transmits, to the administrator terminal, cancel information to cancel the communication request if the remote communication is not started when a given period of time elapses from a start of measuring time.
7. The information processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the circuitry receives the cancellation request of the remote communication from the operation device, and wherein the circuitry transmits cancellation information canceling the communication request to the administrator terminal.
8. A telepresence robot capable of starting to operate in response to receiving a request from the information processing apparatus of claim 1, comprising: another circuitry configured to acquire an operation start request from the information processing apparatus; start to move the telepresence robot to a specific destination indicated by the acquired operation start request; and start a remote communication with an administrator terminal in response to receiving a request from the administrator terminal when the movement of the telepresence robot is started.
9. The telepresence robot of claim 8, further comprising: an image capture device configured to capture an image of a user who has performed the operation to the operation device when the another circuitry acquires the operation start request from the information processing apparatus; and wherein the another circuitry sets a position of the user included in the captured image as the specific movement destination, and wherein the another circuitry starts to move the specific telepresence robot to the specific movement destination.
10. The telepresence robot of claim 9, wherein when the operation device is mounted on the telepresence robot, the another circuitry sets the position of the user included in the captured image as the specific movement destination.
11. The telepresence robot of claim 8, wherein the another circuitry sets the position of operation device as the specific movement destination when the another circuitry acquires the operation start request from the information processing apparatus, and wherein the another circuitry starts to move the specific telepresence robot to the set specific movement destination.
12. The telepresence robot of claim 9, wherein when the operation device is disposed at a position in the site different from the telepresence robot, the another circuitry sets the position of the operation device as the specific movement destination.
13. The telepresence robot of claim 8, wherein the operation starting request includes mounting state information indicating whether the operation device is mounted on the telepresence robot or is disposed at the position different from the telepresence robot, wherein when the mounting state information indicates that the operation device is mounted on the telepresence robot, the another circuitry sets the position of the user included in the captured image as the specific movement destination, and wherein when the mounting state information indicates that the operation device is disposed at the position in the site different from the telepresence robot, the another circuitry sets the position of the operation device as the specific movement destination.
14. The telepresence robot of claim 8, wherein the another circuitry starts to move the telepresence robot to a given reference position when the remote communication is terminated.
15. The telepresence robot of claim 8, wherein the another circuitry notifies the communication state of the remote communication.
16. The telepresence robot of claim 15, wherein the another circuitry emits light using a lamp to display the communication state distinguishably.
17. The telepresence robot of claim 15, wherein the another circuitry displays information of an administrator who uses the administrator terminal, on a display.
18. A site control system comprising; the information processing apparatus of claim 1; and a telepresence robot configured to start an operation in response to receiving a request from the information processing apparatus.
19. A method of controlling an operation of a telepresence robot at a site, comprising: receiving notification information including device position information of an operation device at the site, the operation device being configured to receive an operation performed by a user; outputting an operation start request for moving to a specific movement destination, to a specific telepresence robot that is identified based on the device position information included in the received notification information and robot position information of the telepresence robot at the site; transmitting a communication request to an administrator terminal configured to perform a remote communication with the specific telepresence robot; instructing the specific telepresence robot to move to the specific movement destination; and starting a remote communication between the administrator terminal and the specific telepresence robot.
20. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more instructions that, when performed by one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to execute a method of controlling an operation of a telepresence robot at a site, the method comprising: receiving notification information including device position information of an operation device at the site, the operation device being configured to receive an operation performed by a user; outputting an operation start request for moving to a specific movement destination, to a specific telepresence robot that is identified based on the device position information included in the received notification information and robot position information of the telepresence robot at the site; transmitting a communication request to an administrator terminal configured to perform a remote communication with the specific telepresence robot; instructing the specific telepresence robot to move to the specific movement destination; and starting a remote communication between the administrator terminal and the specific telepresence robot.
</claims>
</document>
