<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/145,A61B5/1455
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAMKOONG, KAK
CHANG, KI YOUNG
NAM, JUNG YONG
LEE, YEOL HO
LEE, JOON HYUNG
JUNG, WON JONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68621113
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OPTICAL SENSOR, METHOD OF MEASURING OPTICAL SIGNAL, AND APPARATUS FOR ESTIMATING BLOOD CONCENTRATION OF ANALYTE
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is an optical sensor, including a light source configured to emit light; a photodetector array comprising a plurality of photodetectors positioned at different distances from the light source, each photodetector being configured to detect an optical signal returning from an object irradiated by the light emitted by the light source, and to measure a light intensity of the detected optical signal; and a processor configured to determine a correlation coefficient between variables based on the measured light intensity, and to determine a quality of the optical signal based on the determined correlation coefficient, an optical characteristic of the object being determined by selectively using the optical signal of which the quality is an acceptable level or higher.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An optical sensor comprising: a light source configured to emit light; a photodetector array comprising a plurality of photodetectors positioned at different distances from the light source, each photodetector being configured to detect an optical signal returning from an object irradiated by the light emitted by the light source, and to measure a light intensity of the detected optical signal; and a processor configured to determine a correlation coefficient between variables based on the measured light intensity, and to determine a quality of the optical signal based on the determined correlation coefficient.
2. The optical sensor of claim 1, wherein the variables are obtained from an equation for calculating an effective attenuation coefficient of the object irradiated by the light source.
3. The optical sensor of claim 1, wherein the correlation coefficient is a correlation coefficient between and ρ, wherein ρ denotes a distance between the light source and a photodetector of the plurality of photodetectors, R(ρ) denotes a light intensity measured by the photodetector positioned away from the light source by the distance ρ, and S0 denotes a light intensity emitted by the light source.
4. The optical sensor of claim 1, wherein the correlation coefficient is a correlation coefficient between R(ρ) and ρ−2, wherein ρ denotes a distance between the light source and a photodetector of the plurality of photodetectors, and R(ρ) denotes a light intensity measured by the photodetector positioned away from the light source by the distance ρ.
5. The optical sensor of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine that the quality of the optical signal is an acceptable level or higher based on the determined correlation coefficient exceeding a threshold.
6. The optical sensor of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to discard the measured light intensity based on a determination that the quality of the optical signal is less than an acceptable level.
7. An apparatus for estimating a blood concentration, the apparatus comprising: a light source configured to emit light; a photodetector array comprising a plurality of photodetectors positioned at different distances from the light source, each photodetector being configured to detect an optical signal returning from an object irradiated by the light emitted by the light source, and to measure a light intensity of the detected optical signal; and a processor configured to determine a correlation coefficient between variables based on the measured light intensity, to determine a quality of the optical signal based on the determined correlation coefficient, and based on a determination that the quality of the optical signal is an acceptable level or higher, to estimate a blood concentration of an analyte based on the measured light intensity.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the variables are obtained from an equation for calculating an effective attenuation coefficient of the object irradiated by the light source.
9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the correlation coefficient is a correlation coefficient between and ρ, wherein ρ denotes a distance between the light source and a photodetector of the plurality of photodetectors, R(ρ) denotes a light intensity measured by the photodetector positioned away from the light source by the distance ρ, and S0 denotes a light intensity emitted by the light source.
10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the correlation coefficient is a correlation coefficient between R(ρ) and ρ−2, wherein ρ denotes a distance between the light source and a photodetector of the plurality of photodetectors, and R(ρ) denotes a light intensity measured by the photodetector positioned away from the light source by the distance ρ.
11. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein: based on the determined correlation coefficient being greater than or equal to a threshold, the processor is further configured to determine that the quality of the optical signal is the acceptable level or higher; and based on the determined correlation coefficient being less than the threshold, the processor is further configured to determine that the quality of the optical signal is less than the acceptable level.
12. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein based on a determination that the quality of the optical signal is less than the acceptable level, the processor is further configured to discard the measured light intensity.
13. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a change in an optical characteristic of the object based on the detected optical signal, and estimate the blood concentration of the analyte by using the determined change in the optical characteristic of the object and a blood concentration estimation model.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the optical characteristic comprises at least one of a scattering coefficient or an effective attenuation coefficient.
15. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the analyte comprises at least one of glucose, triglyceride, cholesterol, protein, lactate, ethanol, uric acid, or ascorbic acid.
16. A method of measuring an optical signal, the method comprising: emitting, by a light source, light onto an object; detecting an optical signal returning from the object irradiated by the light emitted by the light source, and measuring a light intensity of the detected optical signal; determining a correlation coefficient between variables based on the measured light intensity; and determining a quality of the optical signal based on the determined correlation coefficient.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the variables are obtained from an equation for calculating an effective attenuation coefficient of the object irradiated by the light source.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the correlation coefficient is a correlation coefficient between and ρ, wherein ρ denotes a distance between the light source and a photodetector, R(ρ) denotes a light intensity measured by the photodetector positioned away from the light source by the distance ρ, and S0 denotes a light intensity emitted by the light source.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the correlation coefficient is a correlation coefficient between R(ρ) and ρ−2, wherein ρ denotes a distance between the light source and a photodetector, and R(ρ) denotes a light intensity measured by the photodetector positioned away from the light source by the distance ρ.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the determining of the quality of the optical signal comprises: comparing the determined correlation coefficient with a threshold; based on the determined correlation coefficient exceeding the threshold, determining that the quality of the optical signal is an acceptable level or higher; and based on the determined correlation coefficient being less than or equal to the threshold, determining that the quality of the optical signal is less than the acceptable level.
21. The method of claim 16, further comprising, based on the determined quality of the optical signal being less than an acceptable level, discarding the measured light intensity.
22. The method of claim 16, further comprising, based on the determined quality of the optical signal being less than an acceptable level, repeatedly performing the emitting of the light, the measuring of the light intensity, the determining of the correlation coefficient, and the determining of the quality of the optical signal.
</claims>
</document>
