<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9035,G06F16/909,G06F9/54,G08G1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FUKUDA, MARI A.
Hasegawa, Yuhko K.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72747912
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DELETION OF EVENTS BASED ON A PLURALITY OF FACTORS IN A CONNECTED CAR COMPUTING ENVIRONMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A computational device maintains indications of a plurality of events associated with navigation of a plurality of vehicles in a geographical area. A determination is made as to whether to delete an event from the plurality of events, by performing: transmitting, by an event deletion manager, a query to a plurality of deletion determination agents on whether to delete the event; receiving, by the event deletion manager, an indication from the plurality of deletion determination agents whether to delete the event; and aggregating, by the event deletion manager, indications received from the plurality of deletion determination agents to determine whether to delete the event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: maintaining, by a computational device, indications of a plurality of events associated with navigation of a plurality of vehicles in a geographical area, wherein at least one event of the plurality of events is generated by the computational device, in response to an identical automotive system being activated in at least a threshold number of different vehicles of the plurality of vehicles within a predetermined time interval; determining whether to delete an event from the plurality of events, by performing: transmitting, by an event deletion manager, a query to a plurality of deletion determination agents on whether to delete the event; receiving, by the event deletion manager, an indication from the plurality of deletion determination agents whether to delete the event; and aggregating, by the event deletion manager, indications received from the plurality of deletion determination agents to determine whether to delete the event.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the event is deleted from the plurality of events in response to determining by the event deletion manager that a majority of deletion determination agents have indicated that the event is to be deleted.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the event is deleted from the plurality of events in response to determining by the event deletion manager that more than a predetermined threshold percentage of deletion determination agents have indicated that the event is to be deleted.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the indication received by the event deletion manager from the plurality of deletion determination agents is one of: an indication to delete the event; an indication to not delete the event; and an indication that a determination cannot be made on whether to delete or not delete the event.
5. The method of claim 4, the method further comprising: in response to receiving by the event deletion manager, the indication from one or more selected deletion determination agents that a determination cannot be made on whether to delete or not delete the event, calculating an earliest decision time for the one or more selected deletion determination agents and requesting the one or more selected deletion determination agents to provide indication on whether to delete the event by applying a relaxed criteria for deleting the event, wherein the relaxed criteria makes it more likely to allow determination of whether to not to indicate deletion of events in comparison to a previously applied criteria.
6. The method of claim 5, the method further comprising: receiving, by the event deletion manager, indications from the one or more selected deletion determination agents based on the relaxed criteria, on whether or not to delete the event; and determining whether to delete the event based on indications received from the plurality of deletion determination agents.
7. A system, comprising: a memory; and a processor coupled to the memory, wherein the processor performs operations, the operations comprising: maintaining indications of a plurality of events associated with navigation of a plurality of vehicles in a geographical area, wherein at least one event of the plurality of events is generated by the computational device, in response to an identical automotive system being activated in at least a threshold number of different vehicles of the plurality of vehicles within a predetermined time interval; determining whether to delete an event from the plurality of events, by performing: transmitting, by an event deletion manager, a query to a plurality of deletion determination agents on whether to delete the event; receiving, by the event deletion manager, an indication from the plurality of deletion determination agents whether to delete the event; and aggregating, by the event deletion manager, indications received from the plurality of deletion determination agents to determine whether to delete the event.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the event is deleted from the plurality of events in response to determining by the event deletion manager that a majority of deletion determination agents have indicated that the event is to be deleted.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the event is deleted from the plurality of events in response to determining by the event deletion manager that more than a predetermined threshold percentage of deletion determination agents have indicated that the event is to be deleted.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein the indication received by the event deletion manager from the plurality of deletion determination agents is one of: an indication to delete the event; an indication to not delete the event; and an indication that a determination cannot be made on whether to delete or not delete the event.
11. The system of claim 10, the operations further comprising: in response to receiving by the event deletion manager, the indication from one or more selected deletion determination agents that a determination cannot be made on whether to delete or not delete the event, calculating an earliest decision time for the one or more selected deletion determination agents and requesting the one or more selected deletion determination agents to provide indication on whether to delete the event by applying a relaxed criteria for deleting the event, wherein the relaxed criteria makes it more likely to allow determination of whether to not to indicate deletion of events in comparison to a previously applied criteria.
12. The system of claim 11, the operations further comprising: receiving, by the event deletion manager, indications from the one or more selected deletion determination agents based on the relaxed criteria, on whether or not to delete the event; and determining whether to delete the event based on indications received from the plurality of deletion determination agents.
13. A computer program product, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith, the computer readable program code configured to perform operations, the operations comprising: maintaining, by a computational device, indications of a plurality of events associated with navigation of a plurality of vehicles in a geographical area, wherein at least one event of the plurality of events is generated by the computational device, in response to an identical automotive system being activated in at least a threshold number of different vehicles of the plurality of vehicles within a predetermined time interval; determining whether to delete an event from the plurality of events, by performing: transmitting, by an event deletion manager, a query to a plurality of deletion determination agents on whether to delete the event; receiving, by the event deletion manager, an indication from the plurality of deletion determination agents whether to delete the event; and aggregating, by the event deletion manager, indications received from the plurality of deletion determination agents to determine whether to delete the event.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the event is deleted from the plurality of events in response to determining by the event deletion manager that a majority of deletion determination agents have indicated that the event is to be deleted.
15. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the event is deleted from the plurality of events in response to determining by the event deletion manager that more than a predetermined threshold percentage of deletion determination agents have indicated that the event is to be deleted.
16. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the indication received by the event deletion manager from the plurality of deletion determination agents is one of: an indication to delete the event; an indication to not delete the event; and an indication that a determination cannot be made on whether to delete or not delete the event.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, the operations further comprising: in response to receiving by the event deletion manager, the indication from one or more selected deletion determination agents that a determination cannot be made on whether to delete or not delete the event, calculating an earliest decision time for the one or more selected deletion determination agents and requesting the one or more selected deletion determination agents to provide indication on whether to delete the event by applying a relaxed criteria for deleting the event, wherein the relaxed criteria makes it more likely to allow determination of whether to not to indicate deletion of events in comparison to a previously applied criteria.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, the operations further comprising: receiving, by the event deletion manager, indications from the one or more selected deletion determination agents based on the relaxed criteria, on whether or not to delete the event; and determining whether to delete the event based on indications received from the plurality of deletion determination agents.
19. A computational device including a processor, wherein the computational device is communicatively coupled to a plurality of vehicles, wherein the computational device performs operations, the operations comprising: maintaining indications of a plurality of events associated with navigation of the plurality of vehicles in a geographical area, wherein at least one event of the plurality of events is generated by the computational device, in response to an identical automotive system being activated in at least a threshold number of different vehicles of the plurality of vehicles within a predetermined time interval; determining whether to delete an event from the plurality of events, by performing: transmitting, by an event deletion manager, a query to a plurality of deletion determination agents on whether to delete the event; receiving, by the event deletion manager, an indication from the plurality of deletion determination agents whether to delete the event; and aggregating, by the event deletion manager, indications received from the plurality of deletion determination agents to determine whether to delete the event.
20. The computational device of claim 19, wherein the event is deleted from the plurality of events in response to determining by the event deletion manager that a majority of deletion determination agents have indicated that the event is to be deleted.
21. The computational device of claim 19, wherein the event is deleted from the plurality of events in response to determining by the event deletion manager that more than a predetermined threshold percentage of deletion determination agents have indicated that the event is to be deleted.
22. The computational device of claim 19, wherein the indication received by the event deletion manager from the plurality of deletion determination agents is one of: an indication to delete the event; an indication to not delete the event; and an indication that a determination cannot be made on whether to delete or not delete the event.
23. The computational device of claim 22, the operations further comprising: in response to receiving by the event deletion manager, the indication from one or more selected deletion determination agents that a determination cannot be made on whether to delete or not delete the event, calculating an earliest decision time for the one or more selected deletion determination agents and requesting the one or more selected deletion determination agents to provide indication on whether to delete the event by applying a relaxed criteria for deleting the event, wherein the relaxed criteria makes it more likely to allow determination of whether to not to indicate deletion of events in comparison to a previously applied criteria.
24. The computational device of claim 23, the operations further comprising: receiving, by the event deletion manager, indications from the one or more selected deletion determination agents based on the relaxed criteria, on whether or not to delete the event; and determining whether to delete the event based on indications received from the plurality of deletion determination agents.
25. The computational device of claim 19, wherein the computational device and the plurality of vehicles are included in a cloud computing environment.
</claims>
</document>
