<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06T15/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHAMELEON POWER
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEMPSEY, DANIEL J.
WESTRICK, WILLIAM A.
Kenyon, Philip
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73551468
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISTRIBUTED COMPUTING SYSTEMS, GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACES, AND PROCESSOR-EXECUTABLE LOGIC FOR PROVISIONING PHI-BASED COLOR EVALUATION AND HARMONIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
Presented are computing systems and control logic for provisioning quantitative color analysis to derive color harmony, devices for executing such logic, and methods for operating such systems/devices. A method of analyzing color selections to generate matching colors includes transmitting, via a server computer over a distributed computing network to a user's personal computing device, multiple user-selectable colors organized as discrete hues distributed over a human-perceivable visible spectrum. The server computer receives the user's selection(s) from the user-selectable colors, which includes one or more of the discrete hues. These selection(s) is/are imported into a device-independent, three-axis color space model; a geometric object characterized by the mathematical golden ratio is built into the color space model. The server computer generates a list of colors harmonized with the user-selected color(s) by correlating the geometric object with the discrete hue(s) in the color space model. The user's personal computing device displays the harmonized colors.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of calculating matching colors for color data input by a user, the method comprising: receiving, by a computer device from the user via a human-machine interface, a plurality of color data files corresponding to user-input target colors; transforming, via the computer device, each of the color data files into a respective color coordinate point integrable with a three-axis color space model; importing the color coordinate points into the three-axis color space model; building, within the three-axis color space model, a golden geometric object based on a mathematical golden ratio and the imported color coordinate points; identifying, via the computer device, a list of one or more matching colors harmonized with the color data files by correlating the golden geometric object with the color coordinate points imported into the three-axis color space model; and transmitting, to an electronic display device, a command signal to display to the user the list of one or more matching colors.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the three-axis color space model is a device-independent three-dimensional (3D) color space configured to define colors independently of how the colors are created or displayed.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein transforming each of the color data files into a respective color coordinate points includes identifying, for each of the color data files, a respective L*a*b color coordinate set, the L*a*b color coordinate set including a first coordinate L* for a first axis of the 3D color space, a second coordinate a* for a second axis of the 3D color space, and a third coordinate b* for a axis of the 3D color space.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the golden geometric object includes a golden rectangle in which a ratio between a short side length and a long side length of the golden rectangle is approximately equal to 1.618.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the golden geometric object further includes a golden spiral located within the golden rectangle and having a logarithmic growth factor of approximately 1.618.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the golden geometric object includes a golden triangle in which a ratio between a short length of two short sides of the golden triangle and a long length of a long side of the golden triangle is approximately equal to 1.618, the golden triangle having an isosceles triangle shape.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising locating the golden geometric object within the three-axis color space model such that all of the color coordinate points are located within or on a boundary line of the golden geometric object.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: defining a color curve within the golden geometric object; and moving the color curve to intersect with the color coordinate points in the three-axis color space model.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: defining a plurality of neighboring regions within the golden geometric object; and determining, for each of the color data files, within which one of the regions the color curve intersects with the corresponding color coordinate point in the three-axis color space model.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving a selection of a desired color type from the user; and determining, for each of the color data files based on the desired color type received from the user, a respective rule set associated with the region within which the color curve intersects with the corresponding color coordinate point, wherein the rule sets define a manner in which a matching color is located with respect to the color coordinate point within the three-axis color space model based on phi.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying to the user a predefined set of user-selectable color options each corresponding to a respective color data file, wherein receiving the color data files includes receiving, from the user via the human-machine interface, multiple user selections from the predefined set of user-selectable color options.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer device includes a server-class computer and the human-machine interface includes a personal computing device and/or an optical color sensor communicatively connected to the server-class computer over a distributed computing network.
13. A computing system for identifying matching colors for color data input by a user, the distributed computing system comprising: a memory device storing a three-axis color space model; a communications device operable to communicate with a personal computing device of a user over a computing network; and a server computer with a processor communicatively connected to the memory device and the communications device, the processor being programmed to: receive, from the user via the personal computing device, a plurality of color data files corresponding to user-input target colors; transform each of the received color data files into a respective color coordinate point integrable with the three-axis color space model; import the color coordinate points into the three-axis color space model; build, within the three-axis color space model, a golden geometric object based on a mathematical golden ratio and the imported color coordinate points; identify a list of one or more matching colors harmonized with the color data files by correlating the golden geometric object with the color coordinate points imported into the three-axis color space model; and transmit, to the personal computing device of the user for display via an electronic display device, the list of the one or more matching colors.
14. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the three-axis color space model is a device-independent three-dimensional (3D) color space configured to define colors independently of how the colors are created or displayed.
15. The computing system of claim 14, wherein transforming the color data files into respective color coordinate points includes identifying, for each of the color data files, a respective L*a*b color coordinate set, the L*a*b color coordinate set including a first coordinate L* for a first axis of the 3D color space, a second coordinate a* for a second axis of the 3D color space, and a third coordinate b* for a third axis of the 3D color space.
16. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the golden geometric object includes a golden rectangle in which a ratio between a short side length and a long side length of the golden rectangle is approximately equal to 1.618.
17. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the golden geometric object further includes a golden spiral located within the golden rectangle and having a logarithmic growth factor of approximately 1.618.
18. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the processor of the server computer is further programmed to: define a color curve within the golden geometric object; and move the color curve to intersect with the color coordinate points in the three-axis color space model.
19. The computing system of claim 18, wherein the processor of the server computer is further programmed to: define a plurality of neighboring regions within the golden geometric object; and determine, for each of the color data files, within which one of the regions the color curve intersects with the corresponding color coordinate point in the three-axis color space model.
20. The computing system of claim 19, wherein the processor of the server computer is further programmed to: receive, from the personal computing device of the user, a desired color type; and determine, for each of the color data files based on the desired color type received from the user, a respective rule set associated with the region within which the color curve intersects with the corresponding color coordinate point, wherein the rule sets define a manner in which a matching color is located with respect to the color coordinate point within the three-axis color space model based on phi.
</claims>
</document>
