<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OSARO
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOW, YINLAM
ROHANIMANESH, KHASHAYAR
TAMAR, AVIV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69228124
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computerized Imitation Learning from Visual Data with Multiple Intentions
</title>

<abstract>
A computer system uses Learning from Demonstration (LfD) techniques in which a multitude of tasks are demonstrated without requiring careful task set up, labeling, and engineering, and learns multiple modes of behavior from visual data, rather than averaging the multiple modes. As a result, the computer system may be used to control a robot or other system to exhibit the multiple modes of behavior in appropriate circumstances.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by at least one computer processor executing computer program instructions stored on at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium, the method comprising: (A) receiving, as input, demonstration data representing a plurality of demonstrations of a physical task, wherein the demonstration data includes visual data representing a plurality of images of the plurality of demonstrations of the physical task over time, wherein the demonstration data does not include labels associated with the physical task; (B) using a deep neural network to generate, based on the demonstration data, learned behavior data exhibiting multiple modes of behavior.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein (A) comprises capturing the plurality of images of the plurality of demonstrations of the physical task over time using at least video capture component to generate at least part of the visual data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein (B) comprises using Learning from Demonstrations (LfD) techniques to generate the learned behavior data.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein using LfD techniques to generate the learned behavior data comprises using a stochastic deep neural network (SNN), which represents an underlying intention in the demonstration data as a stochastic activation in the SNN, to generate the learned behavior data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein (B) comprises fitting a probabilistic model having a plurality of modes to the demonstration data, wherein a first one of the plurality of modes is associated with a first one of the plurality of demonstrations, and wherein a second one of the plurality of modes is associated with a second one of the plurality of demonstrations that is distinct from the first one of the plurality of demonstrations, and including the probabilistic model in the learned behavior data.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein Learning from Demonstrations (LfD) techniques are used to fit the probabilistic model to the demonstration data.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein using LfD techniques to generate the learned behavior data comprises using a stochastic deep neural network (SNN), which represents an underlying intention in the demonstration data as a stochastic activation in the SNN, to generate the learned behavior data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein (B) comprises generating, based on the demonstration data, data representing a set of features of the demonstration data.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein generating the data representing the set of features comprises using a stack of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to generate the data representing the set of features.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein (B) further comprises using a stochastic intention component to specify, based on the demonstration data, a plurality of modes representing the plurality of demonstrations of the physical task.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein (B) further comprises: (B)(1) receiving as input the set of features; (B)(2) applying an attention mask generated by the stochastic intention component to the set of features; and (B)(3) combining a product of the attention mask and the set of features with an internal state of a machine that performed the plurality of demonstrations of the physical task to produce a control signal as output.
11. A system comprising at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium containing computer program instructions executable by at least one computer processor, the method comprising: (A) receiving, as input, demonstration data representing a plurality of demonstrations of a physical task, wherein the demonstration data includes visual data representing a plurality of images of the plurality of demonstrations of the physical task over time, wherein the demonstration data does not include labels associated with the physical task; (B) using a deep neural network to generate, based on the demonstration data, learned behavior data exhibiting multiple modes of behavior.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein (A) comprises capturing the plurality of images of the plurality of demonstrations of the physical task over time using at least video capture component to generate at least part of the visual data.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein (B) comprises using Learning from Demonstrations (LfD) techniques to generate the learned behavior data.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein using LfD techniques to generate the learned behavior data comprises using a stochastic deep neural network (SNN), which represents an underlying intention in the demonstration data as a stochastic activation in the SNN, to generate the learned behavior data.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein (B) comprises fitting a probabilistic model having a plurality of modes to the demonstration data, wherein a first one of the plurality of modes is associated with a first one of the plurality of demonstrations, and wherein a second one of the plurality of modes is associated with a second one of the plurality of demonstrations that is distinct from the first one of the plurality of demonstrations, and including the probabilistic model in the learned behavior data.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein Learning from Demonstrations (LfD) techniques are used to fit the probabilistic model to the demonstration data.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein using LfD techniques to generate the learned behavior data comprises using a stochastic deep neural network (SNN), which represents an underlying intention in the demonstration data as a stochastic activation in the SNN, to generate the learned behavior data.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein (B) comprises generating, based on the demonstration data, data representing a set of features of the demonstration data.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein generating the data representing the set of features comprises using a stack of convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to generate the data representing the set of features.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein (B) further comprises using a stochastic intention component to specify, based on the demonstration data, a plurality of modes representing the plurality of demonstrations of the physical task.
20. The system of claim 10, wherein (B) further comprises: (B)(1) receiving as input the set of features; (B)(2) applying an attention mask generated by the stochastic intention component to the set of features; and (B)(3) combining a product of the attention mask and the set of features with an internal state of a machine that performed the plurality of demonstrations of the physical task to produce a control signal as output.
</claims>
</document>
