<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/248
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SPLUNK
</assignee>

<inventors>
BERINGER, JOERG
PARK, ISABELLE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65809146
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CROSS-SYSTEM JOURNEY MONITORING BASED ON RELATION OF MACHINE DATA
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are disclosed for cross-system journey modeling based on relation of machine data. An example method includes obtaining information describing a user journey that includes multiple steps, each step corresponding to a query to be applied to one or more field-searchable data stores storing events, each event including a portion of machine data that reflects activity in an information technology environment and that is produced by a component of that information technology environment, and each event being associated with a timestamp extracted from the portion of machine data of that event. Events returned as a result of the query of each step are related. The results of the relating are displayed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. (canceled)
2. A method implemented using a computing device, comprising: receiving, at the computing device, a first identifier associated with a first field, wherein the first field is associated with a step of a set of steps of a process in an information technology environment; receiving a second identifier associated with a second field, wherein values associated with the second field relate steps performed in one or more parts of the information technology environment to the process; identifying a plurality of events, wherein an event of the plurality of events includes a first field value for the first field and a second field value for the second field, wherein the plurality of events describe actions performed in the information technology environment, and wherein the plurality of events includes one or more events from different data sources; relating a set of events of the plurality of events, wherein relating causes the event to be included in the set of events, and wherein the event is included in the set of events based on event including the second field value; associating the set of events with one or more steps of the process, wherein the event is associated with the step based on the event including the first field value; and outputting a result of associating the set of events with the one or more steps of the process.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the event is a first event associated with a first data source, and wherein a second event of the set of events is associated with a second data source.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the set of events comprises events associated with a same entity.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the second identifier is a session identifier.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the second identifier is a user identifier.
7. The method of claim 2, further comprising ordering the one or more steps based on a timestamp associated with the set of events.
8. The method of claim 2, wherein outputting the result includes causing display of the one or more steps in an order based on timestamps associated with the set of events.
9. The method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving a third identifier associated with a third field, wherein the set of events includes a second event that includes a third field value of the third field, and wherein relating the set of events causes the second event to be included in the set of events based on the second event including the third field value.
10. The method of claim 2, wherein a first subset of the set of events are associated with a first data source, each event of the first subset comprising first identifying information, wherein a second subset of the set of events are associated with a second data source, each event of the second subset comprising second identifying information, and wherein the first subset is related to the second subset based on a third subset of the set of events, each event of the third subset comprising the first identifying information and the second identifying information.
11. The method of claim 2, wherein the first identifier is associated with a first data source, and further comprising: receiving a third identifier associated with a third field, wherein the third identifier is associated with a second data source, wherein a second event of the set of events includes a third field value for the third field.
12. The method of claim 2, wherein outputting the result includes causing display of a graphical depiction of the steps of the process.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the graphical depiction includes statistical information associated with a step of the steps of the process.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the graphical depiction indicates transition information associated with transitions between the steps of the process.
15. The method of claim 2, further comprising: outputting a second result of associating a second set of events with additional one or more steps of the process, wherein output produced by outputting the result and the second result combines the result and the second result into a unified graphical depiction.
16. A computing system, comprising: one or more processing devices configured to: receiving a first identifier associated with a first field, wherein the first field is associated with a step of a set of steps of a process in an information technology environment; receiving a second identifier associated with a second field, wherein values associated with the second field relate steps performed in one or more parts of the information technology environment to the process; identifying a plurality of events, wherein an event of the plurality of events includes a first field value for the first field and a second field value for the second field, wherein the plurality of events describe actions performed in the information technology environment, and wherein the plurality of events includes one or more events from different data sources; relating a set of events of the plurality of events, wherein relating causes the event to be included in the set of events, and wherein the event is included in the set of events based on event including the second field value; associating the set of events with one or more steps of the process, wherein the event is associated with the step based on the event including the first field value; and outputting a result of associating the set of events with the one or more steps of the process.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the processing devices are further configured to: receive a third identifier associated with a third field, wherein the set of events includes a second event that includes a third field value of the third field, and wherein relating the set of events causes the second event to be included in the set of events based on the second event including the third field value.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein a first subset of the set of events are associated with a first data source, each event of the first subset comprising first identifying information, wherein a second subset of the set of events are associated with a second data source, each event of the second subset comprising second identifying information, and wherein the first subset is related to the second subset based on a third subset of the set of events, each event of the third subset comprising the first identifying information and the second identifying information.
19. Non-transitory computer readable media comprising computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a computing system, cause the computing system to perform operations comprising: receiving a first identifier associated with a first field, wherein the first field is associated with a step of a set of steps of a process in an information technology environment; receiving a second identifier associated with a second field, wherein values associated with the second field relate steps performed in one or more parts of the information technology environment to the process; identifying a plurality of events, wherein an event of the plurality of events includes a first field value for the first field and a second field value for the second field, wherein the plurality of events describe actions performed in the information technology environment, and wherein the plurality of events includes one or more events from different data sources; relating a set of events of the plurality of events, wherein relating causes the event to be included in the set of events, and wherein the event is included in the set of events based on event including the second field value; associating the set of events with one or more steps of the process, wherein the event is associated with the step based on the event including the first field value; and outputting a result of associating the set of events with the one or more steps of the process.
20. The computer readable media of claim 19, wherein the operations further comprise: receive a third identifier associated with a third field, wherein the set of events includes a second event that includes a third field value of the third field, and wherein relating the set of events causes the second event to be included in the set of events based on the second event including the third field value.
21. The computer readable media of claim 19, wherein a first subset of the set of events are associated with a first data source, each event of the first subset comprising first identifying information, wherein a second subset of the set of events are associated with a second data source, each event of the second subset comprising second identifying information, and wherein the first subset is related to the second subset based on a third subset of the set of events, each event of the third subset comprising the first identifying information and the second identifying information.
</claims>
</document>
