<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/418,G06F13/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNITED MICROELECTRONICS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHIH, LIAN-HUA
HU, FA-FU
CHEN, CHIH-CHENG
YANG, Li-Hsin
LIN, Yu-Chi
LIN, Ssu-Chieh
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70277205
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REMOTE SERVER, REMOTE CONTROL SYSTEM AND REMOTE CONTROL METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A remote server, a remote control system and a remote control method are provided. The remote server includes a connector and a processor. The connector is connected to a KVM switch. The KVM switch is connected to at least two machines. The connector receives a plurality of screen images of the machines through the KVM switch, wherein the screen images are respectively captured at the machines. The processor generates a plurality of control instructions according to the screen images, respectively. The control instructions are transmitted from the connector to the machines through the KVM switch, respectively.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A remote server, comprising: a connector, connected to a keyboard-video-mouse (KVM) switch, wherein the KVM switch is connected to at least two machines, the connector individually receives a plurality of screen images of the machines through the KVM switch, and the screen images are respectively captured at the machines; and a processor, generating a plurality of control instructions according to the screen images, respectively, wherein the control instructions are respectively transmitted from the connector to the machines through the KVM switch.
2. The remote server according to claim 1, wherein a display is connected to the remote server; when the machines transmit the screen images to the remote server, the display maintains an original display content or remains in a turned off state.
3. The remote server according to claim 1, wherein the processor further transmits a plurality of image request instructions from the connector to the machines through the KVM switch, respectively, such that the machines respectively capture the screen images according to the image request instructions.
4. The remote server according to claim 1, wherein the processor sets a screenshot time point of each of the image request instructions according to each of the screen images.
5. The remote server according to claim 1, wherein each of the screen images is a screenshot of a screen of each of the machines.
6. The remote server according to claim 1, wherein the screen images are transmitted to the remote server by time-division multiplexing.
7. The remote server according to claim 1, wherein the remote server corresponds to the screen images to the machines according to a plurality of connection port identifiers of the KVM switch.
8. The remote server according to claim 1, wherein the control instructions are transmitted to the machines by time-division multiplexing.
9. A remote control system, comprising: at least two machines; a keyboard-video-mouse (KVM) switch; and a remote server, comprising: a connector, connected to the KVM switch, wherein the KVM switch is connected to the machines, the connector individually receives a plurality of screen images of the machines through the KVM switch, and the screen images are respectively captured at the machines; and a processor, generating a plurality of control instructions according to the screen images, respectively, wherein the control instructions are respectively transmitted from the connector to the machines through the KVM switch.
10. The remote control system according to claim 9, wherein when the machines transmit the screen images to the remote server, the display maintains an original display content or remains in a turned off state.
11. The remote control system according to claim 9, wherein the processor 4further transmits a plurality of image request instructions from the connector to the machines through the KVM switch, respectively, such that the machines respectively capture the screen images according to the image request instructions.
12. The remote control system according to claim 9, wherein the processor sets a screenshot time point of each of the image request instructions according to each of the screen images.
13. The remote control system according to claim 9, wherein each of the screen images is a screenshot of a screen of each of the machines.
14. The remote control system according to claim 9, wherein the screen images are transmitted to the remote server by time-division multiplexing.
15. The remote control system according to claim 9, wherein the remote server corresponds to the screen images to the machines according to a plurality of connection port identifiers of the KVM switch.
16. The remote control system according to claim 9, wherein the control instructions are transmitted to the machines by time-division multiplexing.
17. A remote control method, comprising: connecting at least two machines and a remote server through a keyboard-video-mouse (KVM) switch; capturing a plurality screen images at the machines, respectively; transmitting the screen images from the machines to the remove server through the KVM switch; generating, by the remote server, a plurality of control instructions according to the screen images, respectively; and transmitting the control instructions to the machines through the KVM switch.
18. The remote control method according to claim 17, wherein when the machines transmit the screen images to the remote server, a display of the remote server maintains an original display content or the display of the remote server remains in a turned off state.
19. The remote control method according to claim 18, further comprising: transmitting a plurality of image request instructions from the connector to the machines through the KVM switch, respectively, such that the machines respectively capture the screen images according to the image request instructions.
20. The remote control method according to claim 18, further comprising: the remote server setting a screenshot time point of each of the image request instructions according to each of the screen images.
21. The remote control method according to claim 18, wherein each of the screen images is a screenshot of a screen of each of the machines.
22. The remote control method according to claim 18, wherein the screen images are transmitted to the remote server by time-division multiplexing.
23. The remote control method according to claim 18, wherein the remote server corresponds to the screen images to the machines according to a plurality of connection port identifiers of the KVM switch.
24. The remote control method according to claim 18, wherein the control instructions are transmitted to the machines by time-division multiplexing.
</claims>
</document>
