<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/16,G16C20/20,G16C20/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RECURSION PHARMACEUTICALS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GIBSON, CHRIS
HEALEY, DAVID
ALFA, RONALD WAKIM
QUIGLEY, IAN
BORGESON, BLAKE C.
VICTORS, MASON L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70549951
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR HIGH THROUGHPUT COMPOUND LIBRARY CREATION
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure provides methods and systems for identifying a subset of compounds in a plurality of compounds. The identifying includes obtaining, for each compound, a vector including a set of elements, where each element includes a measurement of a different feature of an instance of a cell context upon exposure to the compound. The identifying includes repeating the obtaining for a plurality of cell contexts, to obtain a plurality of vectors for each compound across different cell contexts. The identifying includes combining the vectors for each compound to form a combined vector for each compound, thereby forming a plurality of combined vectors representing different compounds. The identifying includes pruning the plurality of compounds to the subset of compounds based on a similarity between respective combined vectors in the plurality of combined vectors corresponding to compounds in the plurality of compounds.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system for identifying a subset of compounds in a plurality of compounds, the computer system comprising: one or more processors; a memory; and one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory and are configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including instructions for: (A) obtaining, for each respective compound in the plurality of compounds, a corresponding vector, thereby obtaining a corresponding plurality of vectors, wherein: each respective vector in the corresponding plurality of vectors comprises a corresponding set of elements, and each respective element in the corresponding set of elements comprises a measurement of a different feature in a plurality of features, across a plurality of instances of a cell context in a plurality of cell contexts upon exposure of an amount of the respective compound to the plurality of instances of the cell context using one or more multi-well plates comprising a plurality of wells; (B) repeating the obtaining (A) for each cell context in the plurality of cell contexts, thereby obtaining for each respective compound in the plurality of compounds, a plurality of vectors, each vector in the plurality of vectors for the plurality of features across a different cell context in the plurality of cell contexts; (C) combining, for each respective compound in the plurality of compounds, the plurality of vectors for the respective compound to form a combined vector for the respective compound, thereby forming a plurality of combined vectors, each combined vector in the plurality of combined vectors representing a different compound in the plurality of compounds; and (D) pruning the plurality of compounds to the subset of compounds based on a similarity between respective combined vectors in the plurality of combined vectors corresponding to respective compounds in the plurality of compounds.
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein a respective element in the set of elements comprises a fluorescent microscopy measurement of a respective feature in the plurality of features.
3. (canceled)
4. (canceled)
5. The computer system of claim 1, wherein each feature in the plurality of features represents a color, texture, or size of the cell or an enumerated portion of the cell context upon exposure of the cell context to the amount of the respective compound.
6. The computer system of claim 1, wherein each respective instance of the plurality of instances of the cell context is imaged to form a corresponding two-dimensional pixelated image having a corresponding plurality of native pixel values and wherein a feature in the plurality of features comprises a result of a convolution or a series of convolutions and pooling operators run against native pixel values in the plurality of native pixel values of the corresponding two-dimensional pixelated image.
7. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the exposure of the respective compound to the plurality of instances of the cell context is done in the presence of one or more optical emitting entity.
8. The computer system of claim 7, wherein the one or more optical emitting compounds are dyes and wherein the vector for each respective compound in the plurality of compounds includes respective measurements of features in the plurality of features for the cell context in the presence of each of at least three different dyes.
9. (canceled)
10. The computer system of claim 1, wherein a first amount of the respective compound is tested in a first subset of the plurality of instances of the cell context, and a second amount of the respective compound is tested in a second subset of the plurality of instances of the cell context.
11. (canceled)
12. (canceled)
13. (canceled)
14. (canceled)
15. (canceled)
16. (canceled)
17. The computer system of claim 1, wherein a subset of the wells in the plurality of wells in each multi-well plate in the one or more multi-well plates comprise an aliquot of cells of the cell context that have not been exposed to the respective compound, and the measurement of the different feature in the plurality of features, across the plurality of instances of the cell context that has been exposed to the amount of the respective compound, is normalized by a mean of the different feature measured across the instances of the wells in the subset of wells that contain the cell context that have not been exposed to the respective compound.
18. (canceled)
19. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises reducing a dimension of each vector in the plurality of vectors using a dimension reduction technique.
20. The computer system of claim 19, wherein the dimension reduction technique is principal component analysis in which a plurality of principal components is identified based on a variance in the measurement of each different feature in the plurality of features, for a cell context in the plurality of cell contexts, across each compound in the plurality of compounds, and each respective vector in the plurality of concatenated vectors for the cell context is re-expressed as a projection of the respective concatenated vector onto the plurality of principal components.
21. The computer system of claim 20, wherein each respective principal component in the plurality of principal components is associated with a corresponding eigenvalue, and each respective principal component in the plurality of principal components is normalized by the square root of the corresponding eigenvalue prior to using the plurality of principal components to reexpress each respective vector in the plurality of vectors.
22. The computer system of claim 21, wherein a subset of the wells in the plurality of wells in each multi-well plate in the one or more multi-well plates comprise an aliquot of cells of the cell context that have not been exposed to the respective compound, and each respective element in the respective vector is normalized by a measure of central tendency of the respective element in the vectors representing the subset of the wells that contain the cell context that have not been exposed to the respective compound prior to applying the dimension reduction technique.
23. (canceled)
24. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the one or more programs further include instructions for: (1) for each respective compound in the plurality of compounds: for each respective cell context in the plurality of cell contexts: computing an angle between each vector representing the respective compound in the respective cell context thereby forming a distribution of angles for the respective compound for the respective cell context, and determining a distribution p-value for the distribution of angles for the respective compound for the respective cell context; and (B) eliminating any compound from the plurality of compounds that fails a p-value distribution threshold for each cell context in the plurality of cell contexts.
25. (canceled)
26. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the pruning the plurality of compounds to the subset of compounds based on the similarity between the combined vectors corresponding to the plurality of compounds (D) is performed by a procedure that comprises: (a) computing a geometric relationship between respective combined vector pairs in the plurality of combine vectors for all respective pairs of compounds in the plurality of compounds, (b) identifying a pair of compounds, consisting of a first compound and a second compound, from the computing (a) that has a closest geometric relationship, (c) discarding a compound in the pair of compounds identified in the last instance of the identifying (b) that has a closest geometric relationship with respect to the combined vector of another compound remaining in the plurality of compounds, and (d) repeating the identifying (b) and the discarding (c) until a threshold number of compounds have been pruned from the plurality of compounds or a number of compounds in the subset of compounds satisfies a threshold value.
27. The computer system of claim 26, wherein the geometric relationship between the respective combined vector pairs is weighted based on a property of the first compound and the second compound.
28. The computer system of claim 26, wherein: the geometric relationship is an angle formed between the respective combined vector pairs; and the closest geometric relationship with respect to the combined vector of another compound remaining in the plurality of compounds is the smallest angle formed between (i) the combined vector for the first compound or the combined vector for the second compound and (ii) the combined vector for the closest combined vector for another compound remaining in the plurality of compounds.
29. The computer system of claim 26, wherein the geometric relationship between the respective combined vector pairs is an angular distance computed as: and wherein, Ai is an element i in a first combined vector, in the plurality of combined vectors, that represents a first compound in a compound pair, Bi is an element i in a second combined vector, in the plurality of combined vectors, that represents a second compound in the compound pair, and n is a number of elements common between the first combined vector and the second combined vector.
30. (canceled)
31. (canceled)
32. The computer system of claim 1, wherein a first cell context in the plurality of cell contexts consists of a first cell type and a second cell context in the plurality of cell contexts consist of the first cell type exposed to a perturbing agent.
33. The computer system of claim 32, wherein the perturbing agent is a toxin, a cytokine, a predetermined drug, a siRNA, a sgRNA, a different cell time, a cell type from a different donor, or a cell culture condition.
34. The computer system of claim 1, wherein a first cell context in the plurality of cell contexts consists of a first native cell type and a second cell context in the plurality of cell contexts consist of the first native cell type that has incurred a genetic modification.
35. (canceled)
36. (canceled)
37. (canceled)
38. The computer system of claim 1, wherein each feature in the plurality of features is an optical feature that is optically measured.
39. (canceled)
40. The computer system of claim 1, wherein each feature in the plurality of features is a feature that is non-optically measured.
41. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the dimension reduction method comprises: (i) applying a kernel function to the respective measurement of each measured different feature in the plurality of features, for a cell context in the plurality of cell contexts, across each compound in the plurality of compounds, thereby deriving a kernel matrix, and (ii) applying principal component analysis to the kernel matrix thereby identifying a plurality of principal components and wherein each respective vector in the plurality of combined vectors for the cell context is re-expressed as a projection of the respective combined vector onto the plurality of principal components.
42. A method for identifying a subset of compounds in a plurality of compounds, the method comprising: at computer system comprising one or more processors and a memory: (A) obtaining, for each respective compound in the plurality of compounds, a corresponding vector, thereby obtaining a corresponding plurality of vectors, wherein: each respective vector in the corresponding plurality of vectors comprises a corresponding set of elements, and each respective element in the corresponding set of elements comprises a measurement of a different feature in a plurality of features, across a plurality of instances of a cell context in a plurality of cell contexts upon exposure of an amount of the respective compound to the plurality of instances of the cell context using one or more of multi-well plates comprising a plurality of wells; (B) repeating the obtaining (A) for each cell context in the plurality of cell contexts, thereby obtaining for each respective compound in the plurality of compounds, a plurality of vectors, each vector in the plurality of vectors for the plurality of features across a different cell context in the plurality of cell contexts; (C) combining, for each respective compound in the plurality of compounds, the plurality of vectors for the respective compound to form a combined vector for the respective compound, thereby forming a plurality of combined vectors, each combined vector in the plurality of combined vectors representing a different compound in the plurality of compounds; and (D) pruning the plurality of compounds to the subset of compounds based on a similarity between respective combined vector pairs in the plurality of combined vectors corresponding to respective compound pairs in the plurality of compounds.
43. A nontransitory computer readable storage medium and one or more computer programs embedded therein for identifying a subset of compounds in a plurality of compounds, the one or more computer programs comprising instructions which, when executed by a computer system, cause the computer system to perform a method comprising: (A) obtaining, for each respective compound in the plurality of compounds, a corresponding vector, thereby obtaining a corresponding plurality of vectors, wherein each respective vector in the corresponding plurality of vectors comprises a corresponding set of elements, and each respective element in the corresponding set of elements comprises a measurement of a different feature in a plurality of features, across a plurality of instances of a cell context in a plurality of cell contexts upon exposure of an amount of the respective compound to the plurality of instances of the cell context using one or more multi-well plates comprising a plurality of wells; (B) repeating the obtaining (A) for each cell context in the plurality of cell contexts, thereby obtaining for each respective compound in the plurality of compounds, a plurality of vectors, each vector in the plurality of vectors for the plurality of features across a different cell context in the plurality of cell contexts; (C) combining, for each respective compound in the plurality of compounds, the plurality of vectors for the respective compound to form a combined vector for the respective compound, thereby forming a plurality of combined vectors, each combined vector in the plurality of combined vectors representing a different compound in the plurality of compounds; and (D) pruning the plurality of compounds to the subset of compounds based on a similarity between respective combined vector pairs in the plurality of combined vectors corresponding to respective compound pairs in the plurality of compounds.
</claims>
</document>
