<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06F16/35,G06F40/216,G06F40/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOGDAN, PAMELA
GRESSEL, GARY
RUBARKH, ALEX
SHIRLEY, KENNETH
RESER, GARY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60942123
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA ANALYTICS SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR TEXT DATA
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, a process that performs a statistical, natural-language processing analysis on a group of text documents to determine a group of topics. The topics are determined according to parameters obtained by training on a sample of documents. One or more topics in a subset of topics are associated to each document, resulting in topic-document pairs. A bias is identified for each topic-document pair, and clusters of topics are created from the subset of topics. Each cluster of topics is determined from a value for each bias of each topic-document pair and from a frequency of occurrence of each topic. Each cluster is presentable according to a corresponding image configuration based on all or a subset of the bias dimensions and the frequency of occurrence of topics in a cluster that distinguishes the cluster from other clusters. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: performing a statistical, natural-language processing analysis on a plurality of text documents to determine a plurality of topics; associating a topic of the plurality of topics with each document in the plurality of text documents, thereby creating a plurality of topic-document pairs; identifying a respective bias for each of the plurality of topic-document pairs, resulting in a plurality of biases; and creating a plurality of topic clusters based on the plurality of topics and the plurality of biases.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein for each of the plurality of topic-document pairs, the respective bias is determined from text in a document identified by that topic-document pair.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the plurality of topic clusters are determined based on a frequency of occurrence of each topic in the respective document identified by each of the plurality of topic-document pairs.
4. The device of claim 3, wherein the plurality of topic clusters have an image configuration based on the plurality of biases and the frequency of occurrence of each topic that distinguishes one topic cluster of the plurality of topic clusters from another.
5. The device of claim 4, wherein the image configuration comprises size, shape, color coding, or any combination thereof.
6. The device of claim 4, wherein the image configuration comprises an area for each of the plurality of topic clusters.
7. The device of claim 6, wherein a size of the area for each of the plurality of topic clusters represents the frequency of occurrence of each topic in the plurality of topic clusters.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein identifying each of the plurality of biases comprises a latent semantic analysis.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of biases is identified as one of positive bias, neutral, or negative bias.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the statistical, natural-language processing analysis comprises a latent Dirichlet allocation.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise generating presentable content depicting each of the plurality of topic clusters according to a corresponding image configuration.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the presentable content includes a Pareto analysis of bias associated with each topic in each of the plurality of topic clusters.
13. A non-transitory, machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: performing a statistical, natural-language processing analysis on a plurality of text documents to determine a plurality of topics; associating a topic of the plurality of topics with each document in the plurality of text documents, thereby creating a plurality of topic-document pairs; identifying a respective bias for each of the plurality of topic-document pairs, resulting in a plurality of biases; creating a plurality of topic clusters based on the plurality of topics and the plurality of biases; and generating presentable content depicting each of the plurality of topic clusters according to a corresponding image configuration.
14. The non-transitory, machine-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein for each of the plurality of topic-document pairs, the respective bias is determined from text in a document identified by that topic-document pair.
15. The non-transitory, machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the plurality of topic clusters are determined based on a frequency of occurrence of each topic in the respective document identified by each of the plurality of topic-document pairs.
16. The non-transitory, machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the statistical, natural-language processing analysis comprises a latent Dirichlet allocation.
17. The non-transitory, machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the presentable content includes a Pareto analysis of bias associated with each topic in each of the plurality of topic clusters.
18. A method, comprising: performing, by a processing system comprising a processor, a statistical, natural-language processing analysis on a plurality of text documents to determine a plurality of topics; associating, by the processing system, a topic of the plurality of topics with each document in the plurality of text documents, thereby creating a plurality of topic-document pairs; identifying, by the processing system, a respective bias for each of the plurality of topic-document pairs, resulting in a plurality of biases, wherein each of the plurality of biases is identified as one of positive bias, neutral, or negative bias; creating, by the processing system, a plurality of topic clusters based on the plurality of topics and the plurality of biases; and generating, by the processing system, presentable content depicting each of the plurality of topic clusters according to a corresponding image configuration.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein for each of the plurality of topic-document pairs, the respective bias is determined from text in a document identified by that topic-document pair.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the plurality of topic clusters are determined based on a frequency of occurrence of each topic in the respective document identified by each of the plurality of topic-document pairs.
</claims>
</document>
