<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01L21/02,H01L21/477,H01L29/66,H01L29/786
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SEMICONDUCTOR ENERGY LABORATORY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ENDO, YUTA
IMOTO, YUKI
OKUNO, NAOKI
YAMAZAKI SHUNPEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64396394
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE AND METHOD FOR MANUFACTURING SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
In a semiconductor device including a transistor, the transistor includes a first oxide, a second oxide over the first oxide, an insulator over the second oxide, and a conductor over the insulator. The first oxide includes a channel formation region and a first region and a second region positioned so that the channel formation region is sandwiched therebetween. The second oxide is provided so as to be in contact with the channel formation region, part of the first region, and part of the second region. The first region and the second region have lower concentrations of oxygen than the channel formation region.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A semiconductor device comprising a transistor, the transistor comprising: a first oxide; a second oxide over the first oxide; an insulator over the second oxide; and a conductor over the insulator, wherein the first oxide comprises a channel formation region and a first region and a second region positioned so that the channel formation region is sandwiched therebetween, wherein the second oxide is provided so as to be in contact with the channel formation region, part of the first region, and part of the second region, and wherein the first region and the second region have lower concentrations of oxygen than the channel formation region.
2. 2.-15. (canceled)
16. The semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein the first oxide comprises In, an element M (M is Al, Ga, Y, or Sn), and Zn.
17. The semiconductor device according to claim 16, wherein, in the first oxide, a proportion of the number of atoms of In is higher than the element M in an atomic ratio.
18. The semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein the first region and the second region each comprise at least one of aluminum, ruthenium, titanium, tantalum, chromium, and tungsten.
19. The semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein the first region and the second region each further comprise nitrogen.
20. The semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein the channel formation region has a lower concentration of hydrogen than the first region and the second region.
21. The semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein the transistor is a normally-off transistor.
22. A semiconductor device comprising a transistor, a first insulator covering the transistor, and a first conductor and a second conductor electrically connected to the transistor, the transistor comprising: a first oxide; a first layer and a second layer each containing a metal element and oxygen over the first oxide; a second oxide over the first oxide, the first layer, and the second layer; a second insulator over the second oxide; and a third conductor over the second insulator, wherein the first oxide comprises a channel formation region and a first region and a second region positioned so that the channel formation region is sandwiched therebetween, wherein the first region is provided so as to be in contact with the first layer, wherein the second region is provided so as to be in contact with the second layer, wherein the second oxide is provided so as to be in contact with the channel formation region, part of the first layer, and part of the second layer, wherein the first insulator and the first layer comprise a first opening exposing the first region, wherein the first conductor is provided in the first opening and electrically connected to the first region, wherein the first insulator and the second layer comprise a second opening exposing the second region, wherein the second conductor is provided in the second opening and electrically connected to the second region, and wherein the first region and the second region have lower concentrations of oxygen than the channel formation region.
23. The semiconductor device according to claim 22, wherein the metal element comprises at least one of aluminum, ruthenium, titanium, tantalum, chromium, and tungsten.
24. The semiconductor device according to claim 22, wherein the first layer and the second layer each further comprise nitrogen.
25. The semiconductor device according to claim 22, wherein film thicknesses of the first layer and the second layer are each greater than or equal to 0.5 nm and less than 5 nm.
26. The semiconductor device according to claim 22, wherein the first oxide comprises In, an element M (M is Al, Ga, Y, or Sn), and Zn.
27. The semiconductor device according to claim 26, wherein, in the first oxide, a proportion of the number of atoms of In is higher than the element M in an atomic ratio.
28. The semiconductor device according to claim 22, wherein the first region and the second region each comprise at least one of aluminum, ruthenium, titanium, tantalum, chromium, and tungsten.
29. The semiconductor device according to claim 22, wherein the first region and the second region each further comprise nitrogen.
30. The semiconductor device according to claim 22, wherein the channel formation region has a lower concentration of hydrogen than the first region and the second region.
31. The semiconductor device according to claim 22, wherein the transistor is a normally-off transistor.
32. A method for manufacturing a semiconductor device, comprising the steps of: forming a first layer containing a metal element over a first oxide; processing the first oxide into an island shape using the first layer as a mask; processing the first layer over the first oxide which is processed into the island shape to expose a first region of the first oxide and form a second layer over a second region of the first oxide and a third layer over a third region of the first oxide; performing first heat treatment at least on the first oxide, the second layer, and the third layer in an atmosphere containing nitrogen to extract oxygen contained in the second region to the second layer and extract oxygen contained in the third region to the third layer; forming a second oxide over the first oxide; forming an insulator over the second oxide; and forming a conductor over the insulator.
33. The method for manufacturing a semiconductor device according to claim 32, wherein the first layer is formed by a sputtering method, using one or both of argon and nitrogen.
34. The method for manufacturing a semiconductor device, according to claim 32, wherein the first layer and the second layer are removed after the first heat treatment.
35. The method for manufacturing a semiconductor device, according to claim 32, wherein second heat treatment is further performed after the first heat treatment.
</claims>
</document>
