<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G06F3/0484,G08B17/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AZIZ, YAWAR
FRANK, TIMOTHY
HU, NICOLE
MCCARTHY, NICOLAS
TOHIDI, ALI
WANI, AHMAD
</assignee>

<inventors>
AZIZ, YAWAR
FRANK, TIMOTHY
HU, NICOLE
MCCARTHY, NICOLAS
TOHIDI, ALI
WANI, AHMAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70727079
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FIRE MANAGEMENT TOOL WITH VERSATILE USER INTERFACE
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and computer programs are presented for providing a user interface for fire management. One method includes an operation for estimating, by a fire management system, a fire state in a region and a forecast of an evolution of a fire at multiple times. The fire management program provides a user interface presenting fire information based on the estimated fire state and the forecast. The user interface includes a map of the region, a graphical representation of the fire information, and a time bar for selecting a time for the fire information. Additionally, the method includes an operation for receiving, via the user interface, a selection of the time for the fire information. The selected time is one of a past time, a present time, or a future time. The fire management program presents in the user interface the fire information for the selected time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented by one or more processors, the method comprising: estimating, by a fire management system, a state of a fire in a region and a forecast of an evolution of the fire at a plurality of future times, the state of the fire comprising a fire perimeter, a fire line intensity, and a flame height; providing, by the fire management system, a user interface presenting fire information based on the estimated state of the fire and the forecast, the user interface including a map of the region, a graphical representation of the fire information, and a time bar for selecting a time for the fire information, the graphical representation of the fire information comprising the fire perimeter, a burnt scar where the fire has finished burning, and an active-fire area where the fire is burning; receiving, via the user interface, a selection of the time for the fire information, the selected time being selected from a group consisting of a past time, a present time, or a future time; and causing presentation in the user interface of the fire information for the selected time.
2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein when the selected time is a past time, the user interface shows fire-monitoring information for the past time; wherein when the selected time is the present time, the user interface shows the state of the fire at the present time; wherein when the selected time is the future time, the user interface shows fire forecast information for the selected time.
3. (canceled)
4. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the map includes regions with a likelihood of fire based on ignition probability.
5. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the map includes an ember area where ember travels from the fire burning in the region.
6. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the time bar includes a time scale and a selector for identifying the selection of the time for the fire information.
7. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the map includes an option for showing prevailing winds in the region, wherein the map includes a boundary line showing where wind direction changes in the region.
8. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the map includes fire-fuel type throughout the region.
9. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the map includes an estimated fire-damage risk by city block, wherein the user interface includes a window with demographic information of population at risk in the region.
10. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the map includes instability areas where fire exhibits volatile behavior.
11. A system comprising: a memory comprising instructions; and one or more computer processors, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more computer processors, cause the one or more computer processors to perform operations comprising: estimating, by a fire management system, a state of a fire in a region and a forecast of an evolution of the fire at a plurality of future times, the state of the fire comprising a fire perimeter, a fire line intensity, and a flame height; providing, by the fire management system, a user interface presenting fire information based on the estimated state of the fire and the forecast, the user interface including a map of the region, a graphical representation of the fire information, and a time bar for selecting a time for the fire information, the graphical representation of the fire information comprising the fire perimeter, a burnt scar where the fire has finished burning, and an active-fire area where the fire is burning; receiving, via the user interface, a selection of the time for the fire information, the selected time being selected from a group consisting of a past time, a present time, or a future time; and causing presentation in the user interface of the fire information for the selected time.
12. The system as recited in claim 11, wherein when the selected time is a past time, the user interface shows fire-monitoring information for the past time; wherein when the selected time is the present time, the user interface shows the state of the fire at the present time; wherein when the selected time is the future time, the user interface shows fire forecast information for the selected time.
13. (canceled)
14. The system as recited in claim 11, wherein the map includes regions with a likelihood of fire based on ignition probability, wherein the map includes an ember area where ember is likely to travel from the fire burning in the region.
15. The system as recited in claim 11, wherein the time bar includes a time scale and a selector for identifying the selection of the time for the fire information.
16. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by a machine, cause the machine to perform operations comprising: estimating, by a fire management system, a state of a fire in a region and a forecast of an evolution of the fire at a plurality of future times, the state of the fire comprising a fire perimeter, a fire line intensity, and a flame height; providing, by the fire management system, a user interface presenting fire information based on the estimated state of the fire and the forecast, the user interface including a map of the region, a graphical representation of the fire information, and a time bar for selecting a time for the fire information, the graphical representation of the fire information comprising the fire perimeter, a burnt scar where the fire has finished burning, and an active-fire area where the fire is burning; receiving, via the user interface, a selection of the time for the fire information, the selected time being selected from a group consisting of a past time, a present time, or a future time; and causing presentation in the user interface of the fire information for the selected time.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein when the selected time is a past time, the user interface shows fire-monitoring information for the past time; wherein when the selected time is the present time, the user interface shows the state of the fire at the present time; wherein when the selected time is the future time, the user interface shows fire forecast information for the selected time.
18. (canceled)
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein the map includes regions with a likelihood of fire based on ignition probability, wherein the map includes an ember area where ember is likely to travel from the fire burning in the region.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein the time bar includes a time scale and a selector for identifying the selection of the time for the fire information.
21. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein the map includes an option for showing prevailing winds in the region, wherein the map includes a boundary line showing where wind direction changes in the region.
22. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein the map includes fire-fuel type throughout the region.
23. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein the map includes an estimated fire-damage risk by city block, wherein the user interface includes a window with demographic information of population at risk in the region.
</claims>
</document>
