<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/145,A61B5/1477
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ASCENSIA DIABETES CARE HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BROWN, DANIEL V.
ZACH, JUERGEN J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69714012
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR ANALYTE CONCENTRATION MONITORING USING HARMONIC RELATIONSHIPS
</title>

<abstract>
Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) may include applying a periodic excitation signal via an electrode of a CGM sensor to human interstitial fluid to drive an oxidation/reduction reaction, and measuring the current through the electrode. In some embodiments, the measured current is sampled and digitized, and various harmonics of the excitation signal's fundamental frequency are extracted. A set of relationships of at least two harmonics each is generated from the spectral amplitudes of a set of pairs, triplets, etc., of the harmonics, and the set of relationships is mapped to a glucose concentration such as based on the contents of a harmonic relationship database having a pre-existing set of harmonic relationships and glucose concentrations to which those sets of harmonic relationships correspond, for example. Numerous other embodiments are provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) system, comprising: a CGM sensor configured for insertion into a region of interstitial fluid in a user; first electronic circuitry configured to couple to the CGM sensor and configured to be removably attached to an external surface of the user, wherein the first electronic circuitry includes a periodic excitation signal generator configured to couple to the CGM sensor, a current sensor configured to couple to the CGM sensor, and a sampling circuit configured to couple to the current sensor, the sampling circuit configured to output sampled time-domain data; and second electronic circuitry coupled to the first electronic circuitry, wherein the second electronic circuitry is configured to extract a predetermined number of harmonics from the sampled time-domain data, generate a set of harmonic relationships based on the extracted harmonics, and determine a glucose level based on the set of harmonic relationships.
2. The CGM system of claim 1, wherein the first electronic circuitry and the second electronic circuitry are disposed in a wearable portion of the CGM system.
3. The CGM system of claim 1, wherein the first electronic circuitry is disposed in a wearable portion of the CGM system, and the second electronic circuitry is communicatively coupled to the first electronic circuitry.
4. The CGM system of claim 3, wherein the second electronic circuitry is disposed in a portable portion of the CGM system separate from the wearable portion.
5. The CGM system of claim 1, wherein the current sensor is configured to provide a voltage signal, and the sampling circuit is further configured to sample the voltage signal of the current sensor at a sampling rate greater than a fundamental frequency of a periodic excitation signal output by the periodic excitation signal generator by a factor between 50 and 400.
6. The CGM system of claim 1, wherein the sampled time-domain data is in a digital format.
7. The CGM system of claim 1, wherein the second electronic circuitry is configured to extract a predetermined number of harmonics from the sampled time-domain data by transforming the sampled time-domain data to frequency-domain data.
8. The CGM system of claim 1, wherein the second electronic circuitry includes Fast Fourier Transform circuitry.
9. The CGM system of claim 1, wherein the second electronic circuitry includes a processor, and a memory having instructions stored therein, coupled to the processor, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: extract a predetermined number of harmonics from the sampled time-domain data.
10. The CGM system of claim 9, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the processor to: perform a transform operation including one or more of a Fourier transform, a Discrete Fourier Transform, a Fast Fourier Transform, and a Goertzel Transform.
11. The CGM system of claim 1 wherein the first electronic circuitry is configured to employ the periodic excitation signal generator to produce a periodic voltage signal having a frequency selected based at least in part on an approximate glucose level of the interstitial fluid.
12. A method of continuous glucose monitoring (CGM), comprising: generating, by a periodic excitation signal generator, a periodic excitation signal having an amplitude and a fundamental frequency; applying the periodic excitation signal to an electrode of a CGM sensor; sensing, by a current sensor circuit, a current through the CGM sensor to produce a measured current signal; sampling, by a sampling circuit, the measured current signal at a sampling rate, for a period of time, at a bit resolution, to produce a set of time-domain sample data; transforming the set of time-domain sample data to a set of frequency-domain data, wherein the set of frequency-domain data includes at least a strength of each one of a predetermined number of harmonics of the fundamental frequency; generating a set of harmonic relationships based on a strength of each of the predetermined number of harmonics; and determining a glucose level based on the set of harmonic relationships.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein applying the excitation signal comprises: applying the periodic excitation signal by a potentiostat.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the periodic excitation signal is sinusoidal.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the periodic excitation signal is triangular.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the fundamental frequency is between 0.1 Hz and 10 Hz.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein the sampling rate is between 10 samples per second and 1000 samples per second.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the frequency-domain data further includes a phase angle of each one of a predetermined number of harmonics of the fundamental frequency.
19. The method of claim 12, wherein sensing comprises: passing the current from the CGM sensor through a resistor having a precision of in a range of 0.1% to 1%.
20. The method of claim 12, wherein transforming the set of time-domain sample data to a set of frequency-domain data comprises: performing a Goertzel transform operation.
21. The method of claim 12, wherein transforming the set of time-domain sample data to a set of frequency-domain data comprises: performing a transform operation including one or more of a Fourier transform, a Discrete Fourier Transform, a Fast Fourier Transform, and a Goertzel Transform.
22. The method of claim 12 wherein generating the periodic excitation signal includes producing the periodic excitation signal having a frequency selected based at least in part on an approximate glucose level of the interstitial fluid.
23. An analyte monitoring system, comprising: a first circuit configured to apply a periodic excitation signal to an analyte-containing fluid, the periodic excitation signal having a fundamental frequency selected based at least in part on an approximate analyte concentration within the analyte-containing fluid; a second circuit configured to generate a current measurement signal, the current measurement signal having a magnitude indicative of a current in the analyte-containing fluid, the magnitude dependent, at least in part, on the analyte concentration in the analyte-containing fluid; a third circuit configured to sample the current measurement signal, and further configured to produce digitized time-domain sample data; and a processor coupled to a memory, the memory having instructions stored therein that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: extract a plurality of harmonic signals from the digitized time-domain sample data; calculate a set of harmonic relationships based on at least a portion of the plurality of harmonic signals; and determine, based on the calculated set of harmonic relationships, a magnitude of the analyte concentration in the analyte-containing fluid.
24. The analyte monitoring system of claim 23 wherein the first circuit, the second circuit, the third circuit, the processor, and the memory are disposed on a wearable portion of the analyte monitor system.
25. The analyte monitoring system of claim 24 further comprising a display on the wearable portion of the analyte monitoring system, the display configured to display analyte information.
26. The analyte monitoring system of claim 23 wherein the first circuit and second circuit are disposed on a wearable portion of the analyte monitoring system and the third circuit, the processor and the memory are disposed on a non-wearable portion of the analyte monitoring system.
27. The analyte monitoring system of claim 23 wherein the memory includes a harmonic relationship database stored therein, and further having instructions stored therein that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: access the harmonic relationship database, wherein the harmonic relationship database includes a plurality of sets of harmonic relationships, each set of harmonic relationships associated with a corresponding analyte concentration; and determine, based on the harmonic relationship database and the calculated set of harmonic relationships, a magnitude of the analyte concentration in the analyte-containing fluid.
28. A method of electronically probing an oxidation-reduction reaction in an analyte-containing fluid, comprising: determining an approximate analyte concentration in an analyte-containing fluid; determining a frequency of a periodic excitation signal to apply to the analyte-containing fluid based at least in part on the determined approximate analyte concentration; applying, by a first circuit, the periodic excitation signal to the analyte-containing fluid; generating, by a second circuit while the first circuit is applying the periodic excitation signal, a current measurement signal, wherein the current measurement signal has a magnitude indicative of a current produced by an oxidation-reduction reaction in the analyte-containing fluid, the magnitude dependent, at least in part, on analyte concentration in the analyte-containing fluid; sampling, by a third circuit, the current measurement signal; providing, by the third circuit, digitized time-domain sample data representative of the current measurement signal; extracting a plurality of harmonic signals based, at least in part, on the digitized time-domain sample data, wherein the harmonic signals are harmonics of a fundamental frequency of the periodic excitation signal, and each harmonic signal has a corresponding strength; calculating a set of harmonic relationships based on at least a portion of the plurality of harmonic signals; and determining, based on the calculated set of harmonic relationships, a magnitude of an analyte concentration in the analyte-containing fluid.
29. An analyte monitoring system, comprising: a first circuit configured to apply a periodic excitation signal to an analyte-containing fluid; a second circuit configured to generate a current measurement signal, the current measurement signal having a magnitude indicative of a current in the analyte-containing fluid, the magnitude dependent, at least in part, on an analyte concentration in the analyte-containing fluid; a third circuit configured to sample the current measurement signal, and further configured to produce digitized time-domain sample data; and a processor coupled to a memory, the memory having instructions stored therein that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: extract a plurality of harmonic signals from the digitized time-domain sample data; calculate a set of harmonic relationships based on at least a portion of the plurality of harmonic signals; and determine, based on the calculated set of harmonic relationships, a magnitude of the analyte concentration in the analyte-containing fluid.
30. The analyte monitoring system of claim 29 wherein the first circuit, the second circuit, the third circuit, the processor, and the memory are disposed on a wearable portion of the analyte monitor system.
31. The analyte monitoring system of claim 30 further comprising a display on the wearable portion of the analyte monitoring system, the display configured to display analyte information.
32. The analyte monitoring system of claim 29 wherein the first circuit and second circuit are disposed on a wearable portion of the analyte monitoring system and the third circuit, the processor and the memory are disposed on a non-wearable portion of the analyte monitoring system.
</claims>
</document>
