<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61N5/10,G16H20/40,G16H40/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DUKE UNIVERSITY
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHENG, YANG
GE, YAORONG
Zhang, Jiahan
Palta, Manisha
Wang, Chunhao
Yin, FangFang
Wu, Qingrong
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046255
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR RADIATION TREATMENT PLANNING BASED ON A MODEL OF PLANNING STRATEGIES KNOWLEDGE INCLUDING TREATMENT PLANNING STATES AND ACTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for radiation treatment planning based on a model of planning strategies knowledge including treatment states and treatment actions are disclosed. According to an aspect, a method includes receiving geometric characterization data of a target volume for radiation treatment of a patient. The method also includes receiving geometric characterization data of at least one organ at risk proximate the target volume. Further, the method includes constructing a model for applying a predetermined radiation dosage to the target volume based on the received data. The model includes treatment states and associated treatment actions selectable to implement at each state. The method includes presenting information about at least one treatment state, the treatment actions associated with the at least one treatment state, and the rewards associated with the treatment actions associated with the at least one treatment state. The method also includes reconstructing the model based on a received selection of the treatment action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: at least one computing device: receiving anatomical and/or geometric characterization data of at least one target volume for radiation treatment of a patient; receiving anatomical and/or geometric characterization data of at least one organ at risk proximate the target volume; constructing a treatment planning strategies model for applying a predetermined radiation dosage to the target volume based on the received data, wherein the model comprises planning states and associated planning actions selectable to implement at each state, wherein each planning action is associated with a reward based on radiation treatment knowledge, the state and the data, and wherein the model is constrained by a predetermined limit of radiation dosage to the at least one organ at risk; presenting information about at least one planning state and the planning actions associated with the at least one planning state; receiving the rewards associated with the planning actions associated with the at least one planning state; receiving selection of a planning action associated with the one or more of the planning states; receiving selection of the at least one next planning state associated with the selected planning action; receiving the quality value information associated with the selected planning action, the selected at least one next planning state, and planning actions associated with the selected at least one next planning state; and reconstructing the model based on the received selection of the planning action and the quality value information associated with the selected planning action.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein constructing the model comprises constructing the model based on one or more of patient image, patient organ contour information, target volume contour information, and clinical parameters.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein constructing the model comprises constructing the model based on geometric characterization of a plurality of distances (or other modified distance formula to represent dosimetrical distance) from the target volume with a respective percentage for a volume of the at least one organ at risk
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the geometric characterization data of the target volume comprises one of a size and shape of the target volume.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the geometric characterization data of the at least one organ at risk comprises one of a size and shape of the at least one organ at risk.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the radiation treatment knowledge data comprises information about one of radiation treatment knowledge, experience, and preferences, and computerized models of published clinical trials results and guidelines.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the model is based on parameters represented by at least one of a dose distribution and the dose volume histogram.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein each planning state is a representation of the current status of the planning process which includes characterization of the current optimization parameters and the current plan including at least one of the measurements of the plan's conformity to dose constraints on target, OARs, and other auxiliary structures.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein each planning action includes at least one of increasing or decreasing dose constraints to the target, OARs, or other auxiliary structures.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the reward is calculated based on a plan quality score comprising weighted sum of multiple estimates of plan quality measurements which include both hard and soft constraints on dose-volume values.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein reconstructing the model comprises adjusting the quality value information associated with planning states and associated planning actions based on rewards and associated quality value information of the received selection of the at least one action.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the quality value information associated with a planning action associated with a planning state depends on a sequence of at least one planning actions selected for the sequence of next planning states associated with the selected planning actions.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein applying a predetermined radiation dosage to the at least one target volume and constraining to a predetermined limit of radiation dosage to the at least one organ at risk comprise utilization of and interaction with a treatment planning system involving optimization algorithms and dose calculation algorithms.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising presenting information about the reconstructed planning states and associated planning actions and rewards.
15. A system comprising: a radiation therapy planner configured to: receive anatomical and/or geometric characterization data of at least one target volume for radiation treatment of a patient; receive anatomical and/or geometric characterization data of at least one organ at risk proximate the target volume; construct a treatment planning strategies model for applying a predetermined radiation dosage to the target volume based on the received data, wherein the model comprises planning states and associated planning actions selectable to implement at each state, wherein each planning action is associated with a reward based on radiation treatment knowledge, the state and the data, and wherein the model is constrained by a predetermined limit of radiation dosage to the at least one organ at risk; present information about at least one planning state and the planning actions associated with the at least one planning state; receive the rewards associated with the planning actions associated with the at least one planning state; receive selection of a planning action associated with the one or more of the planning states; receive selection of the at least one next planning state associated with the selected planning action; receive the quality value information associated with the selected planning action, the selected at least one next planning state, and planning actions associated with the selected at least one next planning state; and reconstruct the model based on the received selection of the planning action and the quality value information associated with the selected planning action
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the radiation therapy planner is configured to construct the model based on one or more of patient image, patient organ contour information, target volume contour information, and clinical parameters.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the geometric characterization data of the target volume comprises one of a size and shape of the target volume.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the radiation treatment knowledge data comprises information about one of radiation treatment knowledge, experience, and preferences, and computerized models of published clinical trials results and guidelines.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein each planning state is a representation of the current status of the planning process which includes characterization of the current optimization parameters and the current plan including at least one of the dose constraints on target, OARs, and other auxiliary structures.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein each planning action includes at least one of increasing or decreasing constraints to the target, OARs, or other auxiliary structures.
21. The system of claim 15, wherein the radiation therapy planner is configured to adjust the quality value information associated with planning states and associated planning actions based on rewards and associated quality value information of the received selection of the at least one action.
22. The system of claim 15, wherein the radiation therapy planner is configured to reconstruct the treatment states and associated treatment actions and rewards based on the received selection of the action.
23. A method comprising: receiving radiation treatment knowledge and planning strategies data; providing a planning strategies model for applying a predetermined radiation dosage to a target volume and constrained by a predetermined limit of radiation dosage to the at least one organ at risk, wherein the model explicitly represents the planning strategies comprising planning states and associated planning actions, wherein each planning state is associated with one or more planning actions that are determined to be most appropriate for the planning state, each planning action being constructed based on the radiation treatment knowledge and planning strategies data; receiving information about a current state of a subject; and applying the planning strategies in the model repeatedly to generate a sequence of planning states and planning actions until a final planning state is reached, wherein the final planning state meets predetermined radiation dose to the target and predetermined limits of radiation dosage to the at least one organ at risk.
24. The method of claim 23, further comprising constructing the planning strategies model by: receiving anatomical and/or geometric characterization data of at least one target volume for radiation treatment of a patient; receiving anatomical and/or geometric characterization data of at least one organ at risk proximate the target volume; constructing a treatment planning strategies model for applying a predetermined radiation dosage to the target volume based on the received data, wherein the model comprises planning states and associated planning actions selectable to implement at each state, wherein each planning action is associated with a reward based on radiation treatment knowledge, the state and the data, and wherein the model is constrained by a predetermined limit of radiation dosage to the at least one organ at risk; presenting information about at least one planning state and the planning actions associated with the at least one planning state; receiving the rewards associated with the planning actions associated with the at least one planning state; receiving selection of a planning action associated with the one or more of the planning states; receiving selection of the at least one next planning state associated with the selected planning action; receiving the quality value information associated with the selected planning action, the selected at least one next planning state, and planning actions associated with the selected at least one next planning state; and reconstructing the model based on the received selection of the planning action and the quality value information associated with the selected planning action.
25. The method of claim 23, further comprising receiving user input indicating each planning action.
26. The method of claim 23, wherein the user input comprises acquired decisions of one or more healthcare planners.
27. The method of claim 23, further comprising generating another model and one or more planning states based on a treatment planning system or an optimization algorithm.
28. The method of claim 25, wherein the planning actions are selectable to implement at each state, wherein each planning action is associated with a reward based on radiation treatment knowledge and the data, and wherein the model is constrained by a predetermined limit of radiation dosage to the at least one organ at risk.
</claims>
</document>
