<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9537,G06N20/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
VARGA, SERGIO
Rangel Remunini, Flavio
Palhares Piva, Lucas
Cortizo de Argolo Nobre, Patricia
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650059
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRODUCT EVALUATION BASED ON DYNAMIC METRICS
</title>

<abstract>
An approach is provided in which an information handling system identifies a set of metrics corresponding to a product in response to receiving an initial set of product data corresponding to the product. Next, the information handling system captures an additional set of product data in response to determining that the additional set of product data is required based on the set of metrics. The information handling system computes a market value of the product based, at least in part, on the set of metrics, the set of product data, and the additional set of product data. In turn, the information handling system provides the market value to a user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented by an information handling system that includes a memory and a processor, the method comprising: identifying a first set of metrics corresponding to a product in response to receiving a first set of product data corresponding to the product; capturing a second set of product data in response to determining that the first set of product data is deficient based on the first set of metrics; computing a market value of the product based, at least in part, on the first set of metrics, the first set of product data, and the second set of product data; and providing the market value to a user.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving feedback from the user in response to providing the market value to the user; inputting the set of feedback into a machine learning module; determining, by the machine learning module, a second set of metrics based on the set of feedback; and collecting a third set of product data based on the second set of metrics.
3. The method of claim 2 further comprising: removing one or more incorrect assumptions from the first set of product data based on the set of feedback received from the user; and re-computing the market value in response to removing the one or more incorrect assumptions.
4. The method of claim 2 further comprising: receiving an initial set of metrics from one or more subject matter experts prior to receiving the first set of product data; feeding the initial set of metrics into the machine learning module; and identifying, by the machine learning module, the first set of metrics based on the initial set of metrics.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising: querying a set of Internet of Things (IoT) devices in proximity to the product in response to determining that the first set of product data is deficient based on the first set of metrics, wherein the set of IoT devices visually scans a set of areas on the product to collect the second set of product data; and receiving the second set of product data from the set of IoT devices in response to the querying.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the second set of product data is a set of visual images, the method further comprising: performing visual recognition analysis on the first set of product data; determining a set of weighting values of the first set of metrics based on the visual recognition analysis; computing the market value based on applying the set of weighting values to the first set of metrics; and prohibiting a seller of the product from adjusting the computed market value.
7. The method of claim 1 further comprising: collecting a set of market data corresponding to a set of similar products that are similar to the product; collecting a set of legal data corresponding to the product; and computing the market value based on the set of market data and the set of legal data.
8. An information handling system comprising: one or more processors; a memory coupled to at least one of the processors; a set of computer program instructions stored in the memory and executed by at least one of the processors in order to perform actions of: identifying a first set of metrics corresponding to a product in response to receiving a first set of product data corresponding to the product; capturing a second set of product data in response to determining that the first set of product data is deficient based on the first set of metrics; computing a market value of the product based, at least in part, on the first set of metrics, the first set of product data, and the second set of product data; and providing the market value to a user.
9. The information handling system of claim 8 wherein the processors perform additional actions comprising: receiving feedback from the user in response to providing the market value to the user; inputting the set of feedback into a machine learning module; determining, by the machine learning module, a second set of metrics based on the set of feedback; and collecting a third set of product data based on the second set of metrics.
10. The information handling system of claim 9 wherein the processors perform additional actions comprising: removing one or more incorrect assumptions from the first set of product data based on the set of feedback received from the user; and re-computing the market value in response to removing the one or more incorrect assumptions.
11. The information handling system of claim 9 wherein the processors perform additional actions comprising: receiving an initial set of metrics from one or more subject matter experts prior to receiving the first set of product data; feeding the initial set of metrics into the machine learning module; and identifying, by the machine learning module, the first set of metrics based on the initial set of metrics.
12. The information handling system of claim 8 wherein the processors perform additional actions comprising: querying a set of Internet of Things (IoT) devices in proximity to the product in response to determining that the first set of product data is deficient based on the first set of metrics, wherein the set of IoT devices visually scans a set of areas on the product to collect the second set of product data; and receiving the second set of product data from the set of IoT devices in response to the querying.
13. The information handling system of claim 8 wherein the second set of product data is a set of visual images, the processors performing additional actions comprising: performing visual recognition analysis on the first set of product data; determining a set of weighting values of the first set of metrics based on the visual recognition analysis; computing the market value based on applying the set of weighting values to the first set of metrics; and prohibiting a seller of the product from adjusting the computed market value.
14. The information handling system of claim 8 wherein the processors perform additional actions comprising: collecting a set of market data corresponding to a set of similar products that are similar to the product; collecting a set of legal data corresponding to the product; and computing the market value based on the set of market data and the set of legal data.
15. A computer program product stored in a computer readable storage medium, comprising computer program code that, when executed by an information handling system, causes the information handling system to perform actions comprising: identifying a first set of metrics corresponding to a product in response to receiving a first set of product data corresponding to the product; capturing a second set of product data in response to determining that the first set of product data is deficient based on the first set of metrics; computing a market value of the product based, at least in part, on the first set of metrics, the first set of product data, and the second set of product data; and providing the market value to a user.
16. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the information handling system performs further actions comprising: receiving feedback from the user in response to providing the market value to the user; inputting the set of feedback into a machine learning module; determining, by the machine learning module, a second set of metrics based on the set of feedback; and collecting a third set of product data based on the second set of metrics.
17. The computer program product of claim 16 wherein the information handling system performs further actions comprising: removing one or more incorrect assumptions from the first set of product data based on the set of feedback received from the user; and re-computing the market value in response to removing the one or more incorrect assumptions.
18. The computer program product of claim 16 wherein the information handling system performs further actions comprising: receiving an initial set of metrics from one or more subject matter experts prior to receiving the first set of product data; feeding the initial set of metrics into the machine learning module; and identifying, by the machine learning module, the first set of metrics based on the initial set of metrics.
19. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the information handling system performs further actions comprising: querying a set of Internet of Things (IoT) devices in proximity to the product in response to determining that the first set of product data is deficient based on the first set of metrics, wherein the set of IoT devices visually scans a set of areas on the product to collect the second set of product data; and receiving the second set of product data from the set of IoT devices in response to the querying.
20. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the second set of product data is a set of visual images, the information handling system performing further actions comprising: performing visual recognition analysis on the first set of product data; determining a set of weighting values of the first set of metrics based on the visual recognition analysis; computing the market value based on applying the set of weighting values to the first set of metrics; and prohibiting a seller of the product from adjusting the computed market value.
</claims>
</document>
