<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,H04L9/08,H04W12/00,H04W12/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MARATHE, NIKHIL S.
GORMAN, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70850097
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multi-dimensional progressive security for personal profiles
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, a system that includes a processing system including at least one processor and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations including receiving a unique identifying number for an entity, a vector associated with the entity, and a timestamp from a requestor, generating a key using the unique identifying number, the vector, and the timestamp, and sending the key to the requestor, wherein the requestor uses the key to store information associated with the entity. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processing system including at least one processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: receiving a unique identifying number for an entity, a vector associated with the entity, and a timestamp from equipment of a requestor; generating a key using the unique identifying number, the vector, and the timestamp; and sending the key to the equipment of the requestor, wherein the equipment of the requestor uses the key to store information associated with the entity.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein generating further comprises finding a multifaceted object, an axis of rotation, and a speed of rotation associated with the unique identifying number, rotating the multifaceted object about the axis of rotation at the speed of rotation, determining an orientation of the multifaceted object at the timestamp, determining two points of intersection of the vector with the multifaceted object at the orientation, and generating a key from the two points of intersection.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the processing system comprises at least three processors communicatively coupled by a communications network, wherein each processor comprises a respective memory, and wherein the multifaceted object, the axis of rotation and the speed of rotation are each stored in a respective memory of one of the at least three processors.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the processing system comprises at least three processors communicatively coupled by a communications network, wherein each processor comprises a respective memory, and wherein the multifaceted object, the axis of rotation and the speed of rotation are each stored in a respective memory of one of the at least three processors.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein each of the at least three processors are at different locations.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein none of the respective memories of the at least three processors comprises the multifaceted object, the axis of rotation, and the speed and direction of rotation.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the key is generated by combining coordinates of the two points of intersection.
8. A machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: sending a unique identifying number for an entity to a first database security entity, wherein the first database security entity provides first information to a second database security entity; sending a unique identifying number for an entity and a vector associated with the entity to the second database security entity, wherein the second database security entity provides second information to a third database security entity; sending a unique identifying number for an entity and a timestamp to the third database security entity; and receiving a key from the third database security entity.
9. The machine-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise using the key to store information from the entity.
10. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the key is used as an index to a database comprising the information from the entity, and wherein the processing system comprises a plurality of processors operating in a distributed processing environment.
11. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the key is used to encrypt the information from the entity.
12. The machine-readable medium of claim 8, wherein each of the first database security entity, the second database security entity and the third database security entity are at different locations and are communicatively coupled by a communications network.
13. The machine-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the first information comprises an axis of rotation associated with the unique identifying number.
14. The machine-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the first database security entity looks up the axis of rotation in a database using the unique identifying number.
15. The machine-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the second information comprises two points of intersection of the vector with a multifaceted object associated with the unique identifying number and two perimeter loops of the multifaceted object, wherein each perimeter loop lies in a plane normal to the axis of rotation and comprises one of the two points of intersection.
16. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the third database security entity uses the two points of intersection, the two perimeter loops, the timestamp and a speed associated with the unique identifying number to determine two endpoints on the perimeter loops, and generates the key by combining coordinates of the two endpoints.
17. A method, comprising: receiving, by a processing system comprising a processor, a unique identifying number for an entity, a vector associated with the entity from a requestor; receiving, by the processing system, an axis of rotation from a first database security entity; finding, by the processing system, a multifaceted object associated with the unique identifying number; determining, by the processing system, two points of intersection of the multifaceted object with the vector; determining, by the processing system, two perimeters on the multifaceted object comprising the two points of intersection, wherein the two perimeters lie in planes normal to the axis of rotation; and sending, by the processing system, the two perimeters and two points of intersection to a third database security entity, wherein the third database security entity generates a key therefrom.
18. The method of claim 17, comprising: generating, by the processing system, the multifaceted object; and storing, by the processing system, the multifaceted object in a database, wherein the processing system finds the multifaceted object using the unique identifying number as an index to the database.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein each multifaceted object stored in the database is unique and is centered on an origin.
20. The method of claim 19, comprising replacing, by the processing system, the multifaceted object stored in the database keyed to the unique identifying number with a new multifaceted object.
</claims>
</document>
