<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/00,G10L15/02,G10L15/18,G10L15/187,G10L15/22,G10L15/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LU FANG
KOCHURA, NADIYA
DONATI, MICHAEL
SACHS, SCOTT L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70849278
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PERSONALIZED PRONUNCIATION HINTS BASED ON USER SPEECH
</title>

<abstract>
In an approach to analyzing a sound file, determining the language of the sound file and the display, creating a pronunciation map between the languages, generating a set of pronunciation hints based on the pronunciation map, and displaying the set of pronunciation hints, one or more computer processors identify a word from one or more words in a sound file. The one or more computer processors determine a dialect of spoken language for the word. The one or more computer processors determine a different language to display the word. The one or more computer processors retrieve one or more phonological rules based on the determined spoken language of the word and the determined different language to display the word. The one or more computer processors create a pronunciation map based on the retrieved phonological rules of the word.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: identifying, by one or more computer processors, a word from one or more words in a sound file; determining, by one or more computer processors, a dialect of spoken language for the word; determining, by one or more computer processors, a different language to display the word; retrieving, by one or more computer processors, one or more phonological rules based on the determined spoken language of the word and the determined different language to display the word; and creating, by one or more computer processors, a pronunciation map based on the retrieved phonological rules of the word.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein retrieving one or more phonological rules based on the determined spoken language of the word and the determined language to display the word further comprises: identifying, by one or more computer processors, one or more idiolectic features of the word; identifying, by one or more computer processors, one or more isoglossic features of the word; decomposing, by one or more computer processors, the word into phonemes based on the one or more idiolectic and isoglos sic features of the word; and retrieving, by one or more computer processors, additional phonological rules based on the decomposed phonemes.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein creating, a pronunciation map based on the retrieved phonological rules of the word further comprises: decomposing, by one or more computer processors, the word into segmented phonemes based on the dialect of the spoken word; identifying, by one or more computer processors, related phonemes in the phonological rules of the language of the display; and mapping, by one or more computer processors, the decomposed phonemes with the identified related phonemes.
4. The method of claim 1, retrieving one or more phonological rules based on the determined spoken language of the word and the determined language to display the word further comprises, retrieving, by one or more computer processors, prosodic rules which include one or more of the following rules: syllable, onset and rime, articulatory gestures, articulatory features, and mora.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising, generating, by one or more computer processors, one or more pronunciation hints based on the created pronunciation map.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein generating one or more pronunciation hints based on the created pronunciation map further comprises, displaying, by one or more computer processors, the pronunciation hints on a display.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein generating one or more pronunciation hints based on the created pronunciation map further comprises displaying, by one or more computer processors, on an electronic braille display.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein generating pronunciation hints based on the created pronunciation map further comprises, decomposing, by one or more computer processors, the one or more pronunciation hints into phonemes.
9. The method of claim 5, wherein generating pronunciation hints based on the created pronunciation map further comprises: identifying, by one or more computer processors, one or more images related to the decomposed phonemes; retrieving, by one or more computer processors, the one or more images related to the decomposed phonemes; and displaying, by one or more computer processors, the decomposed phonemes and the retrieved one or more images.
10. A computer program product comprising: one or more computer readable storage media and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to identify a word from one or more words in a sound file; program instructions to determine a dialect of spoken language for the word; program instructions to determine a different language to display the word; program instructions to retrieve one or more phonological rules based on the determined spoken language of the word and the determined different language to display the word; and program instructions to create a pronunciation map based on the retrieved phonological rules of the word.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the program instructions to retrieve one or more phonological rules based on the determined spoken language of the word and the determined language to display the word further comprise program instructions to: identify one or more idiolectic features of the word; identify one or more isoglossic features of the word; decompose the word into phonemes based on the one or more idiolectic and isoglossic features of the word; and retrieve additional phonological rules based on the decomposed phonemes.
12. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the program instructions to create a pronunciation map based on the retrieved phonological rules of the word further comprise program instructions to: decompose the word into segmented phonemes based on the dialect of the spoken word; identify related phonemes in the phonological rules of the language of the display; and map the decomposed phonemes with the identified related phonemes.
13. The computer program product of claim 10, further comprising program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to: generate one or more pronunciation hints based on the created pronunciation map.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the program instructions to generate pronunciation hints based on the created pronunciation map further comprise program instructions to: decompose the one or more pronunciation hints into phonemes.
15. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the program instructions to generate pronunciation hints based on the created pronunciation map further comprise program instructions to: identify one or more images related to the decomposed phonemes; retrieve the one or more images related to the decomposed phonemes; and display the decomposed phonemes and the retrieved one or more images.
16. A computer system comprising: one or more computer processors; one or more computer readable storage media; and program instructions stored on the computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more processors, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to identify a word from one or more words in a sound file; program instructions to determine a dialect of spoken language for the word; program instructions to determine a different language to display the word; program instructions to retrieve one or more phonological rules based on the determined spoken language of the word and the determined different language to display the word; and program instructions to create a pronunciation map based on the retrieved phonological rules of the word.
17. The computer system product of claim 16, wherein the program instructions to retrieve one or more phonological rules based on the determined spoken language of the word and the determined language to display the word further comprise program instructions to: identify one or more idiolectic features of the word; identify one or more isoglossic features of the word; decompose the word into phonemes based on the one or more idiolectic and isoglossic features of the word; and retrieve additional phonological rules based on the decomposed phonemes.
18. The computer system product of claim 16, wherein the program instructions to create a pronunciation map based on the retrieved phonological rules of the word further comprise program instructions to: decompose the word into segmented phonemes based on the dialect of the spoken word; identify related phonemes in the phonological rules of the language of the display; and map the decomposed phonemes with the identified related phonemes.
19. The computer system product of claim 16, further comprising program instructions, stored on the computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more processors, to: generate one or more pronunciation hints based on the created pronunciation map.
20. The computer system product of claim 19, wherein the program instructions to generate pronunciation hints based on the created pronunciation map further comprise program instructions to: identify one or more images related to the decomposed phonemes; retrieve the one or more images related to the decomposed phonemes; and display the decomposed phonemes and the retrieved one or more images.
</claims>
</document>
