<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01K7/00,G01R31/28,G01R31/52
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PROTEANTECS
</assignee>

<inventors>
FAYNEH, EYAL
COHEN SHAI
LANDMAN, EVELYN
REDLER, GUY
WEINTROB, INBAR
DAVID, Yahel
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67143625
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTEGRATED CIRCUIT WORKLOAD, TEMPERATURE AND/OR SUBTHRESHOLD LEAKAGE SENSOR
</title>

<abstract>
Determination of one or more operating conditions (leakage current, temperature and/or workload) of a functional transistor in a semiconductor integrated circuit (IC). The functional transistor provides an electrical current, which is provided as an input to a ring oscillator (ROSC). The ROSC is located in the IC proximate to the functional transistor and has an oscillation frequency in operation. The one or more operating conditions of the functional transistor are determined based on the oscillation frequency of the ROSC.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A semiconductor integrated circuit (IC) comprising: a functional transistor, having an output providing an electrical current; a ring oscillator (ROSC) circuit, located in the IC proximate to the functional transistor and having an oscillation frequency in operation; and a processor, configured to determine one or more operating conditions of the functional transistor based on the oscillation frequency of the ROSC; wherein the ROSC has an input coupled to receive the electrical current from the output of the functional transistor.
2. (canceled)
3. (canceled)
4. (canceled)
5. The semiconductor IC of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to use stored simulation results for the oscillation frequency of the ROSC at different operating conditions to determine the one or more operating conditions of the functional transistor.
6. The semiconductor IC of claim 1, wherein the ROSC forms part of at least one leakage detection circuit, such that the processor is configured to determine a leakage current for the functional transistor based on the oscillation frequency of the ROSC.
7. The semiconductor IC of claim 6, wherein the at least one leakage detection circuit further comprises: a sub-threshold bias generator electrically connected to an input of a device under test (DUT), the DUT comprising the functional transistor and the ROSC being a first storage circuit that is electrically connected to an output of the DUT; and a frequency measurement circuit.
8. The semiconductor IC of claim 7, further comprising: an electronic switch electrically connected to the output of the DUT, the ROSC being electrically connected to the electronic switch.
9. The semiconductor IC of claim 7, wherein the output of the DUT is a drain of the functional transistor.
10. The semiconductor IC of claim 7, wherein said at least one leakage detection circuit is a plurality of leakage detection circuits, each measuring the leakage current from one of a plurality of DUTs.
11. The semiconductor IC of claim 1, wherein the ROSC and the processor form part of at least one temperature detection circuit, such that the processor is configured to determine a temperature for the functional transistor based on the oscillation frequency of the ROSC.
12. The semiconductor IC of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to use stored simulation results for the oscillation frequency of the ROSC at different temperatures to determine the temperature of the functional transistor based on the oscillation frequency of the ROSC.
13. The semiconductor IC of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to identify the IC as having a type selected from a plurality of predefined types of IC, the processor storing respective simulation results for the oscillation frequency of the ROSC at different temperatures for each of the predefined types.
14. The semiconductor IC of claim 11, wherein the at least one temperature detection circuit further comprises a current source, an output of the current source providing an input to the ROSC.
15. The semiconductor IC of claim 14, wherein the current source comprises a sub-threshold bias generator coupled to a control terminal of the functional transistor and configured to bias the functional transistor in a sub-threshold state, an output of the functional transistor providing the output of the current source.
16. The semiconductor IC of claim 15, wherein the sub-threshold bias generator forms part of at least one leakage detection circuit that comprises: a sub-threshold bias generator electrically connected to an input of a device under test (DUT), the DUT comprising the functional transistor and the ROSC being a first storage circuit that is electrically connected to an output of the DUT; and a frequency measurement circuit.
17. (canceled)
18. The semiconductor IC of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine a stress or workload for the IC based on the oscillation frequency of the ROSC and on a function of one or more of: IC voltage, IC temperature, and IC activity.
19. (canceled)
20. The semiconductor IC of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine the stress or workload at different values of one or both of: a clock frequency for the semiconductor IC, and an operating voltage for semiconductor IC; and provide the stress or workload referenced against the clock frequency and/or operating voltage.
21. The semiconductor IC of claim 20, wherein the stress or workload for the IC represents an aggregate stress or workload over a time interval, the time interval being based on a time duration for measurement of the oscillation frequency of the ROSC.
22. The semiconductor IC of claim 20, wherein the stress or workload is represented by one or more of: a number; a ratio with respect to a reference value for all semiconductor IC, and a ratio with respect to a reference value for semiconductor ICs of the same type.
23. The semiconductor IC of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to receive a margin loss for the semiconductor IC and correlate the received margin loss with the stress or workload.
24. The semiconductor IC of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a margin loss for the IC based on the determined stress or workload and a stored correlation between stress or workload and margin loss.
25. The semiconductor IC of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to selectively enable or disable a Negative-Bias Temperature Instability (NBTI) mode for at least a portion of the semiconductor IC, and determine a stress or workload for the NBTI mode when the NBTI mode is enabled.
26. The semiconductor IC of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a notification signal based on a comparison of the determined stress or workload with a predetermined criterion, the notification signal being indicative of one or more of: a state or age of the IC, one or more guard-bands for the IC, and a maintenance or replacement condition.
27. (canceled)
28. (canceled)
29. (canceled)
30. The semiconductor IC of claim 1, wherein the input of said ROSC is switchably coupled to receive the electrical current from the output of the functional transistor, such that the processor is configured to determine: a reference frequency based on the oscillation frequency of the ROSC when the input of ROSC does not receive the electrical current from the output of the functional transistor; and a sensor measurement frequency based on the oscillation frequency of the ROSC when the input of ROSC receives the electrical current from the output of the functional transistor.
31. 31-62. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
