<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/08,H04W28/06,H04W28/24,H04W80/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
AKTAS, ISMET
ANSARI, JUNAID
Jafari, Mohammad Hossein
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59930333
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Radio Communication of Critical Packet Data Units
</title>

<abstract>
A technique for communicating protocol data units, PDUs, in a radio communication from a transmitter (100) to a receiver (200) is described. As to a method aspect of the technique, one or more control messages indicative of Quality of Service, QoS, requirements for the radio communication are received. The QoS requirements include a control command for a reliability of the radio communication and a control command for a latency of the radio communication. A batch of redundant PDUs is transmitted from the transmitter (100) to the receiver (200). A number of the redundant PDUs per batch depends on the control command for the reliability and a temporal spread of the redundant PDUs per batch depends on the control command for the latency.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-44. (canceled)
45. A transmitter for transmitting protocol data units, PDUs, in a radio communication to a receiver, the transmitter comprising at least one processor and a memory, said memory comprising instructions executable by said at least one processor, whereby the transmitter is operative to: receive one or more control messages indicative of Quality of Service, QoS, requirements for the radio communication, the QoS requirements including a control command for a reliability of the radio communication and a control command for a latency of the radio communication; and transmit a batch of redundant PDUs to the receiver, wherein a number of the redundant PDUs per batch depends on the control command for the reliability and a temporal spread of the redundant PDUs per batch depends on the control command for the latency.
46. The transmitter of claim 45, wherein at least one of the temporal spread of the redundant PDUs per batch and the number of the redundant PDUs per batch further depends on a channel state of a channel used for the radio communication from the transmitter to the receiver.
47. The transmitter of claim 45, wherein the control command for the reliability includes a reliability requirement for the reliability of the radio communication, and the number of the redundant PDUs per batch depends on the reliability requirement, and/or wherein the control command for the latency includes a latency requirement for the latency of the radio communication, and wherein the temporal spread of the redundant PDUs per batch depends on the latency requirement.
48. The transmitter of claim 47, wherein the latency requirement corresponds to a time interval encompassing all the radio resources on which the redundant PDUs of the batch are transmitted.
49. The transmitter of claim 45, wherein at least one of the one or more control messages is indicative of a device capability of the receiver or a device category of the receiver, wherein the device capability or the device category implies one or each of the QoS requirements.
50. The transmitter of claim 45, wherein at least one of the one or more control messages is indicative of at least one of a network configuration and a network capability, and wherein the number of the redundant PDUs per batch, the temporal spread of the redundant PDUs per batch, or both the temporal spread of the redundant PDUs per batch and the number of the redundant PDUs per batch further depends on at least one of the network configuration and the network capability.
51. The transmitter of claim 45, wherein the transmitter is operative to receive at least one of the one or more control messages from the receiver.
52. The transmitter of claim 45, wherein the transmitter is operative to be in radio communication with multiple receivers, each providing at least one of the one or more control messages, and wherein number of the redundant PDUs per batch, the temporal spread of the redundant PDUs per batch, or both the temporal spread of the redundant PDUs per batch and the number of the redundant PDUs per batch depends on the one or more control messages received from the multiple receivers.
53. The transmitter of claim 45, wherein at least one of the one or more control messages includes a configuration message received upon setting up the radio communication.
54. The transmitter of claim 45, wherein the reliability requirement corresponds to a bit-error rate or bit-error ratio, BER, or a packet-error ratio (PER) of the redundant PDUs.
55. A receiver for receiving protocol data units, PDUs, in a radio communication from a transmitter, the receiver comprising at least one processor and a memory, said memory comprising instructions executable by said at least one processor, whereby the receiver is operative to: transmit, to the transmitter, one or more control messages indicative of Quality of Service, QoS, requirements for the radio communication, the QoS requirements including a control command for a reliability of the radio communication and a control command for a latency of the radio communication; and receive a batch of redundant PDUs from the transmitter, wherein a number of the redundant PDUs per batch depends on the control command for the reliability and a temporal spread of the redundant PDUs per batch depends on the control command for the latency.
56. The receiver of claim 55, further comprising the step of: removing redundant PDUs from the batch based on identical sequence numbers included in the redundant PDUs.
57. The receiver of claim 55, wherein at least one of the temporal spread of the redundant PDUs per batch and the number of the redundant PDUs per batch further depends on a channel state of a channel used for the radio communication from the transmitter to the receiver.
58. The receiver of claim 55, wherein the control command for the reliability includes a reliability requirement for the reliability of the radio communication, and the number of the redundant PDUs per batch depends on the reliability requirement, and/or wherein the control command for the latency includes a latency requirement for the latency of the radio communication, and wherein the temporal spread of the redundant PDUs per batch depends on the latency requirement.
59. The receiver of claim 58, wherein the latency requirement corresponds to a time interval encompassing all the radio resources on which the redundant PDUs of the batch are transmitted.
60. The receiver of claim 55, wherein at least one of the one or more control messages is indicative of a device capability of the receiver or a device category of the receiver, wherein the device capability or the device category implies one or each of the QoS requirements.
61. The receiver of claim 55, wherein at least one of the one or more control messages is indicative of at least one of a network configuration and a network capability, and wherein the number of the redundant PDUs per batch, the temporal spread of the redundant PDUs per batch, or both the temporal spread of the redundant PDUs per batch and the number of the redundant PDUs per batch further depends on at least one of the network configuration and the network capability.
62. The receiver of claim 55, wherein the reliability requirement corresponds to a bit-error rate or bit-error ratio, BER, or a packet-error ratio (PER) of the redundant PDUs.
63. A method of transmitting protocol data units, PDUs, in a radio communication from a transmitter to a receiver, the method comprising: receiving one or more control messages indicative of Quality of Service, QoS, requirements for the radio communication, the QoS requirements including a control command for a reliability of the radio communication and a control command for a latency of the radio communication; and transmitting a batch of redundant PDUs from the transmitter to the receiver, wherein a number of the redundant PDUs per batch depends on the control command for the reliability and a temporal spread of the redundant PDUs per batch depends on the control command for the latency.
64. A method of receiving protocol data units, PDUs, in a radio communication from a transmitter at a receiver, the method comprising or triggering the steps of: transmitting, to the transmitter, one or more control messages indicative of Quality of Service, QoS, requirements for the radio communication, the QoS requirements including a control command for a reliability of the radio communication and a control command for a latency of the radio communication; and receiving a batch of redundant PDUs from the transmitter, wherein a number of the redundant PDUs per batch depends on the control command for the reliability and a temporal spread of the redundant PDUs per batch depends on the control command for the latency.
</claims>
</document>
