<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q50/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
GEE, JEFFREY DOUGLAS
KUMAR, DEEPAK
RAMANATH, ROHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70848810
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PHRASE EXTRACTION FOR OPTIMIZING DIGITAL PAGE
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for improving the accuracy, relevancy, and efficiency of a computer system of an online service by providing a user interface to optimize a digital page of a user on the online service are disclosed herein. In some embodiments, a computer system receives a plurality of phrases for a type of job, selects a group of phrases from the plurality of phrases based on a corresponding relevancy measurement and a corresponding diversity measurement for each phrase in the selected group of phrases, and generates a recommendation for a page of a first user based on the selected group of phrases, with the recommendation comprising a suggested addition of the selected group of phrases to the page of the first user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a computer system having a memory and at least one hardware processor, a plurality of phrases for a type of job; selecting, by the computer system, a group of phrases from the plurality of phrases based on a corresponding relevancy measurement and a corresponding diversity measurement for each phrase in the selected group of phrases, the relevancy measurement comprising a measure of relevance of the corresponding selected phrase in the selected group of phrases to the type of job, and the diversity measurement comprising a measure of distinction between each phrase in the selected group of phrases and other phrases in the selected group of the phrases; generating, by the computer system, a recommendation for a page of a first user based on the selected group of phrases, the recommendation comprising a suggested addition of the selected group of phrases to the page of the first user; and causing, by the computer system, the generated recommendation for the page of the first user to be displayed on a computing device of the first user.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the selecting the group of phrases from the plurality of phrases comprises: for each one of the plurality of phrases, generating the corresponding relevance measurement; ranking the plurality of phrases based on their corresponding relevance measurements; selecting a first phrase of the plurality of phrases for inclusion in the group of phrases based on the first phrase having a highest ranking amongst the plurality of phrases; identifying a second phrase of the plurality of phrases based on the second phrase having a second highest ranking amongst the plurality of phrases; determining a diversity measurement of the second phrase indicating the measure of distinction between the second phrase and the first phrase; and determining whether or not to include the second phrase in the group of phrases based on the determined diversity measurement of the second phrase.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the determining whether or not to include the second phrase in the group of phrases comprises including the second phrase in the group of phrases based on the determined diversity measurement of the second phrase.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the determining whether or not to include the second phrase in the group of phrases comprises excluding the second phrase from the group of phrases based on the determined diversity measurement of the second phrase.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the receiving the plurality of phrases for the type of job comprises: selecting sentences from one or more job listings of the type of job based on the selected sentences being determined to comprise role-dependent information that corresponds to a role in an organization; and extracting noun phrases from the selected sentences, the extracted noun phrases being included in the plurality of phrases, and a remaining portion of the selected sentences other than the extracted noun phrases being omitted from the plurality of phrases.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the receiving the plurality of phrases for the type of job comprises extracting the plurality of phrases from one or more job listings of the type of job.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the page comprises a profile page of the first user that is associated with a profile of the first user, the profile being stored in a database of an online service in association with a profile of the first user.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the page comprises a resume of the first user that is included in an application to a job posting of the type of job via an online service.
9. A system comprising: at least one hardware processor; and a non-transitory machine-readable medium embodying a set of instructions that, when executed by the at least one hardware processor, cause the at least one hardware processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving a plurality of phrases for a type of job; selecting a group of phrases from the plurality of phrases based on a corresponding relevancy measurement and a corresponding diversity measurement for each phrase in the selected group of phrases, the relevancy measurement comprising a measure of relevance of the corresponding selected phrase in the selected group of phrases to the type of job, and the diversity measurement comprising a measure of distinction between each phrase in the selected group of phrases and other phrases in the selected group of the phrases; generating a recommendation for a page of a first user based on the selected group of phrases, the recommendation comprising a suggested addition of the selected group of phrases to the page of the first user; and causing the generated recommendation for the page of the first user to be displayed on a computing device of the first user.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the selecting the group of phrases from the plurality of phrases comprises: for each one of the plurality of phrases, generating the corresponding relevance measurement; ranking the plurality of phrases based on their corresponding relevance measurements; selecting a first phrase of the plurality of phrases for inclusion in the group of phrases based on the first phrase having a highest ranking amongst the plurality of phrases; identifying a second phrase of the plurality of phrases based on the second phrase having a second highest ranking amongst the plurality of phrases; determining a diversity measurement of the second phrase indicating the measure of distinction between the second phrase and the first phrase; and determining whether or not to include the second phrase in the group of phrases based on the determined diversity measurement of the second phrase.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the determining whether or not to include the second phrase in the group of phrases comprises including the second phrase in the group of phrases based on the determined diversity measurement of the second phrase.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the determining whether or not to include the second phrase in the group of phrases comprises excluding the second phrase from the group of phrases based on the determined diversity measurement of the second phrase.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the receiving the plurality of phrases for the type of job comprises: selecting sentences from one or more job listings of the type of job based on the selected sentences being determined to comprise role-dependent information that corresponds to a role in an organization; and extracting noun phrases from the selected sentences, the extracted noun phrases being included in the plurality of phrases, and a remaining portion of the selected sentences other than the extracted noun phrases being omitted from the plurality of phrases.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the receiving the plurality of phrases for the type of job comprises extracting the plurality of phrases from one or more job listings of the type of job.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the page comprises a profile page of the first user that is associated with a profile of the first user, the profile being stored in a database of an online service in association with a profile of the first user.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the page comprises a resume of the first user that is included in an application to a job posting of the type of job via an online service.
17. A non-transitory machine-readable medium embodying a set of instructions that, when executed by at least one hardware processor, cause the at least one hardware processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving a plurality of phrases for a type of job; selecting a group of phrases from the plurality of phrases based on a corresponding relevancy measurement and a corresponding diversity measurement for each phrase in the selected group of phrases, the relevancy measurement comprising a measure of relevance of the corresponding selected phrase in the selected group of phrases to the type of job, and the diversity measurement comprising a measure of distinction between each phrase in the selected group of phrases and other phrases in the selected group of the phrases; generating a recommendation for a page of a first user based on the selected group of phrases, the recommendation comprising a suggested addition of the selected group of phrases to the page of the first user; and causing the generated recommendation for the page of the first user to be displayed on a computing device of the first user.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the selecting the group of phrases from the plurality of phrases comprises: for each one of the plurality of phrases, generating the corresponding relevance measurement; ranking the plurality of phrases based on their corresponding relevance measurements; selecting a first phrase of the plurality of phrases for inclusion in the group of phrases based on the first phrase having a highest ranking amongst the plurality of phrases; identifying a second phrase of the plurality of phrases based on the second phrase having a second highest ranking amongst the plurality of phrases; determining a diversity measurement of the second phrase indicating the measure of distinction between the second phrase and the first phrase; and determining whether or not to include the second phrase in the group of phrases based on the determined diversity measurement of the second phrase.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the determining whether or not to include the second phrase in the group of phrases comprises including the second phrase in the group of phrases based on the determined diversity measurement of the second phrase.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the determining whether or not to include the second phrase in the group of phrases comprises excluding the second phrase from the group of phrases based on the determined diversity measurement of the second phrase.
</claims>
</document>
