<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/30,G06N3/08,H02H1/00,H02H9/00,H02J1/10,H02J7/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUANTA COMPUTER
</assignee>

<inventors>
YANG CHIH-WEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66379693
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for chassis voltage drop compensation
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for compensating for voltage drops in a device having a remote node is disclosed. A power supply unit has an adjustable voltage output and a feedback circuit. A power path is coupled to the power supply unit to supply voltage to the remote node. A switch has an output coupled to the feedback circuit, a first input coupled to the power path, and a second input coupled to the remote node. A controller is coupled to the switch. The controller is operable to control the switch to switch between the inputs to cause the feedback circuit of the power supply unit to compensate the voltage output for a voltage drop on the power path or the remote node.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A voltage compensation system for voltage drops in a device having a remote node, the voltage compensation system comprising: a power supply unit having an adjustable voltage output and a feedback circuit, wherein the voltage output is adjusted based on the output of the feedback circuit; a power path coupled to the power supply unit, wherein the power path is operable to supply voltage from the power supply unit to the remote node; a switch having an output coupled to the feedback circuit, the switch switching the output between a first input coupled to the power path, and a second input coupled to the remote node; and a controller coupled to the switch, wherein the controller is operable to control the switch to switch between the inputs to cause the feedback circuit of the power supply unit to compensate the voltage output for a voltage drop on the power path or the remote node.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a power distribution board, wherein the switch and controller are on the power distribution board, and wherein the controller is a chassis management controller.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the remote node is one of a server, a storage device backplane, or a fans board.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising an enable power switch, wherein the controller is operable to: control the enable power switch to supply voltage to the remote node to power up the remote node; control the switch to switch to the second input coupled to the remote node when the remote node is powered up; and increase the voltage output of the power supply unit to a pre-emphasis level to compensate for inrush current.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the controller determines a path resistance of the remote node based on sensing a current from the power supply unit and the voltage drop.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the determined path resistance is used as an input to a neural network to determine the pre-emphasis voltage output to compensate for inrush current, wherein the neural network includes weight vectors determined from training through a training set of data.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the feedback circuit is an operational amplifier.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the remote node includes a baseboard management controller operable for sensing the voltage drop from the remote node.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the baseboard management controller sends voltage drop data to the controller via a bus.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the controller includes an analog to digital converter having an input and an output, wherein the voltage drop data received by the controller is coupled to the input of the analog to digital converter, and wherein the output of the analog to digital converter is coupled to the second input of the switch.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the remote node is one of a plurality of remote nodes, and wherein the controller is operable to sum the corresponding voltage drops of each of the plurality of remote nodes, and wherein the sum of the corresponding voltage drops is connected to one of the inputs of the switch.
12. A method of compensating remote voltage drops for a system having a power supply unit; a power path coupled to the power supply unit; a remote node powered by the power supply unit through the power path; and a switch having an output coupled to the feedback circuit, a first input coupled to the power path and a second input coupled to the remote node, the method comprising: switching the switch to the second input via a controller to determine the voltage drop from the remote node; outputting a feedback signal based on the voltage drop from the remote node to the power supply unit; and adjusting a voltage level of the power supply unit based on the feedback signal to compensate for the voltage drop.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the system includes a power distribution board, and wherein the switch and controller are on the power distribution board, and wherein the controller is a chassis management controller.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the remote node is one of a server, a storage device backplane, or a fans board.
15. The method of claim 12, further comprising: controlling an enable power switch to supply voltage to the remote node to power up the remote node; controlling the switch to switch to the second input coupled to the remote node when the remote node is powered up; and increase the voltage output to a pre-emphasis level to compensate for inrush current.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: sensing a current from the power supply unit; and determining a path resistance value of the remote node based on the sensed current and the voltage drop.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the pre-emphasis level to compensate for inrush current is determined by a neural network, wherein the neural network includes weight vectors determined from training through a training set of data.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the remote node includes a baseboard management controller operable for sensing the voltage drop from the remote node.
19. The method of claim 12, wherein the remote node is one of a plurality of remote nodes, and wherein the controller is operable to sum the corresponding voltage drops of each of the plurality of remote nodes, and wherein the sum of the corresponding voltage drops is connected to one of the inputs of the switch.
20. A multi-node system comprising: a power distribution board; a power supply unit mounted on the power distribution board, the power supply unit including a feedback circuit and an adjustable voltage output; a plurality of nodes including a computing node and a storage backplane node, each of the plurality of nodes coupled to the adjustable voltage output of the power supply unit; a controller mounted on the power distribution board, wherein the controller receives voltage drop data from each of the plurality of nodes; and a switch having an output representing a voltage drop coupled to the feedback circuit, the output switching between a first input coupled to the power distribution board and a second input coupled to the controller to receive voltage drop data from at least one of the plurality of nodes, wherein the power supply unit adjusts the voltage output to compensate for voltage drops received by the feedback circuit.
</claims>
</document>
