<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-01-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F40/205,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EVERNOTE CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GORBATOV, BORIS
PASHINTSEV, ALEXANDER
LIVSHITZ, EUGENE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72140991
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BUILDING TRAINING DATA AND SIMILARITY RELATIONS FOR SEMANTIC SPACE
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for selecting data from a source text corpus for training a semantic data analysis system. The method includes selecting an item of the text corpus, wherein the item includes at least one section. The method includes extracting a section of the at least one section of the item. The method also includes determining a length of the section of the at least one section of the item. Based on the length of the section being greater than a predetermined amount, the method includes subdividing the section into a plurality of fragments. Each fragment of the plurality of fragments is deemed to be similar to each other. Further, the method includes building a training set based on the plurality of fragments. The training set is used to train the semantic data analysis system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of selecting data from a source text corpus for training a semantic data analysis system, comprising: selecting an item of the text corpus, wherein the item includes at least one section; extracting a section of the at least one section of the item; determining a length of the section of the at least one section of the item; based on the length of the section being greater than a predetermined amount, subdividing the section into a plurality of fragments, wherein each fragment of the plurality of fragments is deemed to be similar to each other; and building a training set based on the plurality of fragments, wherein the training set is used to train the semantic data analysis system.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein building the training set includes: updating a similarity relation between each fragment in the training set data; and updating a fragment count of the training set data.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: after updating the fragment count of the training set data, comparing the fragment count with a predetermined fragment value; and in accordance with a determination that the fragment count is below the predetermined fragment value, selecting another item of the text corpus.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the item is a first item and the plurality of fragments is a first plurality of fragments; and the method further comprises: selecting a second item of the text corpus, wherein the second item includes at least one section; extracting a section of the at least one section of the second item; determining a length of the section of the at least one section of the second item; based on the length of the section being greater than a predetermined amount, subdividing the section into a second plurality of fragments, wherein: each fragment of the second plurality of fragments is deemed to be similar to each other, and each fragment of the second plurality of fragments is deemed to be dissimilar to each fragment of the first plurality of fragments, and including the second plurality of fragments in the training set.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: after including the second plurality of fragments in the training set, updating a similarity relation between each fragment in the training set data; and updating a fragment count of the training set data.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: after updating the fragment count of the training set data, comparing the fragment count with a predetermined fragment value; and in accordance with a determination that the fragment count satisfies the predetermined fragment value, forgo selecting another item of the text corpus.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising; determining whether the item includes another section; in accordance with a determination that the item includes another section, extracting the other section of the item; based on the length of the other section being greater than a predetermined amount, subdividing the other section into another plurality of fragments, wherein each fragment of the other plurality of fragments is deemed to be similar to each other and deemed to be of undefined similarity with regard to the plurality of fragments; and including the other plurality of fragments in the training set.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined amount is approximately twice a size of a fragment.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein a fragment has approximately 100 words.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein a fragment has between 40 and 60 words.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein sections of the plurality of section having a length less than the predetermined amount are ignored.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the item is an article.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein similar fragments are semantically similar.
14. A computer server system for selecting data from a source text corpus for training a semantic data analysis system, the computer server system comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer server system to perform operations including: selecting an item of the text corpus, wherein the item includes at least one section; extracting a section of the at least one section of the item; determining a length of the section of the at least one section of the item; based on the length of the section being greater than a predetermined amount, subdividing the section into a plurality of fragments, wherein each fragment of the plurality of fragments is deemed to be similar to each other; and building a training set based on the plurality of fragments, wherein the training set is used to train the semantic data analysis system.
15. The computer server system of claim 14, wherein building the training set includes: updating a similarity relation between each fragment in the training set data; and updating a fragment count of the training set data.
16. The computer server system of claim 15, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer server system to perform operations including: after updating the fragment count of the training set data, comparing the fragment count with a predetermined fragment value; and in accordance with a determination that the fragment count is below the predetermined fragment value, selecting another item of the text corpus.
17. The computer server system of claim 14, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer server system to perform operations including: determining whether the item includes another section; in accordance with a determination that the item includes another section, extracting the other section of the item; based on the length of the other section being greater than a predetermined amount, subdividing the other section into another plurality of fragments, wherein each fragment of the other plurality of fragments is deemed to be similar to each other and deemed to be of undefined similarity with regard to the plurality of fragments; and including the other plurality of fragments in the training set.
18. A non-transitory computer readable medium configured to select data from a source text corpus for training a semantic data analysis system, the non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions which, when executed on at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: select an item of the text corpus, wherein the item includes at least one section; extract a section of the at least one section of the item; determine a length of the section of the at least one section of the item; based on the length of the section being greater than a predetermined amount, subdivide the section into a plurality of fragments, wherein each fragment of the plurality of fragments is deemed to be similar to each other; and build a training set based on the plurality of fragments, wherein the training set is used to train the semantic data analysis system.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein building the training set includes: updating a similarity relation between each fragment in the training set data; and updating a fragment count of the training set data.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, further comprising instructions which, when executed on at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: after updating the fragment count of the training set data, compare the fragment count with a predetermined fragment value; and in accordance with a determination that the fragment count is below the predetermined fragment value, select another item of the text corpus.
</claims>
</document>
