<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-09-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SINGH, VIVEK K.
SASTRY, KUMARA
BAIDYA, BIKRAM
GU, ALLAN
KAGALWALLA, ABDE ALI HUNAID
</assignee>

<inventors>
SINGH, VIVEK K.
SASTRY, KUMARA
BAIDYA, BIKRAM
GU, ALLAN
KAGALWALLA, ABDE ALI HUNAID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69101443
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ITERATIVE SUPERVISED IDENTIFICATION OF NON-DOMINANT CLUSTERS
</title>

<abstract>
A method comprising determining a binary classification value for each of a plurality of data instances based on a first threshold value assigned to each of the plurality of data instances; applying at least one clustering model to a first subset of the plurality of data instances to identify one or more dominant clusters of data instances; determining a second threshold value to assign to a second plurality of data instances that are included within the one or more dominant clusters of data instances; and redetermining a binary classification value for each of the plurality of data instances based on the second threshold value assigned to the second plurality of data instances and the first threshold value, wherein the first threshold value is assigned to at least a portion of data instances of the plurality of data instances that are not included in the second plurality of data instances.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. At least one machine readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon, the instructions when executed by a machine to cause the machine to: determine a binary classification value for each of a plurality of data instances based on a first threshold value assigned to each of the plurality of data instances; apply at least one clustering model to a first subset of the plurality of data instances to identify one or more dominant clusters of data instances; determine a second threshold value to assign to a second plurality of data instances that are included within the one or more dominant clusters of data instances; and redetermine a binary classification value for each of the plurality of data instances based on the second threshold value assigned to the second plurality of data instances and the first threshold value, wherein the first threshold value is assigned to at least a portion of data instances of the plurality of data instances that are not included in the second plurality of data instances.
2. The at least one medium of claim 1, wherein the plurality of data instances are images and the first threshold value corresponds to a pixel intensity difference.
3. The at least one medium of claim 1, wherein the first threshold value corresponds to a polygon area difference.
4. The at least one medium of claim 1, wherein the plurality of data instances comprise image patches of an image of a semiconductor wafer taken by an optical microscope.
5. The at least one medium of claim 1, wherein a binary classification value determined for a data instance indicates whether the data instance includes a defect.
6. The at least one medium of claim 1, the instructions when executed by a machine to cause the machine to: access a design file to construct feature vectors for the data instances of the one or more dominant clusters; and apply at least one clustering model to the feature vectors to determine region clusters.
7. The at least one medium of claim 6, the instructions when executed by a machine to cause the machine to assign the second threshold value to data instances corresponding to the determined region clusters.
8. The at least one medium of claim 7, the instructions when executed by a machine to cause the machine to assign the first threshold value to all remaining data instances of the plurality of data instances that do not correspond to the determined region clusters.
9. The at least one medium of claim 1, wherein applying at least one clustering model to the first subset of the plurality of data instances to identify one or more dominant clusters of data instances comprises clustering the first subset of the plurality of data instances based on one or more image analysis metrics.
10. The at least one medium of claim 1, wherein the plurality of data instances comprise a plurality of text collections and wherein a binary classification value determined for a data instance indicates whether the data instance is non-fiction or fiction.
11. A method comprising: determining a binary classification value for each of a plurality of data instances based on a first threshold value assigned to each of the plurality of data instances; applying at least one clustering model to a first subset of the plurality of data instances to identify one or more dominant clusters of data instances; determining a second threshold value to assign to a second plurality of data instances that are included within the one or more dominant clusters of data instances; and redetermining a binary classification value for each of the plurality of data instances based on the second threshold value assigned to the second plurality of data instances and the first threshold value, wherein the first threshold value is assigned to at least a portion of data instances of the plurality of data instances that are not included in the second plurality of data instances.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: accessing a design file to construct feature vectors for the data instances of the one or more dominant clusters; and applying at least one clustering model to the feature vectors to determine region clusters.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising assigning the second threshold value to data instances corresponding to the determined region clusters.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising assigning the first threshold value to all remaining data instances of the plurality of data instances that do not correspond to the determined region clusters.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein applying at least one clustering model to the first subset of the plurality of data instances to identify one or more dominant clusters of data instances comprises clustering the first subset of the plurality of data instances based on one or more image analysis metrics.
16. A system comprising: a memory to store a plurality of data instances; and a processor coupled to the memory, the processor to: determine a binary classification value for each of the plurality of data instances based on a first threshold value assigned to each of the plurality of data instances; apply at least one clustering model to a first subset of the plurality of data instances to identify one or more dominant clusters of data instances; determine a second threshold value to assign to a second plurality of data instances that are included within the one or more dominant clusters of data instances; and redetermine a binary classification value for each of the plurality of data instances based on the second threshold value assigned to the second plurality of data instances and the first threshold value, wherein the first threshold value is assigned to at least a portion of data instances of the plurality of data instances that are not included in the second plurality of data instances.
17. The system of claim 16, the processor to: accessing a design file to construct feature vectors for the data instances of the one or more dominant clusters; and applying at least one clustering model to the feature vectors to determine region clusters.
18. The system of claim 17, the processor to assign the second threshold value to data instances corresponding to the determined region clusters.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein applying at least one clustering model to the first subset of the plurality of data instances to identify one or more dominant clusters of data instances comprises clustering the first subset of the plurality of data instances based on one or more image analysis metrics.
20. The system of claim 16, further comprising an optical microscope to capture the plurality of data instances.
</claims>
</document>
