<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON VIRGINIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHAO, YUNZHE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606079
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICES, SYSTEMS, AND METHODS FOR LIMITED-SIZE DIVISIVE CLUSTERING
</title>

<abstract>
Some embodiments of devices, systems, and methods generate a respective connection mask at each defect detection location in a binary defect map, wherein each detection location in the binary defect map has a value that indicates that the detection location either has a defect or, alternatively, does not have a defect; generate one or more clusters of defect detection locations in the binary defect map based on each defect location's respective connection mask and on the binary defect map; generate respective bounding boxes for the one or more clusters; and recursively perform the following: checking respective sizes of the bounding boxes, and spitting any clusters of the one or more clusters that have respective bounding boxes with sizes that exceed one or more thresholds, thereby generating additional clusters of defect locations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device comprising: one or more computer-readable storage media; and one or more processors that are configured to cause the device to perform operations including: generating a respective connection mask at each defect detection location in a binary defect map, wherein each detection location in the binary defect map has a value that indicates that the detection location either has a defect or, alternatively, does not have a defect; generating one or more clusters of defect detection locations in the binary defect map based on each defect location's respective connection mask and on the binary defect map; generating respective bounding boxes for the one or more clusters; and recursively performing: checking respective sizes of the bounding boxes, and spitting any clusters of the one or more clusters that have respective bounding boxes with sizes that exceed one or more thresholds, thereby generating additional clusters of defect locations.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein spitting a cluster of the one or more clusters that have respective bounding boxes with sizes that exceed the one or more thresholds includes decreasing a width distance tolerance or a height distance tolerance of the connection masks of the detection locations in the cluster.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein spitting the cluster of the one or more clusters that have respective bounding boxes with sizes that exceed the one or more thresholds includes generating one or more new clusters of the defect detection locations in the cluster based on the connection masks of the detection locations in the cluster after decreasing the width distance tolerance or the size distance tolerance of the connection masks.
4. The device of claim 1, where each detection location is a pixel.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further include: displaying the bounding boxes on an image of an object, where the bounding boxes are superimposed on the image.
6. A method comprising: obtaining a defect map, wherein each detection location in the defect map has either a value that indicates that the detection location has a defect or, alternatively, a value that indicates that the detection location does not have a defect; generating a respective connection mask at each detection location in the defect map; generating one or more clusters of defect detection locations in the defect map based on each defect detection location's respective connection mask and on the binary defect map; generating a respective bounding box for each of the one or more clusters of defect detection locations; identifying a bounding box of the respective bounding boxes that exceeds a size threshold; decreasing a distance tolerance of the connection masks of the defect detection locations in the cluster that corresponds to the bounding box, thereby generating first smaller connection masks; generating one or more first additional clusters of defect detection locations from the defect detection locations in the cluster that corresponds to the bounding box based on the first smaller connection masks; and generating a respective first bounding box for each of the one or more first additional clusters of defect detection locations.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: identifying a first bounding box of the respective first bounding boxes that exceeds the size threshold; further decreasing the distance tolerance of the connection masks of the defect detection locations in the first additional cluster that corresponds to the first bounding box, thereby generating second smaller connection masks; generating one or more second additional clusters of defect detection locations from the defect detection locations in the first additional cluster that corresponds to the first bounding box based on the second smaller connection masks; and generating a respective second bounding box for each of the one or more second additional clusters of defect detection locations.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein each detection location is a respective patch.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein each detection location is a respective pixel.
10. The method of claim 6, wherein the size threshold is a width threshold or a height threshold.
11. The method of claim 6, wherein generating one or more clusters of defect detection locations in the defect map based on each defect detection location's respective connection mask and on the binary defect map includes: adding defect detection locations to a cluster if the respective connection masks of the defect detection locations overlap.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein generating one or more clusters of defect detection locations in the defect map based on each defect detection location's respective connection mask and on the binary defect map includes: adding defect detection locations to the cluster if the respective connection masks of the defect detection locations overlap at least one connection mask of the defect locations in the cluster.
13. The method of claim 6, wherein the defect map is a binary defect map.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: generating the defect map from an anomaly-score image.
15. One or more computer-readable storage media storing instructions that, when executed by one or more computing devices, cause the one or more computing devices to perform operations comprising: generating a respective connection mask at each defect detection location in a binary defect map, wherein each detection location in the binary defect map has a value that indicates that the detection location either has a defect or, alternatively, does not have a defect; generating one or more clusters of defect detection locations in the binary defect map based on each defect location's respective connection mask and on the binary defect map; generating respective bounding boxes for the one or more clusters; and recursively performing: checking respective sizes of the bounding boxes, and spitting any clusters of the one or more clusters that have respective bounding boxes with sizes that exceed one or more thresholds, thereby generating additional clusters of defect locations.
</claims>
</document>
