<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/04,A61B5/0488,A61B5/0492,A61N1/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALKHALDI, MARYAM
ALHATHAL, MESHAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALKHALDI, MARYAM
ALHATHAL, MESHAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73746258
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MUSCLE FASCICLE MEASUREMENT
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure is directed to muscle fascicle measurement systems and methods. A measurement device with electrodes placed in proximity to a target muscle of a subject's body. Stimulating signals may be transmitted by first electrodes placed along a muscle fascicle belonging to a particular muscle and the muscle response is sensed by second electrodes placed in proximity to the particular muscle. Signals sensed by the second electrodes are processed to determine one or more characteristics of the particular muscle fascicle and/or one or more characteristics of a nerve associated with the muscle fascicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a first set of electrodes disposed in a first region corresponding to a set of a plurality of muscle fascicles of a subject; a second set of electrodes disposed in the first region corresponding to the set of the plurality of muscle fascicles; a stimulation device configured to: transmit a first signal to a first electrode of the first set of electrodes; and transmit a second signal to a second electrode of the first set of electrodes, the second signal having less power than the first signal; a sensing device configured to detect a first response signal using a first detecting electrode in response to transmission of the first signal and the second signal; and a processor configured to determine at least one feature of a first muscle fascicle among the set of the plurality of muscle fascicles based on the first response signal.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one feature comprises at least one of an indication of a responsiveness of a nerve associated with the first muscle fascicle or an indication of a quality of the first muscle fascicle.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a second detecting electrode configured to detect a second response signal in response to transmission of the first signal and the second signal, wherein each of the first detecting electrode and the second detecting electrode comprises a pair of detecting electrodes; and a reference electrode configured to be disposed in a second region that is different than the first region, the reference electrode to provide a reference signal to the sensing device, wherein the sensing device is configured to aggregate the reference signal, the first response signal, and the second response signal.
4. The system of claim 3, further comprising a locking sub-system operable to transition the first electrode between a locked state and an unlocked state.
5. The system of claim 4, the locking sub-system comprising: a first track, and a second track opposing the first track, wherein the second track is configured to move toward the first track to transition the first electrode in the locked state between the first track and the second track.
6. The system of claim 5, the locking sub-system further comprising a handle configured to engage with the second track to adjust a position of the second track relative to the first track.
7. The system of claim 6, the locking sub-system further comprising a key configured to couple with the handle to control operation of the handle to transition the first electrode between the locked state and the unlocked state.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first set of electrodes in the first detecting electrode are configured to be positioned proximate to a first end of the set of a plurality of muscle fascicles located on a first end of the set of the plurality of muscle fascicles; and wherein the second set of electrodes in the second detecting electrode are configured to be positioned proximate to a second end of the set of a plurality of muscle fascicles.
9. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a gel dispenser configured to dispense gel at a location between the first set of electrodes and an epidermis of the subject.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the gel dispenser is configured to dispense gel at a plurality of instances according to a selected frequency of time.
11. The system of claim 9, further comprising: a humidity sensor configured to determine a humidity level value in an area proximate to the first region, wherein the gel dispenser is configured to dispense gel in response to determining the humidity level does not satisfy a humidity level threshold.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the gel dispenser is configured to dispense gel at a plurality of instances corresponding to an exercise program.
13. A method comprising: transmitting a first signal to a first electrode of a first set of electrodes, the first electrode disposed proximate to a first muscle fascicle; transmitting a second signal to a second electrode of the first set of electrodes, the second electrode disposed proximate to a set of additional muscle fascicles adjacent to the first muscle fascicle, wherein the second signal has less power than the first signal; detecting, using a second set of electrodes, a first response signal in response to transmission of the first signal and the second signal; detecting, using the second set of electrodes, a second response signal in response to transmission of the first signal and the second signal; receiving a reference signal from a reference electrode disposed in a region other than where the muscle fascicles are located, wherein determining the first feature of the muscle fascicle comprises determining the at least one feature based on the reference signal, the first response signal, and the second response signal and determining, by a processor, a first feature of the muscle fascicle based at least in part on the first response signal, the second response signal, and the reference signal.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the first feature comprises at least one of an indication of a responsiveness of a nerve associated with the first muscle fascicle or an indication of a quality of the first muscle fascicle.
15. The method of claim 13, further comprising: a first track, and a second track opposing the first track, wherein the second track is configured to move toward the first track to transition the first electrode in the locked state between the first track and the second track.
16. The method of claim 13, further comprising: transmitting a third signal to a third electrode of the first set of electrodes; transmitting a fourth signal to a fourth electrode of the first set of electrodes, wherein the fourth signal has less power than the third signal; receiving a third response signal at a first pair of electrodes of the second set of electrodes; receiving a fourth response signal at a second pair of electrodes in the second set of electrodes; and determining at least one feature of the first muscle fascicle based on the first response signal, the second response signal, the third response signal, and the fourth response signal.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: transmitting two or more test signals via the first set of electrodes; receiving a first test response signal via the second set of electrodes; displaying amplitude information and phase information of the first test response signal; and updating the displayed amplitude and phase information in response to movements of the first set of electrodes and the second set of electrodes.
18. The method of claim 13, further comprising: receiving, from at least one sensor, data indicative of a humidity level in an area associated with the first electrode; determining the humidity level fails to satisfy a humidity level threshold; and controlling a gel dispenser to dispense a first amount of gel in at least a portion of the area in response to the data indicative of the humidity level failing to satisfy the humidity level threshold.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising controlling one or more valves of the gel dispenser in the portion of the area to establish an open position; and controlling the gel dispenser to dispense the amount of gel corresponding to the humidity level through the one or more valves of the gel dispenser.
20. The method of claim 13, further comprising: tracking an amount of lapsed time since a previous disposition of gel by the gel dispenser; determining the amount of lapsed time satisfies a time period threshold; and dispensing gel in response to the amount of time satisfying the time period threshold.
</claims>
</document>
