<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GANESH, AMIT
GOPALAKRISHNAN, SUMATHI
SALUNKE, SAMPANNA SHAHAJI
GARVEY, DUSTIN
FRAZIER, TIMOTHY MARK
ENCK, BRENT ARTHUR
GOODMAN, NEIL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72040693
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for automatically detecting, summarizing, and responding to anomalies
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are disclosed for summarizing, diagnosing, and correcting the cause of anomalous behavior in computing systems. In some embodiments, a system identifies a plurality of time series that track different metrics over time for a set of one or more computing resources. The system detects a first set of anomalies in a first time series that tracks a first metric and assigns a different respective range of time to each anomaly. The system determines whether the respective range of time assigned to an anomaly overlaps with timestamps or ranges of time associated with anomalies from one or more other time series. The system generates at least one cluster that groups metrics based on how many anomalies have respective ranges of time and/or timestamps that overlap. The system may preform, based on the cluster, one or more automated actions for diagnosing or correcting a cause of anomalous behavior.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: identifying a plurality of time series that track different metrics over time for a set of one or more computing resources; detecting a first set of anomalies in a first time series, of the plurality of time series, that tracks a first metric over time; assigning a different respective range of time to each anomaly in the first set of anomalies; determining for said each anomaly whether the respective range of time assigned to the anomaly overlaps with timestamps or ranges of time associated with anomalies from one or more other time series, of the plurality of time series, that track one or more other metrics over time; generating a cluster that groups the first metric and at least a second metric from the one or more other metrics based on how many anomalies in the first set of anomalies have respective ranges of time that overlap with timestamps or ranges of time associated with anomalies from the one or more other time series; performing, based on at least the cluster, at least one automated action for diagnosing or correcting a cause of anomalous behavior exhibited by at least one metric on at least one computing resource in the set of one or more computing resources.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a score for the cluster as a function of at least a set of relative severities for anomalies detected in the first metric and at least the second metric.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one automated action is further performed based on the score generated for the cluster.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating summary information for the cluster that identifies how many anomalies in an application are accounted for by members of the cluster.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the cluster is a first group of metrics, the method further comprising generating a second group of metrics, different than the first group of metrics, that matches a set of one or more application dimensions and also includes the first metric; generating a first score for the first group of metrics and a second score for the second group of metrics, wherein the at least one automated action is further based on the first score and the second score.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the set of one or more application dimensions wherein the second group of metrics are matched to a particular resource type.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one automated action includes presenting a set of anomaly summaries that satisfy a threshold score.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one automated action includes at least one of applying a patch, restarting a resource, shutting down a resource, migrating a resource, or adjusting a resource configuration.
9. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions, which when executed by one or more hardware processors, cause: identifying a plurality of time series that track different metrics over time for a set of one or more computing resources; detecting a first set of anomalies in a first time series, of the plurality of time series, that tracks a first metric over time; assigning a different respective range of time to each anomaly in the first set of anomalies; determining for said each anomaly whether the respective range of time assigned to the anomaly overlaps with timestamps or ranges of time associated with anomalies from one or more other time series, of the plurality of time series, that track one or more other metrics over time; generating a cluster that groups the first metric and at least a second metric from the one or more other metrics based on how many anomalies in the first set of anomalies have respective ranges of time that overlap with timestamps or ranges of time associated with anomalies from the one or more other time series; performing, based on at least the cluster, at least one automated action for diagnosing or correcting a cause of anomalous behavior exhibited by at least one metric on at least one computing resource in the set of one or more computing resources.
10. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 9, wherein the instructions further cause generating a score for the cluster as a function of at least a set of relative severities for anomalies detected in the first metric and at least the second metric.
11. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 10, wherein the at least one automated action is further performed based on the score generated for the cluster.
12. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 9, wherein the instructions further cause generating summary information for the cluster that identifies how many anomalies in an application are accounted for by members of the cluster.
13. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 9, wherein the cluster is a first group of metrics, the instructions further causing generating a second group of metrics, different than the first group of metrics, that matches a set of one or more application dimensions and also includes the first metric; generating a first score for the first group of metrics and a second score for the second group of metrics, wherein the at least one automated action is further based on the first score and the second score.
14. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 13, wherein the set of one or more application dimensions wherein the second group of metrics are matched to a particular resource type.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 9, wherein the at least one automated action includes presenting a set of anomaly summaries that satisfy a threshold score.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 9, wherein the at least one automated action includes at least one of applying a patch, restarting a resource, shutting down a resource, migrating a resource, or adjusting a resource configuration.
17. A system comprising: one or more hardware processors; one or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions, which when executed by the one or more hardware processors, cause: identifying a plurality of time series that track different metrics over time for a set of one or more computing resources; detecting a first set of anomalies in a first time series, of the plurality of time series, that tracks a first metric over time; assigning a different respective range of time to each anomaly in the first set of anomalies; determining for said each anomaly whether the respective range of time assigned to the anomaly overlaps with timestamps or ranges of time associated with anomalies from one or more other time series, of the plurality of time series, that track one or more other metrics over time; generating a cluster that groups the first metric and at least a second metric from the one or more other metrics based on how many anomalies in the first set of anomalies have respective ranges of time that overlap with timestamps or ranges of time associated with anomalies from the one or more other time series; performing, based on at least the cluster, at least one automated action for diagnosing or correcting a cause of anomalous behavior exhibited by at least one metric on at least one computing resource in the set of one or more computing resources.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the instructions further cause generating a score for the cluster as a function of at least a set of relative severities for anomalies detected in the first metric and at least the second metric.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the at least one automated action is further performed based on the score generated for the cluster.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein the instructions further cause generating summary information for the cluster that identifies how many anomalies in an application are accounted for by members of the cluster.
</claims>
</document>
