<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06K9/00,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, HYEWON
YEO, Haedong
BYUN, Dongnam
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102696
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC APPARATUS AND CONTROLLING METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is an electronic apparatus, including: a sensor; a camera; a storage configured to store first and second artificial intelligence models; a first processor; and a second processor. The second processor is configured to: input an image obtained through the camera to the first artificial intelligence model and identify the object of the first type in the image, and input the image obtained through the camera to the second artificial intelligence model and identify the object of the second type, at least a part of which is not viewable in the image. The first processor is configured to: determine a distance between the object of the first type and the object of the second type based on sensing data received from the sensor; and control the electronic apparatus to travel based on the determined distance.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic apparatus, comprising: a sensor; a camera; a storage configured to store a first artificial intelligence model trained to identify an object of a first type included in an image and a second artificial intelligence model trained to identify an object of a second type, at least a part of which is not viewable in the image; a first processor connected to the sensor and the storage; and a second processor connected to the camera, the storage, and the first processor, wherein the second processor is configured to: load the first artificial intelligence model and the second artificial intelligence model from the storage; and input an image obtained through the camera to the first artificial intelligence model and identify the object of the first type in the image, input the image obtained through the camera to the second artificial intelligence model and identify the object of the second type, at least a part of which is not viewable in the image, and transmit information regarding the identified object of the first type and information regarding the identified object of the second type to the first processor, and wherein the first processor is configured to: determine a distance between the object of the first type and the object of the second type based on first sensing data received from the sensor; and control the electronic apparatus to travel based on the determined distance.
2. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a driver configured to control traveling of the electronic apparatus, wherein the first processor is configured to, based on the determined distance being greater than a predetermined value, control the driver such that the electronic apparatus is allowed to travel in a close proximity to the object of the first type.
3. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a driver configured to control travelling of the electronic apparatus, wherein the first processor is further configured to, based on the determined distance being less than a predetermined value, control the driver such that the electronic apparatus travels in an area at a predetermined distance or greater away from the object of the second type.
4. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a driver configured to control travelling of the electronic apparatus, wherein the first processor is further configured to, based on the object of the second type not being identified in the image, control the driver such that the electronic apparatus is allowed to travel in a close proximity to the object of the first type.
5. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first processor is further configured to determine a first distance between the electronic apparatus and the object and a second distance between the electronic apparatus and the object of the second type based on the first sensing data received from the sensor, and determine the distance between the object of the first type and the object of the second type based on the first distance and the second distance.
6. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the storage is further configured to store information regarding a map including a plurality of sections, a plurality of first artificial intelligence models for identifying the object of the first type corresponding to the plurality of sections, and a plurality of second artificial intelligence models for identifying the object of the second type corresponding to the plurality of sections.
7. The electronic apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the first processor is further configured to determine a section in which the electronic apparatus is located from among the plurality of sections based on second sensing data received from the sensor, and transmit information regarding the determined section to the second processor, and wherein the second processor is further configured to: identify the object of the first type by inputting the image to a first artificial intelligence model corresponding to the determined section from among the plurality of first artificial intelligence models; and identify the object of the second type by inputting the image to a second artificial intelligence model corresponding to the determined section from among the plurality of second artificial intelligence models.
8. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the second artificial intelligence model is trained to identify the object of the second type of which a collision with the electronic apparatus is to be avoided.
9. A method of controlling an electronic apparatus, the method comprising: obtaining an image through a camera; inputting the image obtained through the camera to a first artificial intelligence model and identifying an object of a first type in the image; inputting the image obtained through the camera to a second artificial intelligence model and identifying an object of a second type, at least a part of which is not viewable in the image; determining a distance between the object of the first type and the object of the second type based on first sensing data received from a sensor; and controlling the electronic apparatus to travel based on the determined distance.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the controlling comprises, based on the determined distance being equal to or greater than a predetermined value, allowing the electronic apparatus to travel in a close proximity to the object of the first type.
11. The method according to claim 9, wherein the controlling comprises, based on the determined distance being less than a predetermined value, controlling the electronic apparatus to travel in an area at a predetermined distance or greater away from the object of the second type.
12. The method according to claim 9, wherein the controlling comprises, based on the object of the second type not being identified in the image, allowing the electronic apparatus to travel in a close proximity to the object of the first type.
13. The method according to claim 9, wherein the determining the distance comprises determining a first distance between the electronic apparatus and the object of the first type and a second distance between the electronic apparatus and the object of the second type based on the first sensing data received from the sensor, and determining the distance between the object of the first type and the object of the second type based on the first distance and the second distance.
14. The method according to claim 9, further comprising: storing, in a storage of the electronic apparatus, information regarding a map including a plurality of sections, a plurality of first artificial intelligence models for identifying the object of the first type corresponding to the plurality of sections, and a plurality of second artificial intelligence models for identifying the object of the second type corresponding to the plurality of sections.
15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the identifying comprises: determining a section in which the electronic apparatus is located from among the plurality of sections based on second sensing data received from the sensor; identifying the object of the first type by inputting the image to a first artificial intelligence model corresponding to the determined section from among the plurality of first artificial intelligence models; and identifying the object of the second type by inputting the image to a second artificial intelligence model corresponding to the determined section from among the plurality of second artificial intelligence models.
16. The method according to claim 9, wherein the second artificial intelligence model is trained to identify the object of the second type of which a collision with the electronic apparatus is to be avoided.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, storing a computer program, which, when executed by at least one processor, causes the at least one processor to perform the method of claim 9.
18. An apparatus for controlling an electronic device, comprising: at least one memory configured to store program code; and at least one processor configured to read the program code and operate as instructed by the program code, the program code comprising: code configured to cause at least one of the at least one processor to load a first artificial intelligence model and a second artificial intelligence model; code configured to cause at least one of the at least one processor to input an image obtained through a camera to the first artificial intelligence model and identify an object of a first type in the image, input the image obtained through the camera to the second artificial intelligence model and identify an object of a second type, at least a part of which is not viewable in the image; code configured to cause at least one of the at least one processor to determine a distance between the object of the first type and the object of the second type based on first sensing data received from a sensor; and code configured to cause at least one of the at least one processor to control a movable range of the electronic device based on the determined distance.
</claims>
</document>
