<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HU MAN REN GONG ZHI NENG KE JI (SHANGHAI)
</assignee>

<inventors>
XU, YI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60037277
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE DATA PROCESSING SYSTEM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A method of recognising human characteristics from image data of a subject. The method comprises extracting a sequence of images of the subject from the image data; from each image estimating an emotion feature metric and a facial mid-level feature metric for the subject; for each image, combining the associated estimated emotion metric and estimated facial mid-level feature metric to form a feature vector, thereby forming a sequence of feature vectors, each feature vector associated with an image of the sequence of images, and inputting the sequence of feature vectors to a human characteristic recognising neural network. The human characteristic recognising neural network is adapted to process the sequence of feature vectors and generate output data corresponding to at least one human characteristic derived from the sequence of feature vectors.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of recognising human characteristics from image data of a subject, said method comprising: extracting a sequence of images of the subject from the image data; from each image estimating an emotion feature metric and a facial mid-level feature metric for the subject; for each image, combining the associated estimated emotion metric and estimated facial mid-level feature metric to form a feature vector, thereby forming a sequence of feature vectors, each feature vector associated with an image of the sequence of images; and inputting the sequence of feature vectors to a human characteristic recognising neural network, wherein said human characteristic recognising neural network is adapted to process the sequence of feature vectors and generate output data corresponding to at least one human characteristic derived from the sequence of feature vectors.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the image data is video data, the extracted sequence of images are facial images of a face of the subject, and the face of the subject is a human face.
3. (canceled)
4. (canceled)
5. A method according to claim 2, wherein the emotion metric is estimated by an emotion recognising neural network trained to recognise a plurality of predetermined emotions from images of human faces.
6. A method according to claim 5, wherein the emotion metric is associated with a human emotion of one or more of anger, contempt, disgust, fear, happiness, sadness and surprise.
7. A method according to claim 5, comprising outputting by the emotion recognising neural network an n-dimensional vector, wherein each component of the vector corresponds to one of the predetermined emotions, and a magnitude of each component of the vector corresponds to a confidence with which the emotion recognising neural network has recognised the emotion.
8. A method according to claim 7, comprising generating further output data corresponding to the n-dimensional vector associated with emotion.
9. A method according to claim 1, wherein the facial mid-level feature metric of the human face is estimated based on an image recognition algorithm, and the facial mid-level feature metric is one or more of gaze, head position and eye closure.
10. (canceled)
11. A method according to claim 1, wherein the human characteristic recognising neural network is trained from video data classified to contain human faces associated with one or more of the plurality of the predetermined human characteristics.
12. A method according to claim 1, wherein the human characteristic recognising neural network is a recurrent neural network.
13. A method according to claim 12, wherein the human characteristic recognising neural network is a Long Short-Term Memory network.
14. A method according to claim 1, wherein the human characteristic recognising neural network is a convolutional neural network.
15. A method according to claim 14, wherein the human characteristic recognising neural network is a WaveNet based neural network.
16. A method according to claim 1, wherein the output data of the human characteristic recognising neural network comprises an n-dimensional vector, wherein each component of the vector corresponds to a human characteristic, and a magnitude of each component of the vector corresponds to an intensity with which that characteristic is detected.
17. A method according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of predetermined characteristics includes one or more of passion, confidence, honesty, nervousness, curiosity, judgment and disagreement.
18. A system for recognising human characteristics from image data of a subject, said system comprising an input unit, an output unit, a processor and memory, wherein said memory has stored thereon processor executable instructions which when executed on the processor control the processor to receive as input, via the input unit, image data; extract a sequence of images of a subject from the image data; from each image estimate an emotion feature metric and a facial mid-level feature metric for the subject; for each image, combine the associated estimated emotion metric and estimated facial mid-level feature metric to form a feature vector, to thereby form a sequence of feature vectors, each feature vector associated with an image of the sequence of images; process the sequence of feature vectors through a human characteristic recognising neural network adapted to generate output data corresponding to at least one human characteristic derived from the sequence of feature vectors, and the output unit is adapted to output the output data generated by the neural network.
19. A system according to claim 18, wherein the image data is video data, the extracted sequence of images are facial images of a face of the subject, and the face of the subject is a human face.
20. (canceled)
21. (canceled)
22. A system according to claim 19, wherein the processor executable instructions further control the processor to estimate the emotion metric using an emotion recognising neural network trained to recognise a plurality of predetermined emotions from images of human faces.
23. A system according to claim 22, wherein the emotion metric is associated with a human emotion of one or more of anger, contempt, disgust, fear, happiness, sadness and surprise
24. A system according to claim 22, wherein the processor executable instructions further control the processor to output by the emotion recognising neural network an n-dimensional vector, wherein each component of the vector corresponds to one of the predetermined emotions, and a magnitude of each component of the vector corresponds to a confidence with which the emotion recognising neural network has recognised the emotion; wherein the output unit is adapted to output the n-dimensional vector associated with emotion.
25. (canceled)
26. (canceled)
27. (canceled)
28. (canceled)
29. (canceled)
30. (canceled)
31. (canceled)
32. (canceled)
33. (canceled)
34. (canceled)
35. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium, comprising computer readable instructions stored thereon, wherein the computer readable instructions, when executed on a suitable computer processor, control the computer processor to perform a method according to claim 1.
36. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
