<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
PAUL, ARNAB
SRINIVASA, NARAYAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66819458
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PARSING REGULAR EXPRESSIONS WITH SPIKING NEURAL NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques and mechanisms for providing a logical state machine with a spiking neural network which includes multiple sets of nodes. Each of the multiple sets of nodes is to implement a different respective state, and each of the multiple spike trains is provided to respective nodes of each of the multiple sets of nodes. A given state of the logical state machine is implemented by configuring respective activation modes of each node of the corresponding set of nodes. The activation mode of a given node enables that node to signal, responsive to its corresponding spike train, that a respective state transition of the logical state machine is to be performed. In another embodiment, the multiple spike trains each represent a different respective character in a system used by data evaluated with the spiking neural network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-25. (canceled)
26. A computer device for detecting a regular expression with a spiking neural network, the computer device comprising circuitry to: provide a first state of a logical state machine with a first set of nodes of a spiking neural network, wherein the logical state machine represents a regular expression to be detected, and wherein multiple sets of nodes of the spiking neural network include the first set of nodes and a second set of nodes, wherein: for each set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes, each node of the set of nodes is to correspond to a different respective input spike train of multiple input spike trains, and for each node of the multiple sets of nodes, a respective mode of the node is to enable the node to configure a respective state of the logical state machine, in response to the corresponding input spike train, with a respective set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes; receive at the first set of nodes, during the first state, an input spike train which corresponds to a node of the first set of nodes; and provide a second state of the logical state machine with the second set of nodes, in response to the input spike train, including circuitry to configure the respective modes of each node of the second set of nodes.
27. The computer device of claim 26, wherein each state of the logical state machine corresponds to a different respective set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes, wherein, for each state of the logical state machine, the state includes a configuration of the respective modes of each node of the corresponding set of nodes.
28. The computer device of claim 26, further comprising circuitry to: provide, in response to the input spike train being received at the first set of nodes, a third state of the logical state machine with a third set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes, including circuitry to configure the respective modes of each node of the third set of nodes, wherein the third state is to be concurrent with the second state.
29. The computer device of claim 26, wherein, for each set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes, each node of the set of nodes is to configure a different respective one and only one state of the logical state machine.
30. The computer device of claim 26, wherein another node of the first set of nodes is to: receive another input spike train; and signal, in response the other input spike train, that the respective modes of each node of the first set of nodes are to be reconfigured or maintained.
31. The computer device of claim 26, wherein the spiking neural network is to perform state transitions of the logical state machine, each state transition to detect a respective character of the regular expression.
32. The computer device of claim 26, wherein the multiple input spike trains are each to correspond to a different respective one and only one character, wherein for each input spike train of the multiple input spike trains, a respective spiking pattern of a spike train is to indicate an instance of the corresponding character of the regular expression.
33. The computer device of claim 26, further comprising circuitry to: configure an initialization state of the spiking neural network, including circuity to configure the respective modes of each node of the first set of nodes, wherein the initialization state is to be configured independent of any of the multiple input spike trains.
34. The computer device of claim 26, wherein for one set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes, a node of the one set of nodes is to output a signal indicating that a search criteria has been satisfied, the search criteria including a string of characters.
35. The computer device of claim 34, wherein each node of the set of nodes is to output a respective signal indicating that the search criteria has been satisfied.
36. At least one machine readable medium including instructions that, when executed by a machine, cause the machine to perform operations for detecting a regular expression with a spiking neural network, the operations comprising: providing a first state of a logical state machine with a first set of nodes of the spiking neural network, wherein the logical state machine represents a regular expression to be detected, and wherein multiple sets of nodes of the spiking neural network include the first set of nodes and a second set of nodes, wherein: for each set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes, each node of the set of nodes corresponds to a different respective input spike train of multiple spike trains, and for each node of the multiple sets of nodes, a respective mode of the node enables the node to configure a respective state of the logical state machine, in response to the corresponding input spike train, with a respective set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes; receiving at the first set of nodes, during the first state, an input spike train which corresponds to a node of the first set of nodes; and providing a second state of the logical state machine with the second set of nodes, in response to the input spike train, including circuitry to configure the respective modes of each node of the second set of nodes.
37. The least one machine readable medium of claim 36, wherein each state of the logical state machine corresponds to a different respective set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes, wherein, for each state of the logical state machine, the state includes a configuration of the respective modes of each node of the corresponding set of nodes.
38. The least one machine readable medium of claim 36, the operations further comprising: in response to receiving the input spike train at the first set of nodes, providing a third state of the logical state machine with a third set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes, including configuring the respective modes of each node of the third set of nodes, wherein the third state is concurrent with the second state.
39. The least one machine readable medium of claim 36, wherein, for each set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes, each node of the set of nodes is coupled to configure a different respective one and only one state of the logical state machine.
40. The least one machine readable medium of claim 36, the operations further comprising: at another node of the first set of nodes: receiving another input spike train; and in response the other input spike train, signaling that the respective modes of each node of the first set of nodes are to be reconfigured or maintained.
41. The least one machine readable medium of claim 36, wherein the spiking neural network performs state transitions of the logical state machine, each state transition to detect a respective character of the regular expression.
42. The least one machine readable medium of claim 36, wherein the multiple input spike trains each correspond to a different respective one and only one character, wherein for each input spike train of the multiple input spike trains, a respective spiking pattern of a spike train indicates an instance of the corresponding character of the regular expression.
43. The least one machine readable medium of claim 36, the operations further comprising: configuring an initialization state of the spiking neural network, including configuring the respective modes of each node of the first set of nodes, the configuring the initialization state independent of any of the multiple input spike trains.
44. The least one machine readable medium of claim 36, wherein for one set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes, a node of the one set of nodes outputs a signal indicating that a search criteria has been satisfied, the search criteria including a string of characters.
45. The least one machine readable medium of claim 44, wherein each node of the set of nodes is to output a respective signal indicating that the search criteria has been satisfied.
46. A computer method for detecting a regular expression with a spiking neural network, the method comprising: providing a first state of a logical state machine with a first set of nodes of the spiking neural network, wherein the logical state machine represents a regular expression to be detected, and wherein multiple sets of nodes of the spiking neural network include the first set of nodes and a second set of nodes, wherein: for each set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes, each node of the set of nodes corresponds to a different respective input spike train of multiple input spike trains, and for each node of the multiple sets of nodes, a respective mode of the node enables the node to configure a respective state of the logical state machine, in response to the corresponding input spike train, with a respective set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes; receiving at the first set of nodes, during the first state, an input spike train which corresponds to a node of the first set of nodes; and providing a second state of the logical state machine with the second set of nodes, in response to receiving the input spike train at the first set of nodes, including configuring the respective modes of each node of the second set of nodes.
47. The method of claim 46, wherein each state of the logical state machine corresponds to a different respective set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes, wherein, for each state of the logical state machine, the state includes a configuration of the respective modes of each node of the corresponding set of nodes.
48. The method of claim 46, further comprising: in response to receiving the input spike train at the first set of nodes, providing a third state of the logical state machine with a third set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes, including configuring the respective modes of each node of the third set of nodes, wherein the third state is concurrent with the second state.
49. The method of claim 46, wherein, for each set of nodes of the multiple sets of nodes, each node of the set of nodes is coupled to configure a different respective one and only one state of the logical state machine.
50. The method of claim 46, further comprising: at another node of the first set of nodes: receiving another input spike train; and in response the other input spike train, signaling that the respective modes of each node of the first set of nodes are to be reconfigured or maintained.
</claims>
</document>
