<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANGRADE
</assignee>

<inventors>
EPSTEIN, LIANA
GOREN, GERSHON
LEHR, STEVEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70727286
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES FOR BIAS REMOVAL IN A PREDICTIVE PERFORMANCE MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are various embodiments for generating an artificial intelligence neural network predictive of performance. A hardware processor can process the artificial intelligence neural network to determining whether a validity value for the artificial intelligence neural network meets a validity threshold. A predictive bias can be computed for the artificial neural network based on non-factored inputs. Nodes of the artificial neural network can be scored to compute an effect on the predictive bias. Another artificial intelligence neural network predictive of performance can be generated excluding a combination of parameters associated with a highest scored node of the artificial intelligence neural network.
</abstract>

<claims>
Therefore, the following is claimed:
1. A system comprising: a memory device; and at least one hardware processor coupled to the memory device, wherein the at least one hardware processor is configured to at least: receive input data describing a plurality of assets associated with an entity; receive a plurality of inputs responsive to a subset of a plurality of queries of a user; generate an artificial intelligence neural network predictive of performance based at least in part on the input data and the plurality of inputs; determine that a validity value for the artificial intelligence neural network meets a validity threshold; responsive to determining that the validity threshold for the artificial intelligence neural network meets the validity threshold, compute a predictive bias of the artificial intelligence neural network associated with at least one non-factored inputs; in response to the predictive bias of the artificial intelligence neural network exceeding a bias threshold, score a plurality of nodes of the artificial intelligence neural network according to an effect on the predictive bias; store a rule preventing a combination of parameters associated with a highest scored node of the artificial intelligence neural network; and generate a second artificial intelligence neural network predictive of performance based at least in part on the input data, the plurality of inputs, and the rule.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the input data excludes the at least one non-factored inputs.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to restrict generation of a third artificial intelligence neural network predictive of performance based on a bias test counter violating a bias testing limit.
4. A system comprising: a memory device; and at least one hardware processor coupled to the memory device, wherein the at least one hardware processor is configured to at least: generate predictive model data comprising a plurality of compartmentalized variables; analyze the predictive model data to determine a plurality of bias values individually corresponding to a respective one of a plurality of protected data types; determine that the at least one of the plurality of bias values violates a bias threshold corresponding to the respective one of the plurality of protected data types; determine a respective contribution for each of the compartmentalized variables on the at least one of the plurality of bias values; identify a particular compartmentalized variable of the plurality of compartmentalized variables based on the respective contribution each of the plurality of compartmentalized variables; and generate second predictive model data comprising a plurality of second compartmentalized variables, the plurality of second compartmentalized variables excluding the particular compartmentalized variable.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to generate a predictive model based on the second predictive model.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to identify the particular compartmentalized variable by ranking the plurality of compartmentalized variables according to the respective contributions.
7. The system of claim 4, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to: analyze the second predictive model data to determine a plurality of second bias values individually corresponding to a respective one of the plurality of protected data types; determine that each of the plurality of bias values does not violate the bias threshold; and in response to determining that the plurality of bias values does not violate the bias threshold, compute a value of a fit of a user based at least in part on the second predictive model data.
8. The system of claim 4, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to: analyze the second predictive model data to determine a plurality of second bias values individually corresponding to a respective one of the plurality of protected data types; determine that the at least one of the plurality of second bias values violates the bias threshold; identify a second particular compartmentalized variable of the plurality of second compartmentalized variables; and generate third predictive model data comprising a plurality of third compartmentalized variables, the plurality of third compartmentalized variables excluding the particular compartmentalized variable and the second compartmentalized variable.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to determine a validity value of a predictive model corresponding to the predictive model data, wherein the plurality of second bias values are determined responsive to the validity value not violating a validity threshold.
10. The system of claim 4, wherein determining the respective contribution for each of the compartmentalized variables on the at least one of the plurality of bias values comprises iterating through the plurality of compartmentalized variables.
11. The system of claim 4, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to determine that a bias test counter corresponding to the predictive model data does not violate a bias testing limit.
12. A process comprising: generating predictive model data comprising a plurality of compartmentalized variables; analyzing the predictive model data to determine a plurality of bias values individually corresponding to a respective one of a plurality of protected data types; determining that the at least one of the plurality of bias values violates a bias threshold corresponding to the respective one of the plurality of protected data types; determining a respective contribution for each of the compartmentalized variables on the at least one of the plurality of bias values; identifying a particular compartmentalized variable of the plurality of compartmentalized variables based on the respective contribution each of the plurality of compartmentalized variables; and generating second predictive model data comprising a plurality of second compartmentalized variables, the plurality of second compartmentalized variables excluding the particular compartmentalized variable.
13. The process of claim 12, wherein generating the predictive model data comprises computing the plurality of compartmentalized variables by applying a machine learning algorithm to a training data set.
14. The process of claim 12, further comprising generating a predictive model based on the second predictive model.
15. The process of claim 12, wherein identifying the particular compartmentalized variable comprises ranking the plurality of compartmentalized variables according to the respective contributions.
16. The process of claim 12, further comprising: analyzing the second predictive model data to determine a plurality of second bias values individually corresponding to a respective one of the plurality of protected data types; determining that each of the plurality of bias values does not violate the bias threshold; and in response to determining that the plurality of bias values does not violate the bias threshold, computing a value of a fit of a user based at least in part on the second predictive model data.
17. The process of claim 12, further comprising: analyzing the second predictive model data to determine a plurality of second bias values individually corresponding to a respective one of the plurality of protected data types; determining that the at least one of the plurality of second bias values violates the bias threshold; identifying a second particular compartmentalized variable of the plurality of second compartmentalized variables; and generating third predictive model data comprising a plurality of third compartmentalized variables, the plurality of third compartmentalized variables excluding the particular compartmentalized variable and the second compartmentalized variable.
18. The process of claim 17, further comprising determining a validity value of a predictive model corresponding to the predictive model data, wherein the plurality of second bias values are determined responsive to the validity value not violating a validity threshold.
19. The process of claim 12, wherein determining the respective contribution for each of the compartmentalized variables on the at least one of the plurality of bias values comprises iterating through the plurality of compartmentalized variables.
20. The process of claim 12, further comprising determining that a bias test counter corresponding to the predictive model data does not violate a bias testing limit.
</claims>
</document>
