<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06Q10/00,H04L29/06,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOSCH AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DUPUIE, SHAWN
SATHYANARAYANAN, DIWAKAR
THORLEY, SIMON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67767433
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Artificial Intelligence for a Vehicle Service Ecosystem
</title>

<abstract>
A service ecosystem for vehicles that includes various components that are connected to a cloud. One or more technicians wearing headsets can be verified and authenticated by the cloud to work on vehicles based on the technician's biometric information and on the vehicle service requested. The service ecosystem may provide instructions to the technicians to perform the vehicle service. The cloud may also provide requested technical service information to the technician and a service advisor and help to load balance technician so that the service can be completed as scheduled.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A service ecosystem for vehicle service, comprising: at least one technician interface device, the at least one technician interface device including a microphone, an ear piece, a display configured to display information, and a wireless communication interface; a distributed network that communicates with the at least one technician interface device, wherein the distributed network connects to vehicle diagnostic databases that includes repair and maintenance instructions and technician information including vehicle service certification level and performance efficiencies for various vehicle repair services, and wherein the distributed network includes a diagnostic processor that is configured to: receive and confirm identification of a first technician and vehicle service certification level to perform a scheduled service procedure on a vehicle based on first identification data; provide step by step instructions for the scheduled service procedure via the at least one technician interface device to the first technician wherein a step is assigned to a technician based on the vehicle service certification level and an efficiency level of the technician for that step; receive confirmation from the first technician that a first step of the scheduled service procedure has been completed; determine whether a second step of the scheduled service procedure has been completed; if second step is not completed, reallocate the second step to another technician; determine if the scheduled service procedure will be completed within a predetermined time; if the scheduled service procedure will not be completed within the predetermined time, request a technician to assist with the scheduled service procedure or load balance between the first technician and a second technician by sending or reassigning an assigned step; and provide a notification if the scheduled service procedure will not be completed.
2. The service ecosystem of claim 1, wherein the at least one technician interface device comprises a first headset and a second headset each including the microphone, the ear piece, glasses, a camera, and the wireless communication interface, wherein the glasses include the display configured to display information; wherein the diagnostic processor is further configured to receive and confirm identification of a second technician and vehicle service certification level to perform a scheduled service procedure on the vehicle based on second identification data; and wherein the diagnostic processor is further configured to provide step by step instructions for the scheduled service procedure via the second headset to the second technician to perform a scheduled service procedure.
3. The service ecosystem of claim 2, wherein the diagnostic processor is further configured to: request the first technician to take a picture of a vehicle component; and send the picture to a third technician with a vehicle service certification level to service a pictured vehicle component.
4. The service ecosystem of claim 3 wherein the diagnostic processor is further configured to: receive an input from the third technician to replace the pictured vehicle component.
5. The service ecosystem of claim 3, wherein the diagnostic processor is further configured to: assign the third technician to repair the pictured vehicle component if the first technician and the second technician are not certified for that repair.
6. The service ecosystem of claim 1, wherein the diagnostic processor further configured to: request the first technician to take a picture of a vehicle component; send the picture to an owner of the vehicle in order to receive an approval to repair or replace a pictured vehicle component; and receive the approval from the owner to repair or replace the pictured vehicle component.
7. The service ecosystem of claim 1, wherein the diagnostic processor is further configured to: request the first technician to take a picture of a vehicle component; send the picture to a third technician with a vehicle service certification level qualified to service a pictured vehicle component; and receive a confirmation from the third technician that a repair of the pictured vehicle component was done correctly.
8. The service ecosystem of claim 1, wherein the diagnostic processor further configured to: display on a remote display a current status of the scheduled service procedure.
9. The service ecosystem of claim 1, wherein the diagnostic processor is further configured to: receive a vehicle identification information from the first technician; and identifying the vehicle to the first technician to verify that it is a correct vehicle to perform the scheduled service procedure.
10. The service ecosystem of claim 2, wherein the diagnostic processor is further configured to: receive a vehicle identification information from the first technician; and identify the vehicle to the first technician to verify that it is a correct vehicle to perform the scheduled service procedure; and verify through the wireless communication interface on the first headset and the second headset that the first technician and the second technician are located in a correct service bay.
11. A method of servicing a vehicle, comprising: receive, via a diagnostic processor of a distributed network, first identification data of a first technician from at least one technician interface device; wherein the at least one technician interface device includes a microphone, an ear piece, a wireless communication interface, and a display that displays information; confirm with the diagnostic processor of the distributed network linked to technician information, a first technician identification and a vehicle service certification level to perform a scheduled service procedure on the vehicle based on the first identification data; provide, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, step by step instructions for the scheduled service procedure via the at least one technician interface device to the first technician; receive, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, confirmation from the first technician through the at least one technician interface device that a first step of the scheduled service procedure has been completed; determine, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, whether a second step of the scheduled service procedure has been completed; if second step is not completed, reallocate, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, the second step to another technician; determine, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, if the scheduled service procedure will be completed within a predetermined time; if the scheduled service procedure will not be completed within the predetermined time, request, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, a technician to assist with the scheduled service procedure or load balance between the first technician and a second technician by sending or reassigning an assigned step; and provide, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, a notification if the scheduled service procedure will not be completed in time.
12. The method of servicing a vehicle of claim 11, comprising: receive, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, second identification data of a second technician from a second one of the at least one technician interface device, provide step by step instructions for the scheduled service procedure via the second one of the at least one technician interface device to the second technician to perform a scheduled service procedure, wherein a step is assigned to a respective technician based on the vehicle service certification level and an efficiency level of the respective technician for that step.
13. The method of servicing a vehicle of claim 12, comprising: request, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, the first technician to take a picture of a vehicle component; and send, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, the picture to a third technician with a vehicle service certification level to service a pictured vehicle component.
14. The method of servicing a vehicle of claim 13 further comprising the step of receive, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, an input from the third technician to replace the pictured vehicle component.
15. The method of servicing a vehicle of claim 13 further comprising the step of assign, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, the third technician to repair the pictured vehicle component if the first and second technician are not certified for that repair.
16. The method of servicing a vehicle of claim 11 further comprising: request, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, the first technician to take a picture of a vehicle component; send, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, the picture to an owner of the vehicle in order to receive an approval to repair or replace a pictured vehicle component; and receive, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, the approval from the owner to repair or replace the pictured vehicle component.
17. The method of servicing a vehicle of claim 11 further comprising: request, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, the first technician to take a picture of a vehicle component; send, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, the picture to a third technician with a vehicle service certification level qualified to service a pictured vehicle component; and receive, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, a confirmation from the third technician that a repair of the pictured vehicle component was done correctly.
18. The method of servicing a vehicle of claim 11 further comprising the step of display on a remote computing device a current status of the scheduled service procedure.
19. The method of servicing a vehicle of claim 13 wherein the at least one technician interface device comprises a first headset and a second headset each including the microphone, the ear piece, glasses, a camera, and the wireless communication interface, wherein the glasses include the display configured to display information; the method of servicing a vehicle further comprising: receive, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, a vehicle identification information from the first technician; identify, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, the vehicle to the first technician to verify that it is a correct vehicle to perform the scheduled service procedure; and verify, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, through the wireless communication interface on the first headset and the second headset that the first and second technician are located in a correct service bay.
20. The method of servicing a vehicle of claim 11 further comprising: receive, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, a vehicle identification information from the first technician; and identify, via the diagnostic processor of the distributed network, the vehicle to the first technician to verify that it is a correct vehicle to perform the scheduled service procedure.
</claims>
</document>
