<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ABB SCHWEIZ
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARPER, KARL ERIC
Kucheria, Alok
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70285431
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and Method for Securely Training and Using a Model
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for securely training a model comprises including the algorithms of the model into a training module, and communicating the training module from a vendor computer system to a customer computer system. The training module is operated on the customer's computer system using the data from the customer, and a trained training module is achieved after operating the training module on the customer's computer system. The trained training module is used to initialize at least one additional module, which is communicated from the customer's computer system to the vendor's computer system, is used to score observations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for a vendor to facilitate training a model using data from a customer, the model containing algorithms, a training process involving the data from the customer being present in a training infrastructure, the method comprising: including the algorithms of the model into a training module; communicating the training module from a vendor's computer system to a customer's computer system; operating the training module on the customer's computer system using the data from the customer; achieving a trained training module after operating the training module on the customer's computer system; using the trained training module to initialize at least one additional module; communicating the at least one additional module from the customer's computer system to the vendor's computer system; and scoring observations using the at least one additional module.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the trained training module is divided into an input portion and an output portion that are communicatively associated through a divide layer, wherein the observations are input to the input portion, and wherein outputs of the input portion are used as inputs to the at least one additional module, and wherein outputs of the output portion are used to score the observations using at least one second additional module.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising preprocessing the data from the customer before providing the data from the customer to the training module for training.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein preprocessing the data from the customer includes at least one of performing a trend analysis, performing a quality analysis, and normalizing the data from the customer.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein communicating the trained training module is accomplished by encrypted electronic communication between the customer's computer system and the vendor's computer system.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising developing a plurality of training modules, each of the plurality of training modules corresponding to a particular type of asset.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein each of the plurality of training modules corresponds to a particular environment in which an asset is operating, and wherein the data from the customer is generated from the asset operating within each particular environment.
8. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by a processing device in a vendor computer system, cause the processing device to: structure, using the processing device, a model into a training module; communicate with a customer computer system, the customer computer system containing customer data stored in a computer readable form; transmit the training module to the customer computer system for training based on the customer data; transform the training module into a trained training module in customer's computer system and initialize an operational module and an insight module.
9. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the training module includes computer executable instructions that are adapted to be executed by a processing device included within the customer computer system, the computer executable instructions causing the processing device of the customer computer system to: preprocess the customer data; ingest the customer data into the training module to train the model and yield the trained training module; and preserve the training module and the trained training module in an encrypted form.
10. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein preprocessing the customer data includes at least one of performing a trend analysis, performing a quality analysis, and normalizing the customer data.
11. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the trained training module is divided into an input portion and an output portion that are communicatively associated through a divide layer, wherein outputs of the input portion are used to score observations for the operational module, and wherein outputs of the output portion are used to score observations for the insight module.
12. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein receiving the operational and insight modules is accomplished by encrypted electronic communication between the customer's computer system and the vendor computer system.
13. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, further comprising a plurality of models, each of the plurality of models corresponding to a particular type of asset.
14. A system, comprising: a memory to store instructions; a processing device operatively coupled with the memory to execute the instructions stored in the memory, the processing device configured and operating to: structure a model into a training module; communicate with a customer computer system, the customer computer system containing customer data stored in a computer readable form; transmit the training module to the customer computer system for training based on the customer data; extract training results from a trained training module into an operational module and an insight module in the customer computer system; and receive the insight module from the customer computer system to complete the model.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the training module includes computer executable instructions that are adapted to be executed by the processing device included within the customer computer system, the computer executable instructions causing the processing device of the customer computer system to: preprocess the customer data; ingest the customer data into the training module to train the training module and yield the trained training module; and preserve the training module and the trained training module in an encrypted form.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein preprocessing the customer data includes at least one of performing a trend analysis, performing a quality analysis, and normalizing the customer data.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the trained training module is divided into an input portion and an output portion that are communicatively associated through a divide layer, wherein outputs of the input portion are used to score observations for the operational module, and wherein outputs of the output portion are used to score observations for the insight module.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein receiving the trained training module is accomplished by encrypted electronic communication between the customer computer system and the vendor computer system.
19. The system of claim 14, further comprising a plurality of models, each of the plurality of models corresponding to a particular type of asset.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein each of the plurality of models corresponds to a particular environment in which an asset is operating, and wherein the customer data is generated from the asset operating within each particular environment.
</claims>
</document>
