<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S11/04,G01S5/00,G06Q10/02,G06Q50/30,H04W4/02,H04W4/40,H04W64/00,H04W76/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LYFT
</assignee>

<inventors>
Murphy, Conrad Xavier
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72614998
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SHORT RANGE PEER-TO-PEER NAVIGATION
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed computer-implemented method may include determining a wireless identifier associated with a vehicle computing device coupled to a vehicle, transmitting wireless signals for receipt by an antenna included in the vehicle computing device, establishing a wireless connection to the vehicle computing device via one or more of the wireless signals using the wireless identifier, receiving, via the wireless connection, bearing information that indicates a bearing of the vehicle computing device relative to the requestor computing device, the bearing information being based on an angle of arrival of the one or more wireless signals received by the antenna, and displaying information describing a location of the vehicle relative to the requestor computing device based at least in part on the bearing information. Various other methods, systems, and computer-readable media are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining, by a dynamic transportation matching system server, a route from a requestor computing device to a vehicle based at least in part on location information associated with the vehicle and a location of the requestor computing device; determining, by the dynamic transportation matching system server, an angle of arrival of one or more signals transmitted via a short-range wireless connection between the requestor computing device and a vehicle computing device of the vehicle; modifying, by the dynamic transportation matching system server, the route from the requestor computing device to the vehicle based on the angle of arrival of the one or more signals; and providing, by the dynamic transportation matching system server, the modified route to the requestor computing device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the angle of arrival of the one or more signals is relative to an orientation of the vehicle computing device with respect to the requestor computing device, and wherein the method further comprises determining, by the dynamic transportation matching system server, an orientation of the vehicle computing device with respect to the requestor computing device.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining an orientation of the requestor computing device with respect to the vehicle computing device, wherein the modifying the route is further based on the orientation of the requestor computing device with respect to the vehicle computing device.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a first distance between the vehicle and the requestor computing device, in response to determining that the first distance is within a first threshold distance, causing the requestor computing device to establish the short-range wireless connection with the vehicle computing device, wherein the wireless connection is a Bluetooth connection.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: causing the requestor computing device to broadcast a wireless identifier associated with the requestor computing device; and determining that the first distance between the vehicle and the requestor computing device is within the first threshold distance based on an indication that the vehicle computing device has received the wireless identifier broadcasted by the requestor computing device.
6. The method of claim 4, further comprising: in response to establishing the short-range wireless connection, providing, by the requestor computing device, one of a haptic feedback, an audio feedback, or a visual indication.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining whether the requestor computing device is within a second threshold distance from the vehicle computing device; and in response to determining that the requestor computing device is within the second threshold distance from the vehicle computing device, providing, on the requestor computing device, an indication that a user associated with the requestor computing device has arrived at a location of the vehicle.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a strength of a signal received by the requestor computing device or the vehicle computing device via the short-range wireless connection; and determining that the requestor computing device is approaching the vehicle based at least in part on the strength of the signal.
9. A system comprising one or more physical processors and one or more memories coupled to one or more of the physical processors, the one or more memories comprising instructions operable when executed by the one or more physical processors to cause the system to perform operations comprising: determining a route from a requestor computing device to a vehicle based on location information associated with the vehicle and a location of the requestor computing device; determining angle of arrival data associated with one or more wireless signals transmitted via a wireless connection between the requestor computing device and a vehicle computing device of the vehicle; modifying the route from the requestor computing device to the vehicle based on the angle of arrival data; and providing the modified route to the requestor computing device;
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the vehicle computing device comprises an array of computer-controlled antennas electronically scanned to create a beam of radio waves that are steered to point in different directions, the steering enabling the array of computer-controlled antennas to receive signals via the wireless connection.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: subsequent to providing the modified route to the requestor computing device, determining a first distance between the vehicle computing device and the requestor computing device; determining whether the first distance is within a first distance threshold; and in response to determining that the first distance is within the first distance threshold, providing, on the requestor computing device, an indication that a user associated with the requestor computing device has arrived at a location of the vehicle.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the angle of arrival data associated with the one or more wireless signals is relative to an orientation of the vehicle computing device with respect to the requestor computing device; and wherein the operations further comprise determining an orientation of the vehicle computing device with respect to the requestor computing device.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise causing the requestor computing device to present a direction of travel from the requestor computing device to the vehicle based on the modified route.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: detecting that the wireless connection has been established between the requestor computing device and the vehicle computing device; and in response to detecting that the wireless connection has been established, causing the requestor computing device to provide at least one of a haptic indication, an audio indication, or a visual indication.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: determining an orientation of the requestor computing device with respect to the vehicle computing device, wherein the modifying the route is further based on the orientation of the requestor computing device with respect to the vehicle computing device.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the wireless connection is a WiFi connection.
17. The system of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: causing the requestor computing device to broadcast a wireless identifier associated with the requestor computing device; detecting an indication that the vehicle computing device has received the wireless identifier broadcasted by the requestor computing device; and causing the requestor computing device to establish the wireless connection with the vehicle computing device in response to detecting the indication.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising computer-readable instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a vehicle computing device, cause the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: detecting that a requestor computing device is within a distance threshold from a vehicle based on a wireless identifier broadcasted by the requestor computing device; in response to detecting that the requestor computing device is within the distance threshold from the vehicle, establishing a wireless connection with a requestor computing device based on the wireless identifier; determining angle of arrival data associated with one or more signals received from the requestor computing device via the wireless connection; and transmitting the angle of arrival data to the requestor computing device via the wireless connection, wherein the transmitting the angle of arrival data causes the requestor computing device to modify a route from the requestor computing device to the vehicle based on the angle of arrival data.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the vehicle computing device comprises an array of computer-controlled antennas electronically scanned to create a beam of radio waves that are steered to point in different directions, the steering enabling the array of computer-controlled antennas to receive the one or more signals via the wireless connection.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise determining an orientation of the vehicle computing device with respect to the requestor computing device, wherein the angle of arrival data is determined further based on the orientation of the vehicle computing device with respect to the requestor computing device.
</claims>
</document>
