<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G09B5/00,H04L12/911,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG YONGZHENG
YANG, LI
HUANG, SHEN
YANG, KAIYU
Sanford, Clayton
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72605028
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USING OUTCOME-TARGETED GAP PREDICTIONS TO IDENTIFY A DIGITAL RESOURCE
</title>

<abstract>
An embodiment of the disclosed technologies includes extracting, from an online connection network, digital data comprising target profile data and current profile data; where the target profile data is associated with an online submission process that has a plurality of possible outcomes and is executable via the online connection network; where the current profile data is associated with a member node of the online connection network; using an active learning process, in response to the current profile data, identifying attribute data that is in the target profile data but is not in the current profile data and is predicted to have a relationship with a positive outcome of the online submission process; outputting the attribute data for use by a downstream process or an automated digital assistant to determine a digital resource to associate with the member node through the online connection network or through an online learning system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: extracting, from an online connection network, digital data comprising target profile data and current profile data; wherein the target profile data is associated with an online submission process that has a plurality of possible outcomes and is executable via the online connection network; wherein the current profile data is associated with a member node of the online connection network; using an active learning process, in response to the current profile data, identifying attribute data that is in the target profile data but is not in the current profile data and is predicted to have a relationship with a positive outcome of the online submission process; outputting the attribute data for use by a downstream process or an automated digital assistant to determine a digital resource to associate with the member node through the online connection network or through an online learning system; wherein the method is performed by one or more computing devices.
2. The method of claim 1, comprising, in response to the target profile data, via a model that indicates learned relationships between profile data and outcomes of online submission processes, outputting boundary data that differentiates profile data associated with positive outcomes of online submission processes similar to the online submission process from profile data associated with non-positive outcomes of online submission processes similar to the online submission process.
3. The method of claim 2, comprising determining minimum gap data by computing a distance representative of a similarity between the current profile data and the boundary data.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein using the active learning process comprises, for a subset of the profile data associated with positive outcomes of online submission processes, computing a dot product of the subset and the minimum gap data.
5. The method of claim 4, comprising identifying the attribute data by computing the dot product for a plurality of different subsets of the profile data associated with positive outcomes of online submission processes and selecting the attribute data from a particular subset of the profile data associated with positive outcomes of online submission processes that has a largest dot product of the computed dot products.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the digital resource comprises one or more of: a digital connection invitation relating to a particular other member node of the online connection network, digital video content of the online learning system, a digital communication relating to a virtual classroom, or an output of a chatbot.
7. The method of claim 1, comprising inputting the attribute data and activity data extracted from the online learning system to a machine-learned model, and using the machine-learned model, associating the member node with a virtual classroom.
8. The method of claim 1, comprising inputting the attribute data and activity data extracted from the online learning system to a machine-learned model, and using the machine-learned model, associating a particular segment of video content of the online learning system with the member node.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the attribute data is provided to a chatbot that uses a federated local chaining process including a local model and a server model to generate and output personalized online learning recommendation data within a real-time time interval in response to a receiving of a member input by the chatbot.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein: the active learning process uses a machine-learned model that is created by inputting aggregated skills data to a machine learning process; the aggregated skills data identifies: skills data that is associated with a positive outcome of the plurality of possible outcomes of the online submission process; skills data that is associated with a non-positive outcome of the plurality of possible outcomes of the online submission process.
11. A computer program product comprising one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media comprising instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause: extracting, from an online connection network, digital data comprising target profile data and current profile data; wherein the target profile data is associated with an online submission process that has a plurality of possible outcomes and is executable via the online connection network; wherein the current profile data is associated with a member node of the online connection network; using an active learning process, in response to the current profile data, identifying attribute data that is in the target profile data but is not in the current profile data and is predicted to have a relationship with a positive outcome of the online submission process; outputting the attribute data for use by a downstream process or an automated digital assistant to determine a digital resource to associate with the member node through the online connection network or through an online learning system.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the instructions further cause, in response to the target profile data, via a model that indicates learned relationships between profile data and outcomes of online submission processes, outputting boundary data that differentiates profile data associated with positive outcomes of online submission processes similar to the online submission process from profile data associated with non-positive outcomes of online submission processes similar to the online submission process.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the instructions further cause determining minimum gap data by computing a distance representative of a similarity between the current profile data and the boundary data.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein using the active learning process comprises, for a subset of the profile data associated with positive outcomes of online submission processes, computing a dot product of the subset and the minimum gap data.
15. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the instructions further cause identifying the attribute data by computing the dot product for a plurality of different subsets of the profile data associated with positive outcomes of online submission processes and selecting the attribute data from a particular subset of the profile data associated with positive outcomes of online submission processes that has a largest dot product of the computed dot products.
16. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the digital resource comprises one or more of: a digital connection invitation relating to a particular other member node of the online connection network, digital video content of the online learning system, a digital communication relating to a virtual classroom, or an output of a chatbot.
17. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the instructions further cause inputting the attribute data and activity data extracted from the online learning system to a machine-learned model, and in response to the machine learning process, associating the member node with a virtual classroom.
18. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the instructions further cause inputting the attribute data and activity data extracted from the online learning system to a machine-learned model, and using the machine-learned model, associating a particular segment of video content of the online learning system with the member node.
19. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the attribute data is provided to a chatbot that uses a federated local chaining process including a local model and a server model to generate and output personalized online learning recommendation data within a real-time time interval in response to a receiving of a member input by the chatbot.
20. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein: the active learning process uses a machine-learned model that is created by inputting aggregated skills data to a machine learning process; the aggregated skills data identifies: skills data that is associated with a positive outcome of the plurality of possible outcomes of the online submission process; skills data that is associated with a non-positive outcome of the plurality of possible outcomes of the online submission process.
</claims>
</document>
