<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S17/10,G01S17/42,G01S17/89,G01S17/931,G01S7/483,G01S7/484,G01S7/4865
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WAYMO
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHAND, MARK ALEXANDER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64738048
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) Device Range Aliasing Resilience by Multiple Hypotheses
</title>

<abstract>
A computing system may operate a LIDAR device to emit light pulses in accordance with a time sequence including a time-varying dither. The system may then determine that the LIDAR detected return light pulses during corresponding detection periods for each of two or more emitted light pulses. Responsively, the system may determine that the detected return light pulses have (i) detection times relative to corresponding emission times of a plurality of first emitted light pulses that are indicative of a first set of ranges and (ii) detection times relative to corresponding emission times of a plurality of second emitted light pulses that are indicative of a second set of ranges. Given this, the system may select between using the first set of ranges as a basis for object detection and using the second set of ranges as a basis for object detection, and may then engage in object detection accordingly.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20: (canceled)
21. A method comprising: operating a Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) device coupled to a vehicle to emit light pulses at emission times in accordance with an emission time sequence, wherein the emission time sequence includes a time-varying dither, and to detect return light pulses during corresponding detection periods, wherein each emitted light pulse is associated with a corresponding detection period; detecting, using the LIDAR device, a plurality of return light pulses, wherein each return light pulse is detected at a respective detection time in a respective detection period; determining a first set of ranges based on the detection times of the return light pulses relative to emission times of emitted light pulses associated with the detection periods in which the return light pulses were detected; determining a second set of ranges based on the detection times of the return light pulses relative to emission times of emitted light pulses associated with detection periods preceding the detection periods in which the return light pulses were detected; selecting between the first set of ranges and the second set of ranges for determining a representation of an environment of the vehicle, wherein the selecting is based on at least one of a similarity of ranges in the first set of ranges or a similarity of ranges in the second set of ranges; and operating the vehicle based on the representation of the environment of the vehicle.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein selecting between the first set of ranges and the second set of ranges comprises: making a determination that the ranges in the first set of ranges are similar to one another; and selecting the first set of ranges for determining the representation of the environment of the vehicle based on the determination that the ranges in the first set of ranges are similar to one another.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the determination that the ranges in the first set of ranges are similar to one another comprises determining that the ranges in the first set of ranges are within a threshold tolerance.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein the determination that the ranges in the first set of ranges are similar to one another comprises determining that a difference between a smallest range and a greatest range in the first set of ranges does not exceed a threshold difference.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein selecting between the first set of ranges and the second set of ranges comprises: making a determination that the ranges in the second set of ranges are similar to one another; and selecting the second set of ranges for determining the representation of the environment of the vehicle based on the determination that the ranges in the second set of ranges are similar to one another.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the determination that the ranges in the second set of ranges are similar to one another comprises determining that the ranges in the second set of ranges are within a threshold tolerance.
27. The method of claim 25, wherein the determination that the ranges in the second set of ranges are similar to one another comprises determining that a difference between a smallest range and a greatest range in the second set of ranges does not exceed a threshold difference.
28. The method of claim 21, wherein selecting between the first set of ranges and the second set of ranges comprises: making a determination that the ranges in the first set of ranges are similar to one another; making a determination that the ranges in the second set of ranges are not similar to one another; and selecting the first set of ranges for determining the representation of the environment of the vehicle based on the determination that the ranges in the first set of ranges are similar to one another and the determination that the ranges in the second set of ranges are not similar to one another.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the determination that the ranges in the first set of ranges are similar to one another comprises determining that the ranges in the first set of ranges are within a threshold tolerance and the determination that the ranges in the second set of ranges are not similar to one another comprises determining that the ranges in the second set of ranges are not within the threshold tolerance.
30. The method of claim 28, wherein the determination that the ranges in the first set of ranges are similar to one another comprises determining that a difference between a smallest range and a greatest range in the first set of ranges does not exceed a threshold difference and the determination that the ranges in second set of ranges are not similar to one another comprises determining that a difference between a smallest range and a greatest range in the second set of ranges exceeds the threshold difference.
31. The method of claim 21, wherein selecting between the first set of ranges and the second set of ranges comprises: making a determination that the ranges in the first set of ranges are not similar to one another; making a determination that the ranges in the second set of ranges are similar to one another; and selecting the second set of ranges for determining the representation of the environment of the vehicle based on the determination that the ranges in the first set of ranges are not similar to one another and the determination that the ranges in the second set of ranges are similar to one another.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein the determination that the ranges in the first set of ranges are not similar to one another comprises determining that the ranges in the first set of ranges are not within a threshold tolerance and the determination that the ranges in the second set of ranges are similar to one another comprises determining that the ranges in the second set of ranges are within the threshold tolerance.
33. The method of claim 31, wherein the determination that the ranges in the first set of ranges are not similar to one another comprises determining that a difference between a smallest range and a greatest range in the first set of ranges exceeds a threshold difference and the determination that the ranges in second set of ranges are similar to one another comprises determining that a difference between a smallest range and a greatest range in the second set of ranges does not exceed the threshold difference.
34. The method of claim 21, wherein selecting between the first set of ranges and the second set of ranges comprises: making a determination that the ranges in the first set of ranges are more similar to one another compared to similarity of the ranges in the second set of ranges; and selecting the first set of ranges for determining the representation of the environment of the vehicle based on the determination that the ranges in the first set of ranges are more similar to one another compared to similarity of the ranges in the second set of ranges.
35. The method of claim 21, wherein selecting between the first set of ranges and the second set of ranges comprises: making a determination that the ranges in the second set of ranges are more similar to one another compared to similarity of the ranges in the first set of ranges; and selecting the second set of ranges for determining the representation of the environment of the vehicle based on the determination that the ranges in the second set of ranges are more similar to one another compared to similarity of the ranges in the first set of ranges.
36. A method for operating an autonomous vehicle system comprising: emitting, from a Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) device, light pulses in accordance with an emission time sequence; receiving a plurality of return light pulses; and associating a range with the plurality of return light pulses based on a similarity between the return light pulses.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein the emission time sequence includes a time-varying dither.
38. The method of claim 36, wherein associating a range with the plurality of return light pulses based on a similarity between the return light pulses comprises: identifying two or more ranges for each return light pulse in the plurality of return light pulses.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein identifying two or more ranges for each return light pulse comprises: identifying a first range for each return light pulse based on a first detection period; and identifying a second range for each return light pulse based on a second detection period, wherein the similarity is between ranges identified based on the second detection period.
40. A computing system comprising: one or more processors; a non-transitory computer readable medium; and program instructions stored on the non-transitory computer readable medium and executable by the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: operating a Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) device coupled to a vehicle to emit light pulses at emission times in accordance with an emission time sequence, wherein the emission time sequence includes a time-varying dither, and to detect return light pulses during corresponding detection periods, wherein each emitted light pulse is associated with a corresponding detection period; detecting, using the LIDAR device, a plurality of return light pulses, wherein each return light pulse is detected at a respective detection time in a respective detection period; determining a first set of ranges based on the detection times of the return light pulses relative to emission times of emitted light pulses associated with the detection periods in which the return light pulses were detected; determining a second set of ranges based on the detection times of the return light pulses relative to emission times of emitted light pulses associated with detection periods preceding the detection periods in which the return light pulses were detected; selecting between the first set of ranges and the second set of ranges for determining a representation of an environment of the vehicle, wherein the selecting is based on at least one of a similarity of ranges in the first set of ranges or a similarity of ranges in the second set of ranges, and wherein the representation of the environment of the vehicle comprises a three-dimensional (3D) point cloud; and operating the vehicle based on the representation of the environment of the vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
