<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/31,G06N20/00,G06N3/04,G06Q30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CLARI
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAJU, Balasubramaniam
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73016587
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR CAPTURING AND STORING CONTACT INFORMATION FROM A PHYSICAL MEDIUM USING MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein are systems and methods for facilitating the information entry and task updates to a task database in a cloud server. The task database is in synchronization with a customer relationship management (CRM) system. The systems and methods described herein enable users to update the task database and enter information into the task database in a timely manner such that the task database can stay updated. The updated database can be used to construct a suggested task set at the beginning of a period of time to meet a preset target sales value for the end of the period of time. In one embodiment, a system includes a mobile application to capture contact information from a physical medium as an image, and to send the image to a cloud server, where a trained neural network model is to extract contact details and send the contact details back to the mobile application for editing and confirmation by a user. The confirmed contact details can then be persisted into the task database as a new task, part of a new task, or part of an existing task.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of updating data entries of a database system, the method comprising: receiving, at a cloud server, an image from a mobile device over a network, wherein the image was taken using a camera of the mobile device capturing an exterior surface of a physical medium; applying one or more neutral network models to the image to recognize, extract, and categorize content data representing content information printed on the exterior surface of the physical medium according to a predetermined category list; transmitting the content data to the mobile device over the network to be displayed by a mobile application running on the mobile device for editing and confirmation by a user; and in response to a confirmation received from the mobile application of the mobile device, updating one or more data entries of a database hosted by a database management system based on the content data, without requiring the user to separately access the database for updating the one or more data entries.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the physical medium comprises a contact information card, and wherein the content data includes contact information of another user associated with the contact information card.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the confirmation received from the mobile application includes modified content data modified by the user in response to the transmitted content data, and wherein the one or more data entries are updated based on the modified content data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein updating one or more data entries of a database comprises: accessing the database and authenticating the user based on a device identifier (ID) of the mobile device; in response to successfully authenticating the user, identifying the one or more data entries based on a category associated with the content data categorized according to the predetermined category list; and modifying one or more fields of the identified data entries based on the content data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein applying one or more neutral network models to the image to recognize, extract, and categorize content data comprises: extracting a set of features from the image; performing an image recognition process on the set of features to recognize a layout of the image; performing a natural language process (NLP) on the set of features to recognize and extract text information from the image, wherein the content data includes at least the text information.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the category list includes a name, an address, one or more phone numbers, a web address, an email address, a tagline or description of service, and QR code.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more neural network models include a convolutional neural network (CNN) and a short-term memory (LSTM) network; wherein the neutral networks are trained using Word2Vec training data to recognize characters in the image and construct appropriate words using natural language processing; wherein the one or more neutral network models are further trained to match the extracted contact information to one or more categories of the category list.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more neural network models are deployed on a machine learning server in the cloud server.
9. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium having instructions stored therein, which when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving, at a cloud server, an image from a mobile device over a network, wherein the image was taken using a camera of the mobile device capturing an exterior surface of a physical medium; applying one or more neutral network models to the image to recognize, extract, and categorize content data representing content information printed on the exterior surface of the physical medium according to a predetermined category list; transmitting the content data to the mobile device over the network to be displayed by a mobile application running on the mobile device for editing and confirmation by a user; and in response to a confirmation received from the mobile application of the mobile device, updating one or more data entries of a database hosted by a database management system based on the content data, without requiring the user to separately access the database for updating the one or more data entries.
10. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the physical medium comprises a contact information card, and wherein the content data includes contact information of another user associated with the contact information card.
11. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the confirmation received from the mobile application includes modified content data modified by the user in response to the transmitted content data, and wherein the one or more data entries are updated based on the modified content data.
12. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein updating one or more data entries of a database comprises: accessing the database and authenticating the user based on a device identifier (ID) of the mobile device; in response to successfully authenticating the user, identifying the one or more data entries based on a category associated with the content data categorized according to the predetermined category list; and modifying one or more fields of the identified data entries based on the content data.
13. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein applying one or more neutral network models to the image to recognize, extract, and categorize content data comprises: extracting a set of features from the image; performing an image recognition process on the set of features to recognize a layout of the image; performing a natural language process (NLP) on the set of features to recognize and extract text information from the image, wherein the content data includes at least the text information.
14. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the category list includes a name, an address, one or more phone numbers, a web address, an email address, a tagline or description of service, and QR code.
15. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the one or more neural network models include a convolutional neural network (CNN) and a short-term memory (LSTM) network; wherein the neutral networks are trained using Word2Vec training data to recognize characters in the image and construct appropriate words using natural language processing; wherein the one or more neutral network models are further trained to match the extracted contact information to one or more categories of the category list.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more neural network models are deployed on a machine learning server in the cloud server.
17. A data processing system, the system comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor to store instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations including receiving, at a cloud server, an image from a mobile device over a network, wherein the image was taken using a camera of the mobile device capturing an exterior surface of a physical medium; applying one or more neutral network models to the image to recognize, extract, and categorize content data representing content information printed on the exterior surface of the physical medium according to a predetermined category list; transmitting the content data to the mobile device over the network to be displayed by a mobile application running on the mobile device for editing and confirmation by a user; and in response to a confirmation received from the mobile application of the mobile device, updating one or more data entries of a database hosted by a database management system based on the content data, without requiring the user to separately access the database for updating the one or more data entries.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the physical medium comprises a contact information card, and wherein the content data includes contact information of another user associated with the contact information card.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the confirmation received from the mobile application includes modified content data modified by the user in response to the transmitted content data, and wherein the one or more data entries are updated based on the modified content data.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein updating one or more data entries of a database comprises: accessing the database and authenticating the user based on a device identifier (ID) of the mobile device; in response to successfully authenticating the user, identifying the one or more data entries based on a category associated with the content data categorized according to the predetermined category list; and modifying one or more fields of the identified data entries based on the content data.
</claims>
</document>
