<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S19/48,G06F30/13,G06Q99/00,G06T17/05,G06T19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MIDDLE CHART
</assignee>

<inventors>
DUFF, JASON E.
FLITSCH, FRED
PUGH, RANDALL
SANTARONE, MICHAEL S.
WODRICH, MICHAEL A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514508
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ENHANCED POSITION AND ORIENTATION DETERMINATION
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus and methods for enhanced wireless determination of a position and direction of a smart device. Wireless transceivers controlled by the smart device communicate with reference point transceivers to generate data sufficient to determine relative positions of the wireless transceivers and a direction of interest. Operation of one or both of a magnetic force sensor and LIDAR may be operative to verify the position and direction of the Smart Device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Method for determining an orientation of a smart device relative to a structure, the method comprising the steps of: a) supporting a first transceiver and a second transceiver via an agent at a first geospatial position; b) generating respective logical communications between the first transceiver and each of a first set of three reference point transceivers, the three reference point transceivers fixedly positioned at disparate points in the structure; c) with a controller, determining X, Y and Z coordinates of the first transceiver based upon the respective logical communications between the first transceiver and each of a first set of three reference point transceivers; d) generating respective logical communications between the second transceiver and each of a second set of three reference point transceivers; e) with a controller, determining X, Y and Z coordinates of the second transceiver based upon the respective logical communications between the first transceiver and each of a first set of three reference point transceivers; f) generating a first quantification of a magnetic field encompassing the smart device with a magnetic field sensor; g) generating a location of the smart device based upon at least one of: X, Y and Z coordinates of the first transceiver, and the X, Y and Z coordinates of the second transceiver; h) generating a first direction of interest based upon at least two of: the X, Y and Z coordinates of the first transceiver, the X, Y and Z coordinates of the second transceiver, and the quantification of the magnetic field encompassing the smart device; i) accessing data associated with the location of the smart device and the first direction of interest; and j) generating a user interface on the smart device, the user interface comprising the data associated with the location of the smart device.
2. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising the steps of: reorienting the smart device; generating a second quantification of the magnetic field encompassing the smart device; and generating a second direction of interest based upon the second quantification of the magnetic field relative to the smart device.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the magnetic field sensor comprises a Hall Effect sensor.
4. The method of claim 2 wherein one of the first transceiver and the second transceiver comprises a smart watch.
5. The method of claim 2 wherein one of the first transceiver and the second transceiver comprises a smart ring.
6. The method of claim 2 additionally comprising the steps of: reorienting the smart device; generating a topographical representation of at least a portion of an environment within an area capable of wireless communication the smart device and generating a second direction of interest based upon the topographical representation.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the smart pointer comprises both the first transceiver and the second transceiver.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the first set of three reference point transceivers comprises a multi-modality transceiver capable of transceiving in multiple frequency bandwidths.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein the multiple frequency bandwidths comprise bandwidths associated with two or more of: WiFi, Bluetooth, Ultra Wideband, infrared and ultrasonic modalities.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein the direction of interest is at an angle perpendicular to a screen on the smart device.
11. Apparatus for determining an orientation relative to a structure, the apparatus comprising: a) a controller comprising a processor and a digital storage, said controller in logical communication with a user interface display; b) a first transceiver supportable by an Agent at a first geospatial position and in logical communication with the controller; c) and a second transceiver supportable by an Agent at the first geospatial position and in logical communication with the controller; d) a magnetic field sensor in logical communication with the controller; and e) executable code stored on the digital storage and executable by the processor to cause the controller to: f) generate respective logical communications between the first transceiver and each of a first set of three reference point transceivers, the three reference point transceivers fixedly positioned at disparate points in the structure; g) determine X, Y and Z coordinates of the first transceiver based upon the respective logical communications between the first transceiver and each of a first set of three reference point transceivers; h) generate respective logical communications between the second transceiver and each of a second set of three reference point transceivers; i) determine X, Y and Z coordinates of the second transceiver based upon the respective logical communications between the first transceiver and each of a first set of three reference point transceivers; j) generate a first quantification of a magnetic field encompassing the smart device with a magnetic field sensor; k) generate a location of the smart device based upon at least one of: X, Y and Z coordinates of the first transceiver, and the X, Y and Z coordinates of the second transceiver; l) generate a first direction of interest based upon at least two of: the X, Y and Z coordinates of the first transceiver, the X, Y and Z coordinates of the second transceiver, and the quantification of the magnetic field encompassing the smart device; k) access data associated with the location of the smart device and the first direction of interest; and l) generate a user interface on the smart device, the user interface comprising the data associated with the location of the smart device.
12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the executable code stored on the digital storage and executable by the processor additionally causes the controller to generate a second quantification of the magnetic field encompassing the smart device following a reorientation of the smart device; and generate a second direction of interest based upon the second quantification of the magnetic field relative to the smart device.
13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the magnetic field sensor comprises a Hall Effect sensor.
14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein one of the first transceiver and the second transceiver comprises a smart watch.
15. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein one of the first transceiver and the second transceiver comprises a smart ring.
16. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the executable code stored on the digital storage and executable by the processor additionally causes the controller to reorient the smart device; generate a topographical representation of at least a portion of an environment within an area capable of wireless communication the smart device and generate a second direction of interest based upon the topographical representation.
17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the smart pointer comprises both the first transceiver and the second transceiver.
18. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein at least one of the first set of three reference point transceivers comprises a multi-modality transceiver capable of transceiving in multiple frequency bandwidths.
19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the multiple frequency bandwidths comprise bandwidths associated with two or more of: WiFi, Bluetooth, Ultra Wideband, infrared and ultrasonic modalities.
20. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the direction of interest is at an angle perpendicular to a screen on the smart device.
</claims>
</document>
