<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/06,G11C16/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHISON ELECTRONICS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIN WEI
HSU, YU-CHENG
YANG, YU-SIANG
LIN, HSIAO-YI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73551499
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEMORY CONTROL METHOD, MEMORY STORAGE DEVICE AND MEMORY CONTROL CIRCUIT UNIT
</title>

<abstract>
A memory control method, a memory storage device and a memory control circuit unit are provided. The method includes: reading a first physical unit among a plurality of physical units based on a first electrical configuration to obtain first soft information; reading the first physical unit based on a second electrical configuration which is different from the first electrical configuration to obtain second soft information; classifying a plurality of memory cells in the first physical unit according to the first soft information and the second soft information; and decoding data read from the first physical unit according to a classification result of the memory cells.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A memory control method for a rewritable non-volatile memory module, wherein the rewritable non-volatile memory module comprises a plurality of physical units, and the memory control method comprises: reading a first physical unit among the physical units based on a first electrical configuration to obtain first soft information; reading the first physical unit based on a second electrical configuration to obtain second soft information, wherein the first electrical configuration is different from the second electrical configuration; classifying a plurality of memory cells in the first physical unit according to the first soft information and the second soft information; and decoding data read from the first physical unit according to a classification result of the memory cells.
2. The memory control method according to claim 1, wherein a step of reading the first physical unit among the physical units based on the first electrical configuration to obtain the first soft information comprises: reading the first physical unit by using a plurality of first read voltage levels corresponding to the first electrical configuration to obtain the first soft information, and a step of reading the first physical unit based on the second electrical configuration to obtain the second soft information comprises: reading the first physical unit by using a plurality of second read voltage levels corresponding to the second electrical configuration to obtain the second soft information.
3. The memory control method according to claim 1, wherein a step of classifying the memory cells in the first physical unit according to the first soft information and the second soft information comprises: classifying a first memory cell among the memory cells into a first-type memory cell or a second-type memory cell according to the first soft information and the second soft information, wherein a sensitivity of the first-type memory cell to a change of an electrical parameter is different from a sensitivity of the second-type memory cell to the change of the electrical parameter.
4. The memory control method according to claim 1, wherein a step of classifying the memory cells in the first physical unit according to the first soft information and the second soft information comprises: obtaining a relative voltage position of a first memory cell among the memory cells in a plurality of threshold voltage distributions according to the first soft information and the second soft information; and classifying the first memory cell according to the relative voltage position of the first memory cell in the threshold voltage distributions.
5. The memory control method according to claim 1, wherein a step of decoding the data read from the first physical unit according to the classification result of the memory cells comprises: determining first reliability information corresponding to a first memory cell among the memory cells according to a classification result of the first memory cell; and decoding data read form the first memory cell according to the first reliability information.
6. The memory control method according to claim 1, wherein a current value of a first read current used based on the first electrical configuration is different from a current value of a second read current used based on the second electrical configuration.
7. The memory control method according to claim 1, wherein the classification result of the memory cells at least reflects a sensitivity of a first memory cell among the memory cells to a change of an electrical parameter.
8. The memory control method according to claim 7, wherein the change of the electrical parameter comprises a change of a read current.
9. A memory storage device, comprising: a connection interface unit, configured to couple to a host system; a rewritable non-volatile memory module, wherein the rewritable non-volatile memory module comprises a plurality of physical units; and a memory control circuit unit, coupled to the connection interface unit and the rewritable non-volatile memory module, wherein the memory control circuit unit is configured to send a first read command sequence which instructs a reading of a first physical unit among the physical units based on a first electrical configuration to obtain first soft information, the memory control circuit unit is further configured to send a second read command sequence which instructs a reading of the first physical unit based on a second electrical configuration to obtain second soft information, wherein the first electrical configuration is different from the second electrical configuration, the memory control circuit unit is further configured to classify a plurality of memory cells in the first physical unit according to the first soft information and the second soft information, and the memory control circuit unit is further configured to decode data read from the first physical unit according to a classification result of the memory cells.
10. The memory storage device according to claim 9, wherein the first read command sequence instructs a reading of the first physical unit by using a plurality of first read voltage levels corresponding to the first electrical configuration to obtain the first soft information, and the second read command sequence instructs a reading of the first physical unit by using a plurality of second read voltage levels corresponding to the second electrical configuration to obtain the second soft information.
11. The memory storage device according to claim 9, wherein an operation of classifying the memory cells in the first physical unit according to the first soft information and the second soft information by the memory control circuit unit comprises: classifying a first memory cell among the memory cells into a first-type memory cell or a second-type memory cell according to the first soft information and the second soft information, wherein a sensitivity of the first-type memory cell to a change of an electrical parameter is different from a sensitivity of the second-type memory cell to the change of the electrical parameter.
12. The memory storage device according to claim 9, wherein an operation of classifying the memory cells in the first physical unit according to the first soft information and the second soft information by the memory control circuit unit comprises: obtaining a relative voltage position of a first memory cell among the memory cells in a plurality of threshold voltage distributions according to the first soft information and the second soft information; and classifying the first memory cell according to the relative voltage position of the first memory cell in the threshold voltage distributions.
13. The memory storage device according to claim 9, wherein an operation of decoding the data read from the first physical unit according to the classification result of the memory cells by the memory control circuit unit comprises: determining first reliability information corresponding to a first memory cell among the memory cells according to a classification result of the first memory cell; and decoding data read form the first memory cell according to the first reliability information.
14. The memory storage device according to claim 9, wherein a current value of a first read current used based on the first electrical configuration is different from a current value of a second read current used based on the second electrical configuration.
15. The memory storage device according to claim 9, wherein the classification result of the memory cells at least reflects a sensitivity of a first memory cell among the memory cells to a change of an electrical parameter.
16. The memory storage device according to claim 15, wherein the change of the electrical parameter comprises a change of a read current.
17. A memory control circuit unit for controlling a rewritable non-volatile memory module, wherein the rewritable non-volatile memory module comprises a plurality of physical units, and the memory control circuit unit comprises: a host interface, configured to couple to a host system, a memory interface, configured to couple to the rewritable non-volatile memory module; an error checking and correcting circuit; and a memory management circuit, coupled to the host interface, the memory interface and the error checking and correcting circuit, wherein the memory management circuit is configured to send a first read command sequence which instructs a reading of a first physical unit among the physical units based on a first electrical configuration to obtain first soft information, the memory management circuit is further configured to send a second read command sequence which instructs a reading of the first physical unit based on a second electrical configuration to obtain second soft information, wherein the first electrical configuration is different from the second electrical configuration, the memory management circuit is further configured to classify a plurality of memory cells in the first physical unit according to the first soft information and the second soft information, and the error checking and correcting circuit is configured to decode data read from the first physical unit according to a classification result of the memory cells.
18. The memory control circuit unit according to claim 17, wherein the first read command sequence instructs a reading of the first physical unit by using a plurality of first read voltage levels corresponding to the first electrical configuration to obtain the first soft information, and the second read command sequence instructs a reading of the first physical unit by using a plurality of second read voltage levels corresponding to the second electrical configuration to obtain the second soft information.
19. The memory control circuit unit according to claim 17, wherein an operation of classifying the memory cells in the first physical unit according to the first soft information and the second soft information by the memory management circuit comprise: classifying a first memory cell among the memory cells into a first-type memory cell or a second-type memory cell according to the first soft information and the second soft information, wherein a sensitivity of the first-type memory cell to a change of an electrical parameter is different from a sensitivity of the second-type memory cell to the change of the electrical parameter.
20. The memory control circuit unit according to claim 17, wherein an operation of classifying the memory cells in the first physical unit according to the first soft information and the second soft information by the memory management circuit comprise: obtaining a relative voltage position of a first memory cell among the memory cells in a plurality of threshold voltage distributions according to the first soft information and the second soft information; and classifying the first memory cell according to the relative voltage position of the first memory cell in the threshold voltage distributions.
21. The memory control circuit unit according to claim 17, wherein an operation of decoding the data read from the first physical unit according to the classification result of the memory cells by the error checking and correcting circuit comprises: determining first reliability information corresponding to a first memory cell among the memory cells according to a classification result of the first memory cell; and decoding data read form the first memory cell according to the first reliability information.
22. The memory control circuit unit according to claim 17, wherein a current value of a first read current used based on the first electrical configuration is different from a current value of a second read current used based on the second electrical configuration.
23. The memory control circuit unit according to claim 17, wherein the classification result of the memory cells at least reflects a sensitivity of a first memory cell among the memory cells to a change of an electrical parameter.
24. The memory control circuit unit according to claim 23, wherein the change of the electrical parameter comprises a change of a read current.
</claims>
</document>
