<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/418,G06F17/16,G06F17/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AVEVA SOFTWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CLINTON, GREG C.
KAMATH, VINAY T.
MANUSHREE, ABHIJIT
ERICKSON, BRIAN KENNETH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69405965
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SERVER AND SYSTEM FOR AUTOMATIC SELECTION OF TAGS FOR MODELING AND ANOMALY DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
A server system can operate to function as an automatic association of tags defining a system within a process. The operations include accessing tags and associated signals including a plurality of data values over time indicative of a physical property, behavior or measurement of a component of the process. For each signal, calculating a time-weighted average over a specific time period, selecting a specific number of different day periods sampled from the tags and signals, and for each tag, calculating a slope and intercept by calculating a linear regression of plurality of signals over the specific time period. Further, calculating a residual value of each data value of the signals over the specific time period, and calculating a normalized value of each residual value, and then calculating the absolute value of the dot product of the normalized residual value and the residual value of a subsequent number of tags.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: providing a server system including at least one processor; providing at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium in data communication with the at least one processor, the at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including program logic that when executed by the at least one processor, causes the server system to operate to function as an automatic association of tags defining a system within a process by: accessing a plurality of tags and associated plurality of signals comprising a plurality of data values over time indicative of a physical property, behavior or measurement of a component of the process; and for each signal of the plurality of signals, calculating a time-weighted average over a specific time period; for each signal, selecting a specific number of different day periods sampled from the plurality of tags and associated plurality of signals; for each tag of the plurality of tags, calculating a slope and intercept by calculating a linear regression of plurality of signals over the specific time period; calculating a residual value of each data value of the plurality of signals over the specific time period by subtracting an expected value calculated from the linear regression from the actual value of each data value of plurality of signals over the specific time period; calculating a normalized value of each residual value by subtracting its mean from all of its samples and dividing each sample by its residual standard deviation; calculating the absolute value of the dot product of the normalized residual value and the residual value of a following number of tags of the plurality of tags; assigning the smallest of the dot products calculated for each specific time period as a score; and recording a top number of scores and associated tag names so that each tag includes the top number of most closely associated tags and scores.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the specific time period is ten minutes.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the specific number of different day periods is three.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the day periods comprises a two-day period.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the top number of scores comprises the top five scores, and the top five closely associated tags and scores comprises a system within the system.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the following number of tags of the plurality of tags is equal to one thousand tags.
7. A server system comprising: at least one processor configured to be coupled to an industrial process; a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for tangibly storing thereon program logic for execution by the processor, the program logic comprising: logic executable by the at least one processor for receiving at least one data communication from at least one industrial control system of the industrial process, the at least one data communication comprising a plurality of signals comprising a plurality of data values and associated plurality of tags received over time from the industrial process; logic executable by the at least one processor that automatically associates tags defining a system within the industrial process, wherein the automatic association is operated by at least a portion of the program logic executable by the at least one processor by: calculating a time-weighted average over a specific time period for each signal of the plurality of signals; selecting a specific number of different day periods sampled from the plurality of tags and associated plurality of signals; performing a linear regression of plurality of signals over the specific time period for each tag of the plurality of tags; calculating a slope and intercept of the linear regression; calculating a residual value of each data value of the plurality of signals over the specific time period by subtracting an expected value calculated from the linear regression from the actual value of each data value of plurality of signals over the specific time period; calculating a normalized value of each residual value by subtracting its mean from all of its samples and dividing each sample by its residual standard deviation; calculating an absolute value of a dot product of the normalized residual value and the residual value of a following number of tags of the plurality of tags; assigning the smallest of the dot products calculated for each specific time period as a score; and defining the system by recording a top number of scores and associated tag names so that each tag includes the top number of most closely associated tags and scores.
8. The server system of claim 7, wherein the specific time period is between five and ten minutes.
9. The server system of claim 7, wherein the specific time period is more than ten minutes.
10. The server system of claim 7, wherein the specific number of different day periods is three.
11. The server system of claim 7, wherein the day periods comprises a two-day period.
12. The server system of claim 7, wherein the top number of scores comprises the top five scores, and the top five closely associated tags and scores defines the system.
13. The server system of claim 7, wherein the following number of tags of the plurality of tags is equal to one thousand tags.
14. The server system of claim 7, wherein the tags of the plurality of tags over the specific time period are sorted by name.
15. The server system of claim 7, wherein the scores are calculated for all pairs of tags within the following number of tags of the plurality of tags.
16. The server system of claim 7, wherein the top number of scores and associated tag names is calculated for x-axis tags and y-axis tags.
</claims>
</document>
