<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDI TAGHI ABAD, FARDIN
FARIVAR, REZA
GOODSITT, JEREMY
PHAM, VINCENT
TRUONG, ANH
WALTER S. AUSTIN
WATSON, MARK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70736346
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR TRAINING AND EXECUTING A NEURAL NETWORK FOR COLLABORATIVE MONITORING OF RESOURCE USAGE
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are systems and methods for training and executing a neural network for collaborative monitoring of resource usage metrics. For example, a method may include receiving user data sets, grouping the user data sets into one or more clusters of user data sets, grouping each of the one or more clusters into a plurality of subclusters, for each of the plurality of subclusters, training the neural network to associate the subcluster with one or more sequential patterns found within the subcluster, grouping the plurality of user data sets into a plurality of teams, receiving a first series of transactions of a first user, inputting the first series of transactions into the trained neural network, classifying, using the trained neural network, the first user into a subcluster among the plurality of subclusters, generating a metric associated with the first series of transactions, generating a recommendation to the first user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A computer system for training and executing a neural network for collaborative monitoring of resource usage metrics, the system comprising: a memory having processor-readable instructions stored therein; and at least one processor configured to access the memory and execute the processor-readable instructions, which when executed by the processor configures the processor to perform a plurality of functions, including functions for: receiving or generating a plurality of user data sets from a plurality of users, wherein each user data set of the plurality of user data sets comprises a user identification data and a detailed user data of a respective user of the plurality of users; grouping the plurality of users into a plurality of teams, each team in the plurality of teams including a teamed user data set including the user data sets of users grouped within the respective team; generating a collective metric for each of the plurality of teams based on the teamed user data sets; upon determining that the collective metric of at least one team of the plurality of teams exceeds a first predetermined threshold, removing a user from the at least one team; and upon determining that the collective metric of the at least one team is below a second predetermined threshold and the collective metric with the addition of the user data set of an additional user does not exceed the first predetermined threshold, adding the additional user to the at least one team of the plurality of teams.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the first predetermined threshold and the second predetermined threshold have a same value.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein the plurality of functions further comprise: receiving updates to the plurality of user data sets; and updating the collective metric for each of the plurality of teams based on the updates to the plurality of user data sets.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the updates to the plurality of user data sets comprise updates to user identification data.
25. The system of claim 21, wherein the plurality of functions further comprise: receiving a first series of transactions of a first user, the first user corresponding to a first teamed user data set of the plurality of teamed user data sets relating to a first team among the plurality of teams, and the first series of transactions including one or more transactions performed by the first user; generating a metric based on the first series of transactions; and updating the collective metric of the first team based on said metric.
26. The system of claim 23, wherein the plurality of functions further comprise: modifying a quantity of teams in the plurality of teams based on the updated collective metric for each of the plurality of teams.
27. The system of claim 21, wherein the collective metric of a respective team of the plurality of teams is an average credit score of users grouped within the respective team.
28. The system of claim 21, wherein the collective metric of a respective team of the plurality of teams is an average checking account balance of users grouped within the respective team.
29. The system of claim 25, wherein the plurality of user data sets includes data related to the fiscal decision behavior qualities of one or more users.
30. A computer-implemented method for collaborative monitoring of resource usage metrics, the method comprising: receiving or generating, by one or more processors, a plurality of user data sets from a plurality of users, wherein each user data set of the plurality of user data sets comprises a user identification data and a detailed user data of a respective user of the plurality of users; grouping, by the one or more processors, the plurality of users into a plurality of teams, each team in the plurality of teams including a teamed user data set including the user data sets of users grouped within the respective team; generating, by the one or more processors, a collective metric for each of the plurality of teams based on the teamed user data sets; upon determining that the collective metric of at least one team of the plurality of teams exceeds a first predetermined threshold, removing, by one or more processors, a user from the at least one team; and upon determining that the collective metric of the at least one team is below a second predetermined threshold and the collective metric with the addition of the user data set of an additional user does not exceed the first predetermined threshold, adding, by one or more processors, the additional user to the at least one team of the plurality of teams.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein the first predetermined threshold and the second predetermined threshold have a same value.
32. The method of claim 30 further comprising: receiving, by the one or more processors, updates to the plurality of user data sets; and updating, by the one or more processors, the collective metric for each of the plurality of teams based on the updates to the plurality of user data sets.
33. The method of claim 32, wherein the updates to the plurality of user data sets comprise updates to user identification data.
34. The method of claim 30, further comprising: receiving, by the one or more processors, a first series of transactions of a first user, the first user corresponding to a first teamed user data set of the plurality of teamed user data sets relating to a first team among the plurality of teams, and the first series of transactions including one or more transactions performed by the first user; generating, by the one or more processors, a metric based on the first series of transactions; and updating, by the one or more processors, the collective metric of the first team based on said metric.
35. The method of claim 32, further comprising: modifying a quantity of teams in the plurality of teams based on the updated collective metric for each of the plurality of teams.
36. The method of claim 30, wherein the collective metric of a respective team of the plurality of teams is an average credit score of users grouped within the respective team.
37. The method of claim 30, wherein the collective metric of a respective team of the plurality of teams is an average checking account balance of users grouped within the respective team.
38. The method of claim 34, wherein the plurality of user data sets includes data related to the fiscal decision behavior qualities of one or more users.
39. The method of claim 34, wherein the collective metric of a respective team of the plurality of teams is an average percentage of credit used of users grouped within the respective team.
40. A computer system for training and executing a neural network for collaborative monitoring of resource usage metrics, the system comprising: a memory having processor-readable instructions stored therein; and at least one processor configured to access the memory and execute the processor-readable instructions, which when executed by the processor configures the processor to perform a plurality of functions, including functions for: receiving or generating a plurality of user data sets from a plurality of users, wherein each user data set of the plurality of user data sets comprises a user identification data and a detailed user data of a respective user of the plurality of users; grouping the plurality of users into a plurality of teams, each team in the plurality of teams including a teamed user data set including the user data sets of users grouped within the respective team; generating a collective metric for each of the plurality of teams based on the teamed user data sets; upon determining that the collective metric of at least one team of the plurality of teams exceeds a first predetermined threshold, removing a user from the at least one team; receiving updates to the plurality of user data sets wherein the updates to the plurality of user data sets comprise updates to user identification data; and updating the collective metric for each of the plurality of teams based on the updates to the plurality of user data sets.
</claims>
</document>
