<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01V1/28,G01V1/30,G06F16/22,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EXXONMOBIL UPSTREAM RESEARCH COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DENLI, HUSEYIN
HERNANDEZ, DIEGO A.
KOVALSKI, MICHAEL H.
LIU, KUANG-HUNG
LIU, WEI D.
MACDONALD, CODY J.
SOM DE CERFF, VICTORIA M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68848432
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated Seismic Interpretation Systems and Methods for Continual Learning and Inference of Geological Features
</title>

<abstract>
A method and apparatus for automated seismic interpretation (ASI), including: obtaining trained models comprising a geologic scenario from a model repository, wherein the trained models comprise executable code; obtaining test data comprising geophysical data for a subsurface region; and performing an inference on the test data with the trained models to generate a feature probability map representative of subsurface features. A method and apparatus for machine learning, including: an ASI model; a training dataset comprising seismic images and a plurality of data portions; a plurality of memory locations, each comprising a replication of the ASI model and a different data portion of the training dataset; a plurality of data augmentation modules, each identified with one of the plurality of memory locations; a training module configured to receive output from the plurality of data augmentation modules; and a model repository configured to receive updated models from the training module.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of automated seismic interpretation, comprising: obtaining one or more trained models comprising a geologic scenario from a model repository, wherein the one or more trained models comprise executable code; obtaining test data comprising geophysical data for a subsurface region; and performing an inference on the test data with the one or more trained models to generate a feature probability map representative of subsurface features.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising obtaining feedback for the one or more trained models based on the feature probability map.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein obtaining feedback comprises: extracting one or more objects from the feature probability map; and obtaining labeling of the one or more objects to correspond to the subsurface features.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising retraining one or more of the trained models based on the feedback.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: obtaining second test data comprising geophysical data for the subsurface region; and performing a second inference on the second test data with the retrained one or more trained models.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising training a plurality of models for the model repository to generate the one or more trained models.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising, after training one or more of the plurality of models, storing the one or more trained models in a hierarchical structure in the model repository.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the hierarchical structure is based on a tree structure.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein training the plurality of models comprises: obtaining first model definitions; obtaining first training data comprising labeled seismic images; and training a machine learning system based on the first model definitions and the first training data.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein training the machine learning system comprises optimizing parameters of at least one of the plurality of models to fit the labeled seismic images of the first training data, wherein optimizing parameters comprises changing one or more parameter values.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: obtaining feedback for the one or more trained models based on the feature probability map; and retraining the machine learning system based on the feedback and at least one of: additional model definitions; and additional training data.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the additional training data includes at least a portion of the test data.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the additional training data does not include the first training data.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein performing the inference on the test data occurs concurrently with retraining the machine learning system.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein performing the inference is in response to a first user's request, and retraining the plurality of trained models is in response to a second user's request.
16. The method of claim 9, further comprising: obtaining at least one of: second model definitions; and second training data comprising labeled seismic images; and retraining the machine learning system based on: one of the first model definitions and the second model definitions; and one of the first training data and the second training data.
17. The method of claim 2, further comprising: retraining the one or more trained models based on the feedback; and while retraining: training a generative model with training data comprising labeled seismic images; and generating new data using the trained generative model.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the retraining comprises concatenation of labeled test data with the training data.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the retraining comprises constraints on at least some parameters for an automated seismic interpretation (ASI) model.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the constraints comprise at least one of: freezing parameters related to previously-learned interpretation tasks; and freezing network connections related to previously-learned interpretation tasks.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the retraining comprises allowing change of unfrozen parameters of the ASI model to adjust for learning new interpretation tasks during the retraining.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the retraining further comprises, when the unfrozen parameters are not sufficient for the ASI model to learn new interpretation tasks, modifying the ASI model to provide additional parameters.
23. The method of claim 19, wherein the constraints include adding regularization to the parameters for the ASI model related to previously-learned interpretation tasks to penalize change of the parameters.
24. The method of claim 1, further comprising managing hydrocarbons in the subsurface region based at least in part upon the feature probability map.
25. A machine learning system, comprising: an automated seismic interpretation (ASI) model; a training dataset comprising seismic images, wherein the training dataset includes a plurality of data portions; a plurality of memory locations, each comprising a replication of the ASI model and a different data portion of the training dataset; a plurality of data augmentation modules, each configured to implement a respective data augmentation routine, and each identified with one of the plurality of memory locations; a training module configured to implement a training routine, and configured to receive output from the plurality of data augmentation modules; and a model repository configured to receive updated models from the training module.
26. The machine learning system of claim 25, wherein each data augmentation module comprises a processing unit.
27. The machine learning system of claim 25, wherein at least two of the plurality of data portions at least partially overlap.
28. The machine learning system of claim 25, wherein the training module is further configured to: read augmented training data from the output; modify model parameters based on the augmented training data, an objective function, and an optimization method; and iteratively repeat reading and modifying until convergence of the objective function.
29. The machine learning system of claim 28, wherein the model repository is configured to receive one of the updated models after the training routine reaches convergence of the objective function, said updated model comprising the modified model parameters.
30. A distributed computer network comprising: a training datasuperset comprising seismic images and dividable into a plurality of datasubsets; and a plurality of nodes, each comprising an instance of the machine learning system of claim 25, and each identified with one of the plurality of datasubsets, wherein the plurality of nodes share the same model repository.
</claims>
</document>
