<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/55,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMC IP HOLDING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GEFEN, AVITAN
SAGI, OMER
SAVIR, AMIHAI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017578
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FACIAL RECOGNITION FOR MULTI-STREAM VIDEO USING HIGH PROBABILITY GROUP AND FACIAL NETWORK OF RELATED PERSONS
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are provided for facial recognition using a high probability group database and a facial network of related persons. One method comprises maintaining a probability-based database of facial images comprising a subset of individuals from a first database of facial images of a plurality of individuals based on a probability of individuals appearing in sequences of image frames at a given time; applying a face detection algorithm to at least one sequence of image frames to identify one or more faces in the sequences of image frames; maintaining a facial network of related persons associated with the probability-based database by obtaining facial images of one or more additional individuals from the first database that satisfy a predefined related person criteria with respect to individuals identified in at least one sequence of image frames; and applying a facial recognition to at least sequence of image frames using at least the probability-based database and the facial network of related persons to identify individuals in the sequence of image frames.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: maintaining a probability-based database of facial images comprising a subset of individuals from a first database of facial images of a plurality of individuals, wherein the subset is obtained based on a probability of individuals appearing in one or more sequences of image frames at a given time; applying a face detection algorithm to at least one of the sequences of image frames to identify one or more faces in the one or more sequences of image frames; maintaining a facial network of related persons associated with the probability-based database by obtaining one or more facial images of one or more additional individuals from the first database of images that satisfy a predefined related person criteria with respect to one or more individuals identified in at least one of the sequences of image frames; and applying a facial recognition to at least one of the sequences of image frames using at least the probability-based database and the facial network of related persons to identify one or more individuals in the at least one sequence of image frames, wherein the method is performed by at least one processing device comprising a processor coupled to a memory.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of maintaining the facial network of related persons further comprises the step of obtaining the one or more facial images of the one or more additional individuals from the first database of images based on a specified network size criteria.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the specified network size criteria comprises one or more of a number of edges, a community name and a maximum network size.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the probability-based database of facial images is comprised of facial images of one or more individuals that appeared in one or more prior image frames and is stored in one or more of a local memory, a cache, an edge device, a cloud device and an Internet device.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein a new image frame is processed to associate a face in the new image frame with a face that has previously been tracked if a facial image in the new image frame satisfies a predefined similarity metric with respect to the face that has previously been tracked.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein a new image frame is processed to assign a name to a facial image in the new image frame if the facial image satisfies a predefined similarity metric with a given face in the probability-based database.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein a new image frame is processed to add a facial image in the new image frame to the probability-based database if the facial image does not satisfy a predefined similarity metric with a given face in the probability-based database.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of matching one or more images of a face of an unnamed person in the probability-based database to images of known faces in the first database to obtain a name of the unnamed person.
9. A computer program product, comprising a tangible machine-readable storage medium having encoded therein executable code of one or more software programs, wherein the one or more software programs when executed by at least one processing device perform the following steps: maintaining a probability-based database of facial images comprising a subset of individuals from a first database of facial images of a plurality of individuals, wherein the subset is obtained based on a probability of individuals appearing in one or more sequences of image frames at a given time; applying a face detection algorithm to at least one of the sequences of image frames to identify one or more faces in the one or more sequences of image frames; maintaining a facial network of related persons associated with the probability-based database by obtaining one or more facial images of one or more additional individuals from the first database of images that satisfy a predefined related person criteria with respect to one or more individuals identified in at least one of the sequences of image frames; and applying a facial recognition to at least one of the sequences of image frames using at least the probability-based database and the facial network of related persons to identify one or more individuals in the at least one sequence of image frames.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the step of maintaining the facial network of related persons further comprises the step of obtaining the one or more facial images of the one or more additional individuals from the first database of images based on a specified network size criteria.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the specified network size criteria comprises one or more of a number of edges, a community name and a maximum network size.
12. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein a new image frame is processed to associate a face in the new image frame with a face that has previously been tracked if a facial image in the new image frame satisfies a predefined similarity metric with respect to the face that has previously been tracked.
13. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein a new image frame is processed to assign a name to a facial image in the new image frame if the facial image satisfies a predefined similarity metric with a given face in the probability-based database.
14. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein a new image frame is processed to add a facial image in the new image frame to the probability-based database if the facial image does not satisfy a predefined similarity metric with a given face in the probability-based database.
15. An apparatus, comprising: a memory; and at least one processing device, coupled to the memory, operative to implement the following steps: maintaining a probability-based database of facial images comprising a subset of individuals from a first database of facial images of a plurality of individuals, wherein the subset is obtained based on a probability of individuals appearing in one or more sequences of image frames at a given time; applying a face detection algorithm to at least one of the sequences of image frames to identify one or more faces in the one or more sequences of image frames; maintaining a facial network of related persons associated with the probability-based database by obtaining one or more facial images of one or more additional individuals from the first database of images that satisfy a predefined related person criteria with respect to one or more individuals identified in at least one of the sequences of image frames; and applying a facial recognition to at least one of the sequences of image frames using at least the probability-based database and the facial network of related persons to identify one or more individuals in the at least one sequence of image frames.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the step of maintaining the facial network of related persons further comprises the step of obtaining the one or more facial images of the one or more additional individuals from the first database of images based on a specified network size criteria.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the specified network size criteria comprises one or more of a number of edges, a community name and a maximum network size.
18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein a new image frame is processed to associate a face in the new image frame with a face that has previously been tracked if a facial image in the new image frame satisfies a predefined similarity metric with respect to the face that has previously been tracked.
19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein a new image frame is processed to assign a name to a facial image in the new image frame if the facial image satisfies a predefined similarity metric with a given face in the probability-based database.
20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein a new image frame is processed to add a facial image in the new image frame to the probability-based database if the facial image does not satisfy a predefined similarity metric with a given face in the probability-based database.
</claims>
</document>
