<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/04,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MJNN
</assignee>

<inventors>
Diamos, Sudnya
Pottinger, A. Samuel
Swafford, Zachary Duncan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017612
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED PLACEMENT OF PLANT VARIETIES FOR OPTIMUM PERFORMANCE WITHIN A GROW SPACE SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITION VARIABILITY
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods and computer-readable media are provided for determining optimum placement, within a grow space, of plants of different varieties. Sets of reference environmental setpoints each correspond to a desired predicted performance of a respective plant variety. Environmental condition metrics at different positions within the grow space are determined. An allocation of the plants is determined among different volumetric regions within the grow space based on predicted performance of the plant varieties as a function of position within the grow space.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions for determining placement, within a grow space, of plants of one or more varieties of a plurality of plant varieties, wherein the instructions, when executed by one or more computing devices, cause at least one of the one or more computing devices to: a. access one or more sets of one or more reference environmental setpoints, wherein each of the one or more sets corresponds to a desired predicted performance of a respective plant variety of the plurality of varieties; b. access environmental condition metrics at different positions within the grow space; and c. determine an allocation of the plants of the one or more plant varieties among different volumetric regions within the grow space based on predicted performance of the one or more plant varieties as a function of position within the grow space.
2. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein the one or more plant varieties comprise two or more plant varieties.
3. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein a region is a space encompassing one or more receptacle supports, and each receptacle support has a plurality of receptacles that each support a plant.
4. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 1, storing further instructions that, when executed, cause movement to a first region of a first receptacle support supporting first plants of a first plant variety allocated to the first region.
5. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 1, storing further instructions that, when executed, cause movement to a first region of a first receptacle support supporting first plants of a first plant variety allocated to the first region, wherein the first receptacle support also supports plants of another plant variety.
6. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 1, storing further instructions that, when executed, cause movement to a first region first and second receptacle supports that each support first plants of a first plant variety allocated to the first region.
7. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein determining an allocation comprises determining an allocation of first plants of a first variety and second plants of a second variety to a first region and a second region, respectively, based on predicted performance of the first and second plant varieties within the grow space.
8. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 7, storing further instructions that, when executed, cause movement to the first region first plants of the first variety and moving to a second region second plants of the second variety.
9. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 1, storing further instructions that when executed, in response to a change in environmental condition metrics, determine a second allocation of the plants of the one or more plant varieties among the different regions based on predicted performance of the one or more plant varieties within the grow space.
10. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 9, storing further instructions that, when executed, cause movement from a first region to a third region of a first receptacle support supporting first plants of a first plant variety that were allocated to the first region during a first allocation and then reallocated to the third region based upon the second allocation.
11. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein the grow space comprises a plurality of grow towers.
12. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein determining an allocation is based at least in part upon the Hungarian assignment algorithm.
13. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein the one or more reference environmental setpoints correspond to at least one of temperature, relative humidity, or air flow.
14. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein the predicted performance relates to at least one of growth rate, harvest weight yield, or energy cost.
15. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein the environmental condition metrics are based at least in part upon sensor data.
16. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more sets of reference environmental setpoints is determined by an optimization algorithm.
17. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 16, wherein the optimization algorithm uses machine learning.
18. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein the grow space has a controlled agricultural environment.
19. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein determining an allocation comprises maximizing overall predicted performance of the plants.
20. A computer-implemented method for determining placement, within a grow space, of plants of one or more varieties of a plurality of plant varieties, the method comprising: a. accessing, by a processor, one or more sets of one or more reference environmental setpoints, wherein each of the one or more sets corresponds to a desired predicted performance of a respective plant variety of the plurality of varieties; b. accessing, by a processor, environmental condition metrics at different positions within the grow space; and c. determining, by a processor, an allocation of the plants of the one or more plant varieties among different volumetric regions within the grow space based on predicted performance of the one or more plant varieties as a function of position within the grow space.
21. A system for determining placement, within a grow space, of plants of one or more varieties of a plurality of plant varieties, the system comprising: one or more memories storing instructions; one or more processors, operatively coupled to the one or more memories, that execute the instructions to cause the system to: a. access one or more sets of one or more reference environmental setpoints, wherein each of the one or more sets corresponds to a desired predicted performance of a respective plant variety of the plurality of varieties; b. access environmental condition metrics at different positions within the grow space; and c. determine an allocation of the plants of the one or more plant varieties among different volumetric regions within the grow space based on predicted performance of the one or more plant varieties as a function of position within the grow space.
</claims>
</document>
