<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/11,G01S13/34,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOTEMIC LABS
</assignee>

<inventors>
JOSHI, KIRAN R.
PATRA, LENIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70223424
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROCESSING USING MULTI-CORE PROCESSORS, SIGNALS AND AI PROCESSORS FROM MULTIPLE SOURCES
</title>

<abstract>
In an example, the present invention provides an UWB and FMCW sensor apparatus, with an audio module and inertial motion module, using multi-core processing and an AI processor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for capturing information from a spatial region to monitor human activities, the system comprising: a housing, the housing having sufficient structural strength to protect an interior region within the housing; a height characterizing the housing from a bottom region to a top region; a plurality of regions within the housing numbered from 1 to N, each of the regions configured with one or more modules; a processor device comprising a micro-processing unit, a digital signal processing unit, and an image processing unit, the processor device provided in one of the N regions in the housing; an audio module comprising a plurality of microphone devices spatially disposed along a region of a substrate member, each of the microphone devices having an analog output configured to the digital signal processing unit with a dedicated bus, the audio module provided in one of the N levels in the housing; and a radio frequency module comprising a plurality of transmitting antenna and a plurality of receiving antenna and comprising a serial bus coupled to the micro-processing unit, the radio frequency module being configured to receive back scattered electromagnetic radiation signals from a spatial region; and transmitting information associated with the back scattered electromagnetic radiation signals to the processor device, the radio frequency module being provided in the housing; and an artificial intelligence module coupled to the processor device using a computer bus and configured with at least the audio module and radio frequency module to process information from at least one of the audio module or the radio frequency module to process the information to classify the information into one or more classifications; and providing a feedback based upon the classification, the artificial intelligence module being provided in the housing.
2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a cellular network module comprising a cellular interface configured to the micro-processing unit with a cellular connection, the cellular network module being provided in the housing.
3. The system of claim 2 further comprising: a user interface configured on an exterior portion of the housing, and configured with the processor device to initial a call to an external network using the cellular network module.
4. The system of claim 3 further comprising a speaker device coupled to the processor device; and an audio driver device coupled to drive the speaker device from a user at a remote location communicating through the cellular network module.
5. The system of claim 3 further comprising a power management system comprising a power up and down sequence controller, a power good indication, a thermal monitor and protection, a short circuit protection, and a processing health monitor, the power management system coupled to the processing device and coupled to audio module and the radio frequency module.
6. The system of claim 3 further comprising an Ethernet connection coupled to the processing device; and a co-axial connection coupled to the processing device, the co-axial connection being coupled to a cable television source.
7. The system of claim 3 further comprising a plurality of memory resources coupled to the processing device, the memory resources comprising a flash memory array, a dynamic random access memory array, and an EEPROM memory array.
8. The system of claim 3 further comprising a WiFi sensor module coupled to the processing device using a personal computer interface.
9. The system of claim 3 wherein the user interface comprising a general purposes input and output device comprising a first button, a second button, a third button, and a fourth button.
10. The system of claim 3 further comprising an inertial measurement module comprising an LED array, an accelerometer device, a gas sensor device, and a pressure sensor device configured to detect a pressure within an environment of the housing.
11. The system of claim 3 further comprising an inertial measurement module comprising a gas sensor to detect a presence of carbon dioxide and coupled to the processor device configured to send out an alert based upon a level of carbon dioxide.
12. The system of claim 3 further comprising a plurality of LED devices configured spatially around a periphery of the substrate member to allow for illumination of electromagnetic radiation.
13. The system of claim 3 further comprising an inertial measurement module comprising a i2C bus coupled to a plurality of LED devices, a gyroscope device, an accelerometer device, a compass device, a pressure device, and a gas sensor, the i2C bus coupled to the processing device.
14. The system of claim 3 wherein the micro-processing unit comprises an ARM processing unit coupled to the digital signal processing unit and the image processing unit and are configured on a single integrated circuit chip comprising silicon bearing material.
15. The system of claim 3 wherein the radio frequency module comprises: an ultra wide band (UWB) module; and a frequency modulated continuous wave (FMCW) transceiver module comprising a virtual antenna array configured to form a larger spatial region using the virtual antenna array, than a physical spatial region of the plurality of receiving antenna.
16. A system for capturing information from a spatial region to monitor human activities, the system comprising: a housing, the housing having sufficient structural strength to protect an interior region within the housing; a height characterizing the housing from a bottom region to a top region; a plurality of regions within the housing numbered from 1 to N, each of the regions configured with one or more modules; a processor device comprising a micro-processing unit, a digital signal processing unit, and an image processing unit, the processor device being provided in the housing; a network module comprising an interface, the interface being coupled to the processing device, the network module being provided in the housing; a speaker device coupled to the processor device, and an audio driver device coupled to the speaker device, the processor device being configured with the network module to communicate audio information to output acoustic energy from the speaker device, the speaker device being provided in the housing; a user interface configured on an exterior portion of the housing, and coupled to the processor device; an audio module comprising a plurality of peripheral microphone devices spatially disposed along a peripheral region of a substrate member, each of the peripheral microphone devices having an analog output coupled to the digital signal processing unit, the audio module being provided in the housing; and an artificial intelligence module coupled to the processor device, the artificial intelligence module being provided in the housing.
17. The system of claim 16 further comprising a power management system comprising a power up and down sequence controller, a power good indication, a thermal monitor and protection, a short circuit protection, and a processing health monitor, the power management system coupled to the processing device and coupled to audio module and the radio frequency module.
18. The system of claim 16 further comprising an Ethernet connection coupled to the processing device.
19. The system of claim 16 further comprising a plurality of memory resources coupled to the processing device, the memory resources comprising a flash memory array, a dynamic random access memory array, and an EEPROM memory array.
20. The system of claim 16 further comprising: a WiFi sensor module coupled to the processing device using a personal computer interface; the user interface comprising a general purposes input and output device comprising a first button, a second button, a third button, and a fourth button; an inertial measurement module comprising an LED array, an accelerometer device, a gas sensor device, and a pressure sensor device configured to detect a pressure within an environment of the housing.
21. The system of claim 16 further comprising an inertial measurement module comprising a gas sensor to detect a presence of carbon dioxide and coupled to the processor device configured to send out an alert based upon a level of carbon dioxide.
22. A method of capturing information from a spatial region to monitor human activities, the method comprising: using an apparatus comprising a housing within a spatial region of a living quarter, the housing having sufficient structural strength to protect an interior region within the housing, the housing having a plurality of regions within the housing numbered from 1 to N, each of the regions configured with one or more modules; the housing having an audio module comprising: a substrate member; a plurality of peripheral microphone devices spatially disposed along a peripheral region of the substrate member, each of the peripheral microphone devices having an analog output; a spatial configuration using an edge region for the peripheral region to provide a field of view from the plurality of peripheral microphone devices; a bus device coupled to each of the analog to digital converters, the bus device communicating with each of the plurality of peripheral microphone devices; a signal processor coupled to the bus device; and a micro processor device coupled to the signal processor; sensing a plurality of audio signals comprising an audio event from each of the plurality of microphone devices, each of the plurality of microphone device receiving an audio signal of a different signal strength based upon a spatial location of each of the microphone devices; converting each of the audio signals from each of the microphone devices into a plurality of digital signals in a first format; processing the digital signals in the first format to a second format; transferring the digital signals in the second format using a dedicated interface device from each of the plurality of microphone devices into a receive interface device coupled to the signal processor without transferring the digital signals in the second format to the micro processing device; processing information associated with the digital signals using the signal processor to select one of the microphone devices that has a strongest audio signal as compared to any of the other microphone devices; and transferring information associated with the digital signals from the selected microphone device to an outgoing interface device; and processing the information using an artificial intelligence module to classify the information into one of a plurality of classifications.
23. The method of claim 22 further comprising processing the digital signals from the selected microphone device and using the artificial intelligence module to identify the event from one of the plurality of classifications.
</claims>
</document>
