<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CYLANCE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAREY, MARK
BATHURST, DONALD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63519684
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMMUNICATIONS BUS SIGNAL FINGERPRINTING
</title>

<abstract>
Systems are provided herein for communications bus signal fingerprinting. A security module monitors a plurality of voltage lines of at least one electronic control unit (ECU) electrically coupled to a communications bus. A voltage differential across at least two of the plurality of voltage lines of the at least one ECU is measured. The voltage differential is compared to a plurality of predetermined signal fingerprints associated with the at least one ECU. A variance in the compared voltage differential is identified relative to one or more of the plurality of predetermined signal fingerprints. Data characterizing the identified variance is provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a first security zone comprising a first data processor and a second security zone comprising a second data processor, wherein each of the first data processor and the second data processor are configured to execute operations comprising: monitoring a plurality of voltage lines of a first electronic control unit (ECU) and a second ECU, wherein each ECU is electrically coupled to a communications bus; measuring voltage differentials across at least two of the plurality of voltage lines of the first ECU and at least two of the plurality of voltage lines of the second ECU; comparing each voltage differential to a plurality of predetermined signal fingerprints associated with the first ECU and the second ECU, the plurality of predetermined signal fingerprints representing various voltages over time that characterize nominal operation of the first ECU and the second ECU; identifying, based on the comparing, a variance in at least one of the compared voltage differentials relative to one or more of the plurality of predetermined signal fingerprints, the variance identifying whether signal transmissions on at least one of the plurality of voltage lines has been compromised; providing data characterizing the identified variance; and an encryption device configured to encrypt the data characterizing the identified variance, wherein the encrypted data identifies an origination security zone of the data as either the first security zone or the second security zone based on which of the at least one of the first data processor or the second data processor identifies the variance.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the providing comprises at least one of: causing an alert to trigger, transmitting a fault state message corresponding to the data to the communications bus, or transmitting the data to a remote computing device.
3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of predetermined signal fingerprints comprises signals of transceiver components of the first ECU and the second ECU.
4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the communications bus comprises a serial communications bus.
5. The system according to claim 4, wherein the serial communications bus comprises a controller area network (CAN) bus and the at least two of the plurality of voltage lines comprises either a CAN high voltage line or a CAN low voltage line and a ground line.
6. The system according to claim 1, wherein a vehicle control network comprises the communications bus, the vehicle control network comprising (i) the first ECU and the second ECU, each electrically coupled between the communications bus and a plurality of nodes, (ii) the first security module electrically coupled between the first ECU and the communications bus and the second security module electrically coupled between the second ECU and the communications bus, and (iii) at least a portion of the communications bus.
7. The system according to claim 1, wherein the monitoring is initiated upon at least one of: during operation of the security module or the second security module, after replacement of the first security module or the second security module, during a loss of clock synchronization of the first security module or the second security module, during a predetermined clock synchronization time window, or after replacement of the first ECU or the second ECU.
8. The system according to claim 1, wherein each of the first security module and the second security module comprises a microcontroller, one or more transceivers, a clock, a power regulator, a transmitter, and an analog-to-digital (AD) sampler.
9. The system according to claim 1, wherein at least one of a motor vehicle, a ship, an airplane, or a train comprises the communications bus.
10. The system according to claim 1, wherein in response to receiving the data characterizing the identified variance, a corrective action is taken.
11. A system comprising: a first security zone comprising a first data processor and a second security zone comprising a second data processor, wherein each of the first data processor and the second data processor are configured to execute operations comprising: measuring a first voltage line of a first electronic control unit (ECU) and a second ECU during an imprint mode of the first security module and the second security module; determining a first signal fingerprint associated with the first ECU and a second signal fingerprint associated with the second ECU over time by comparing (i) the measured first voltage line to a first ideal voltage associated with the first measured voltage line and (ii) the measured second voltage line to a second ideal voltage associated with the second measured voltage line; and providing data characterizing the first signal fingerprint and the second signal fingerprint, each signal fingerprint representing various voltages over time that characterize nominal operation of the first ECU and the second ECU; an encryption device configured to encrypt the data comprising the first signal fingerprint and the second fingerprint, wherein the encrypted data identifies an origination security zone of the data as the first security zone for the first signal fingerprint and the second security zone for the second signal fingerprint; and a communications bus coupled to the first security zone and the second security zone.
12. The system according to claim 11, wherein the providing comprises at least one of: causing an alert to trigger, transmitting a fault state message corresponding to the data to the communications bus, or transmitting the data to a remote computing device.
13. The system according to claim 11, wherein each of the first signal fingerprint and the second signal finger print comprises signals of transceiver components of the first ECU and the second ECU.
14. The system according to claim 11, wherein the communications bus comprises a serial communications bus.
15. The system according to claim 14, wherein the serial communications bus comprises a controller area network (CAN) bus and each of the first voltage line and the second voltage line comprises either a CAN high voltage line or a CAN low voltage line and a ground line.
16. The system according to claim 11, wherein a vehicle control network comprises the communications bus, the vehicle control network comprising (i) the first ECU and the second ECU, each electrically coupled between the communications bus and a plurality of nodes, (ii) the first security module electrically coupled between the first ECU and the communications bus and the second security module electrically coupled between the second ECU and the communications bus, and (iii) at least a portion of the communications bus.
17. The system according to claim 11, wherein each of the first security module and the second security module comprises a microcontroller, one or more transceivers, a clock, a power regulator, a transmitter, and an analog-to-digital (AD) sampler.
18. The system according to claim 11, wherein at least one of a motor vehicle, a ship, an airplane, or a train comprises the communications bus.
19. A system comprising: means for monitoring a plurality of voltage lines of a first electronic control unit (ECU) and a second ECU, wherein each ECU is electrically coupled to a communications bus; means for measuring voltage differentials across at least two of the plurality of voltage lines of the first ECU and at least two of the plurality of voltage lines of the second ECU; means for comparing each voltage differential to a plurality of predetermined signal fingerprints associated with the first ECU and the second ECU, the plurality of predetermined signal fingerprints representing various voltages over time that characterize nominal operation of the first ECU and the second ECU; means for identifying, based on the comparing, a variance in at least one of the compared voltage differentials relative to one or more of the plurality of predetermined signal fingerprints, the variance identifying whether signal transmissions on at least one of the plurality of voltage lines has been compromised; means for providing data characterizing the identified variance; and means for encrypting the data characterizing the identified variance, wherein the encrypted data identifies an origination security zone of the data as either the first security zone or the second security zone based on which of the at least one of the first data processor or the second data processor identifies the variance.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the plurality of predetermined signal fingerprints comprises signals of transceiver components of the first ECU and the second ECU.
</claims>
</document>
