<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W72/12,H04W72/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHAO, QING
SILVERMAN, MATTHEW AARON
CHAPMAN, JOHN T.
LIU, DANTONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69640321
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT SCHEDULING OF A WIRELESS NETWORK FOR A BACKHAUL
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and computer-readable media for coordinating scheduling between a wireless scheduler and a backhaul scheduler to reduce uplink data transmission latency. In some examples, an uplink data prediction for uplink data to transmit over a wireless connection of a wireless network is identified by a wireless scheduler of a wireless network. The uplink data prediction can be provided to a backhaul scheduler of a backhaul of the wireless network. The wireless scheduler can be coordinated with the backhaul scheduler by the backhaul scheduler to coordinate transmission of the uplink data through the backhaul based on the uplink data prediction. The uplink data can then be received at the backhaul for transmission through the backhaul based on the uplink data prediction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: identifying, by a wireless scheduler of a wireless network, an uplink data prediction for uplink data to transmit over a wireless connection of the wireless network, wherein the uplink data prediction is made before the uplink data is received at the backhaul and the uplink data prediction includes a prediction of at least one of an arrival time of the uplink data, an amount of traffic in the uplink data, quality of service requirements for the uplink data, a user associated with the uplink data, a traffic arrival rate of the uplink data, and a data type of the uplink data; providing the uplink data prediction to a backhaul scheduler of a backhaul of the wireless network; coordinating the wireless scheduler with the backhaul scheduler by configuring the backhaul scheduler to coordinate transmission of the uplink data through the backhaul based on the uplink data prediction; and receiving the uplink data at the backhaul for transmission through the backhaul based on the uplink data prediction.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the uplink data prediction is generated before the uplink data is generated and transmitted over the wireless connection of the wireless network.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the wireless network is an IEEE 802.11ax compliant wireless network.
4. (canceled)
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying the uplink data prediction from downlink traffic transmitted through the wireless network over the wireless connection and the backhaul of the wireless network.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: correlating the downlink traffic to create correlated downlink traffic; and identifying the uplink data prediction based on the correlated downlink traffic.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying the uplink data prediction from traffic patterns of uplink data transmitted through the wireless network over the wireless connection and the backhaul of the wireless network.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising using one or more buffer status reports for the uplink data transmitted through the wireless network over the wireless connection and the backhaul of the wireless network to identify the uplink data prediction.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the traffic patterns of the uplink data transmitted through the wireless network are identified using machine learning.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying an estimate of an accuracy of the uplink data prediction; and providing the estimate of the accuracy of the uplink data prediction with the uplink data prediction to the backhaul scheduler to coordinate transmission of the uplink data through the backhaul based on the uplink data prediction and the accuracy of the uplink data prediction.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the estimate of the accuracy of the uplink data prediction is identified based on maintained prediction statistics of either or both past uplink traffic and current uplink traffic.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the prediction statistics include predicted arrival times of the past uplink traffic at the backhaul of the wireless network and actual arrival times of the past uplink traffic at the backhaul of the wireless network.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the estimate of the accuracy of the uplink data prediction is identified based on one or a combination of a user originating the uplink data, a device generating the uplink data, and a data type of the uplink data.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating, by the backhaul scheduler based on the uplink data prediction and before the uplink data is received at the backhaul, an uplink grant for transmitting the uplink data through the backhaul.
15. A system comprising: one or more processors; and at least one computer-readable storage medium having stored therein instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: identifying, by a wireless scheduler of a wireless network, an uplink data prediction for uplink data to transmit over a wireless connection of the wireless network, wherein the uplink data prediction is made before the uplink data is received at the backhaul and the uplink data prediction includes a prediction of at least one of an arrival time of the uplink data, an amount of traffic in the uplink data, quality of service requirements for the uplink data, a user associated with the uplink data, a traffic arrival rate of the uplink data, and a data type of the uplink data; providing the uplink data prediction to a backhaul scheduler of a backhaul of the wireless network; and coordinating the wireless scheduler with the backhaul scheduler by configuring the backhaul scheduler to coordinate transmission of the uplink data through the backhaul based on the uplink data prediction.
16. (canceled)
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising identifying the uplink data prediction from downlink traffic transmitted through the wireless network over the wireless connection and the backhaul of the wireless network.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising identifying the uplink data prediction from traffic patterns of uplink data transmitted through the wireless network over the wireless connection and the backhaul of the wireless network.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: identifying an estimate of an accuracy of the uplink data prediction; and providing the estimate of the accuracy of the uplink data prediction with the uplink data prediction to the backhaul scheduler to coordinate transmission of the uplink data through the backhaul based on the uplink data prediction and the accuracy of the uplink data prediction.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored therein instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: identifying, by a wireless scheduler of an IEEE 802.11ax compliant wireless network, an uplink data prediction for uplink data to transmit over a wireless connection of the wireless network, wherein the uplink data prediction is made before the uplink data is received at the backhaul and the uplink data prediction includes a prediction of at least one of an arrival time of the uplink data, an amount of traffic in the uplink data, quality of service requirements for the uplink data, a user associated with the uplink data, a traffic arrival rate of the uplink data, and a data type of the uplink data; providing the uplink data prediction to a backhaul scheduler of a backhaul of the wireless network; coordinating the wireless scheduler with the backhaul scheduler by configuring the backhaul scheduler to coordinate transmission of the uplink data through the backhaul based on the uplink data prediction; and receiving the uplink data at the backhaul for transmission through the backhaul based on the uplink data prediction.
21. The system of claim 15, wherein the instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising generating, by the backhaul scheduler based on the uplink data prediction, an uplink grant for transmitting the uplink data through the backhaul.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the uplink grant is generated before the uplink data is received at the backhaul.
</claims>
</document>
