<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q50/20,G09B5/12,G09B7/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COURSERA
</assignee>

<inventors>
SANDS, EMILY GLASSBERG
Bakthavachalam, Vinod
HICKEY, Alan
Reddick, Rachel
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72917288
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USING A GLICKO-BASED ALGORITHM TO MEASURE IN-COURSE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described by which learner skill can be estimated over time, even in the presence of large data sets. A rating system can be used in which a learner's submission of a course assessment can be interpreted as a single match, where the learner and the course assessment are competing against each other. This approach can be applied to online learning platforms that include very many learners who have submitted assignments very many times in many courses. The described techniques provide reliable estimates of assessment difficulty and learner ability. The described scoring framework may be used as a basis for various applications that account for a learner's ability, such as adaptive diagnostic tests and personalized recommendations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer program product, the computer program product being tangibly embodied on a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium and comprising instructions that, when executed by at least one computing device, are configured to cause the at least one computing device to: assign an assessment rating to an assessment corresponding to a skill; administer the assessment to a plurality of learners using an online learning platform to assign each learner of the plurality of learners a corresponding assessment score that indicates either passing or failing the assessment; execute a first execution of a ratings algorithm to assign a learner skill rating to each learner of the plurality of learners with respect to the skill, based on the assessment rating and the corresponding assessment score, and to assign an updated assessment rating to the assessment, wherein the rating algorithm defines each assessment administration as a match between the assessment and the corresponding learner that is won by the learner when the assessment score is passing and won by the assessment when the assessment score is failing; and execute a second execution of the ratings algorithm in which the updated assessment rating is held fixed to assign an updated learner skill rating to each learner of the plurality of learners with respect to the skill.
2. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed, are further configured to cause the at least one computing device to: execute the ratings algorithm including assigning an uncertainty to each learner skill rating and each assessment rating.
3. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the rating algorithm is a version of the Glicko rating algorithm.
4. The computer program product of claim 3, wherein the instructions, when executed, are further configured to cause the at least one computing device to: define the match for each learner and assessment as a single administration of the assessment to the learner.
5. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed, are further configured to cause the at least one computing device to: administer the assessment to a second plurality of learners using the online learning platform to assign each learner of the second plurality of learners a corresponding assessment score; and execute the second execution of the ratings algorithm including the plurality of learners and the second plurality of learners.
6. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the assessment is associated with a course, and the skill is stored in conjunction with the course.
7. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed, are further configured to cause the at least one computing device to: provide each updated learner skill rating to each corresponding learner of the plurality of learners.
8. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed, are further configured to cause the at least one computing device to: extract questions from course content to form a question bank for an adaptive diagnostic assessment for a learner, based on the updated assessment scores.
9. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising: assigning an assessment rating to an assessment corresponding to a skill; administering the assessment to a plurality of learners using an online learning platform to assign each learner of the plurality of learners a corresponding assessment score that indicates either passing or failing the assessment; executing a first execution of a ratings algorithm to assign a learner skill rating to each learner of the plurality of learners with respect to the skill, based on the assessment rating and the corresponding assessment score, and to assign an updated assessment rating to the assessment, wherein the rating algorithm defines each assessment administration as a match between the assessment and the corresponding learner that is won by the learner when the assessment score is passing and won by the assessment when the assessment score is failing; and executing a second execution of the ratings algorithm in which the updated assessment rating is held fixed to assign an updated learner skill rating to each learner of the plurality of learners with respect to the skill.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: executing the ratings algorithm including assigning an uncertainty to each learner skill rating and each assessment rating.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the rating algorithm is a version of the Glicko rating algorithm.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: defining the match for each learner and assessment as a single administration of the assessment to the learner.
13. The method of claim 9, further comprising: administering the assessment to a second plurality of learners using the online learning platform to assign each learner of the second plurality of learners a corresponding assessment score; and executing the second execution of the ratings algorithm including the plurality of learners and the second plurality of learners.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the assessment is associated with a course, and the skill is stored in conjunction with the course.
15. The method of claim 9, further comprising: providing each updated learner skill rating to each corresponding learner of the plurality of learners.
16. The method of claim 9, further comprising: extracting questions from course content to form a question bank for an adaptive diagnostic assessment for a learner, based on the updated assessment scores.
17. A system comprising: at least one memory including instructions; and at least one processor that is operably coupled to the at least one memory and that is arranged and configured to execute the instructions and thereby cause the at least one processor to assign an assessment rating to an assessment corresponding to a skill; administer the assessment to a plurality of learners using an online learning platform to assign each learner of the plurality of learners a corresponding assessment score that indicates either passing or failing the assessment; execute a first execution of a ratings algorithm to assign a learner skill rating to each learner of the plurality of learners with respect to the skill, based on the assessment rating and the corresponding assessment score, and to assign an updated assessment rating to the assessment, wherein the rating algorithm defines each assessment administration as a match between the assessment and the corresponding learner that is won by the learner when the assessment score is passing and won by the assessment when the assessment score is failing; and execute a second execution of the ratings algorithm in which the updated assessment rating is held fixed to assign an updated learner skill rating to each learner of the plurality of learners with respect to the skill.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the instructions, when executed, further cause the at least one processor to execute the ratings algorithm including assigning an uncertainty to each learner skill rating and each assessment rating.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the rating algorithm is a version of the Glicko rating algorithm.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the instructions, when executed, further cause the at least one processor to: define the match for each learner and assessment as a single administration of the assessment to the learner.
</claims>
</document>
