<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61M1/10,A61M1/12,A61N1/362,A61N1/365,A61N1/39
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ABIOMED
</assignee>

<inventors>
EL KATERJI, AHMAD
TAN, QING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71575827
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BLOOD PUMP WITH CAPABILITY OF ELECTROCARDIOGRAM (EKG) MONITORING, DEFIBRILLATION AND PACING
</title>

<abstract>
A blood pump system includes a catheter, a pump housing disposed distal of a distal end of the catheter, a rotor positioned at least partially in the pump housing, a controller, and an electrode coupled a distal region of the blood pump. The electrode can be used to sense electrocardiogram (EKG) signals and transmit the signals to a controller of the blood pump. The operation of the blood pump can be adjusted based on the EKG signal and on cardiac parameters derived from the EKG signal. Further, the controller can determine a need for defibrillation or pacing of the patient's heart based on the signal and can administer treatment with electrical shocks to the heart via the electrode coupled to the blood pump. The use of an electrode with a blood pump already in place in the heart allows for more efficient and safer treatment of serious cardiac conditions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An intravascular blood pump system comprising: an intravascular blood pump comprising: a catheter having a proximal end and a distal end; a pump housing coupled to the distal end of the catheter; a rotor positioned at least partially in the pump housing, the rotor configured to be rotatably driven; and a cannula coupled to the pump housing; and an electrode coupled to the intravascular blood pump, and configured to sense an electrocardiogram (EKG) signal of a patient's heart.
2. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 1, further comprising: a controller communicatively coupled to the intravascular blood pump and the electrode, and configured to control a level of support provided by the intravascular blood pump by controlling a speed at which the rotor is rotatably driven.
3. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 1, wherein the intravascular blood pump further comprises a flexible projection coupled to a distal end of the cannula, and wherein the electrode is positioned on the flexible projection.
4. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 1, wherein the intravascular blood pump further comprises a drive cable extending from the rotor through the catheter to the proximal end of the catheter, the drive cable being configured to rotatably drive the rotor.
5. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 1, wherein the intravascular blood pump further comprises a motor positioned within the pump housing, the motor configured to rotatably drive the rotor.
6. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 2, wherein the controller is further configured to: process an EKG signal from the electrode; and determine a left ventricular end diastolic pressure (LVEDP) based on the EKG signal.
7. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 6, wherein the controller is further configured to display at least one of the EKG signal and the LVEDP on a display.
8. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 2, wherein the controller is further configured to: process a first EKG signal from the electrode; determine a first LVEDP based on the first EKG signal; store the first LVEDP in memory; process a second EKG signal from the electrode; determine a second LVEDP based on the first EKG signal; compare the second LVEDP to the first LVEDP accessed in the memory; and determine a difference between the second LVEDP and the first LVEDP.
9. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 8, wherein the controller is further configured to determine a support recommendation for the intravascular blood pump based on the difference between the second LVEDP and the first LVEDP.
10. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 9, wherein the controller is further configured to determine a support recommendation to increase the support provided by the intravascular blood pump when the difference between the second LVEDP and the first LVEDP is positive.
11. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 9, wherein the controller is further configured to determine a support recommendation to decrease the support provided by the intravascular blood pump when the difference between the second LVEDP and the first LVEDP is negative.
12. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 9, wherein the controller is further configured to display the support recommendation on a display.
13. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 9, wherein the controller is further configured to automatically implement the support recommendation by adjusting the speed at which the rotor is rotatably driven.
14. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 2, wherein the controller is further configured to: process an EKG signal from the electrode; and determine a recommendation to provide pacing or defibrillation of the patient's heart based on the EKG signal.
15. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 14, wherein the controller is further configured to determine the recommendation based at least in part on whether the EKG signal indicates that the patient is experiencing an irregular heartbeat.
16. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 14, wherein the controller is further configured to display the recommendation on a display.
17. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 14, wherein the electrode is further configured to provide pacing or defibrillation of the patient's heart by producing an electric charge within the patient's heart.
18. The intravascular blood pump system of claim 17, wherein the controller is further configured to automatically implement the recommendation by causing the electrode to produce an electric charge within the patient's heart.
19. A method of providing circulatory support to a patient with an intravascular blood pump, the method comprising: controlling, by one or more processors of a controller, an intravascular blood pump to pump at a first pump speed; receiving, by the one or more processors, an electrocardiogram (EKG) signal of the patient's heart from an electrode coupled to the intravascular blood pump; determining, by the one or more processors, a second pump speed based on the EKG signal, the second pump speed being different than the first pump speed; and controlling, by the one or more processors, the intravascular blood pump to pump at the second pump speed.
20. A method of providing pacing or defibrillation of a patient's heart while providing circulatory support to the patient with an intravascular blood pump, the method comprising: controlling, by one or more processors of a controller, an intravascular blood pump to pump at a first pump speed; receiving, by the one or more processors, an electrocardiogram (EKG) signal of the patient's heart from an electrode coupled to the intravascular blood pump; determining, by the one or more processors, a need for pacing or defibrillation of the patient's heart based on the EKG signal; and controlling, by the one or more processors, the electrode to produce an electric charge within the patient's heart to provide pacing or defibrillation of the patient's heart.
</claims>
</document>
