<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SCHLUMBERGER TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABUBAKAR, ARIA
GUPTA, SUPRIYA
ROBERTS, TIMOTHY J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65723084
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROBABILISTIC OIL PRODUCTION FORECASTING
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes receiving historical well-production data, and determining curve parameters based on the historical well production data. Determining the curve parameters includes accounting for uncertainty. The method also includes determining curve fits for the historical data based on the curve parameters using a plurality of models, calculating accuracy for each of the models based on a comparison of the curve fits to the well-production data, comparing the accuracy for each of the models using an information criteria that accounts for uncertainty, selecting one of the models based on the comparison, and determining an estimated ultimate recovery (EUR) for the well using at least the selected one of the models.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving historical well-production data; determining curve parameters based on the historical well production data, wherein determining the curve parameters includes accounting for uncertainty; determining curve fits for the historical data based on the curve parameters using a plurality of models; calculating accuracy for each of the models based on a comparison of the curve fits to the well-production data; comparing the accuracy for each of the models using an information criteria that accounts for uncertainty; selecting one of the models based on the comparison; and determining an estimated ultimate recovery (EUR) for the well using at least the selected one of the models.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining outliers in the historical well data.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining one or more historical behavior-changing events in the data; segmenting the data based on the behavior-changing events; and determining a posterior distribution of EUR based on the historical data that occurs at times after the one or more historical behavior-changing events that occurs last-in-time.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the curve fits comprises: receiving a priori information about the historical data; determining a posteriori distributions of curve parameters based in part on the a priori information using a Bayesian inference; determining maximum a posteriori estimates representing the mode of the posterior distribution; and characterizing the distribution of the parameters to approximate a closed form solution for curve-fit parameters using a sampling scheme.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: predicting an effect of two or more types of workovers on EUR; and selecting one of the two or more types of workovers based on the predicted effect.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein comparing the accuracy for each of the models comprises calculating a Bayesian Information Criteria (BIC) value for each of the models, wherein the BIC value is based on a log-likelihood of the model, a number of estimated parameters, and a number of data points.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the EUR comprises determining a posterior distribution of EUR values that accounts for uncertainty.
8. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving historical well-production data; determining curve parameters based on the historical well production data, wherein determining the curve parameters includes accounting for uncertainty; determining curve fits for the historical data based on the curve parameters using a plurality of models; calculating accuracy for each of the models based on a comparison of the curve fits to the well-production data; comparing the accuracy for each of the models using an information criteria that accounts for uncertainty; selecting one of the models based on the comparison; and determining an estimated ultimate recovery (EUR) for the well using at least the selected one of the models.
9. The medium of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise determining outliers in the historical well data.
10. The medium of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: determining one or more historical behavior-changing events in the data; segmenting the data based on the behavior-changing events; and determining a posterior distribution of EUR based on the historical data that occurs at times after the one or more historical behavior-changing events that occurs last-in-time.
11. The medium of claim 8, wherein determining the curve fits comprises: receiving a priori information about the historical data; determining a posteriori distributions of curve parameters based in part on the a priori information using a Bayesian inference; determining maximum a posteriori estimates representing the mode of the posterior distribution; and characterizing the distribution of the parameters to approximate a closed form solution for curve-fit parameters using a sampling scheme.
12. The medium of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: predicting an effect of two or more types of workovers on EUR; and selecting one of the two or more types of workovers based on the predicted effect.
13. The medium of claim 8, wherein comparing the accuracy for each of the models comprises calculating a Bayesian Information Criteria (BIC) value for each of the models, wherein the BIC value is based on a log-likelihood of the model, a number of estimated parameters, and a number of data points.
14. The medium of claim 8, wherein determining the EUR comprises determining a posterior distribution of EUR values that accounts for uncertainty.
15. A computing system, comprising: one or more processors; a memory system including one or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by at least one of the one or more processors, cause the computing system to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving historical well-production data; determining curve parameters based on the historical well production data, wherein determining the curve parameters includes accounting for uncertainty; determining curve fits for the historical data based on the curve parameters using a plurality of models; calculating accuracy for each of the models based on a comparison of the curve fits to the well-production data; comparing the accuracy for each of the models using an information criteria that accounts for uncertainty; selecting one of the models based on the comparison; and determining an estimated ultimate recovery (EUR) for the well using at least the selected one of the models.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise determining outliers in the historical well data.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: determining one or more historical behavior-changing events in the data; segmenting the data based on the behavior-changing events; and determining a posterior distribution of EUR based on the historical data that occurs at times after the one or more historical behavior-changing events that occurs last-in-time.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein determining the curve fits comprises: receiving a priori information about the historical data; determining a posteriori distributions of curve parameters based in part on the a priori information using a Bayesian inference; determining maximum a posteriori estimates representing the mode of the posterior distribution; and characterizing the distribution of the parameters to approximate a closed form solution for curve-fit parameters using a sampling scheme.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: predicting an effect of two or more types of workovers on EUR; and selecting one of the two or more types of workovers based on the predicted effect.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein comparing the accuracy for each of the models comprises calculating a Bayesian Information Criteria (BIC) value for each of the models, wherein the BIC value is based on a log-likelihood of the model, a number of estimated parameters, and a number of data points.
</claims>
</document>
