<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/41,G06F16/483,G06F16/583
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COMCAST CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
YOUNESSIAN, EHSAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70727847
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR INDEXING A CONTENT ASSET
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems are described for indexing a content asset (e.g., video, a program, a show, etc.). A plurality of keyframes may be generated for a portion of the content asset. Based on the plurality of keyframes, a number of attributes (e.g., a quantity of faces, objects, advertisements, etc.) of the portion of the content asset may be determined/identified. A segment label may be associated with the portion of the content asset based on the determined attributes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining, from a portion of a content asset, a plurality of keyframes; determining, based on the plurality of keyframes, a quantity of attributes; and determining, based on the quantity of attributes satisfying a threshold, a segment label for the portion of the content asset.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the quantity of attributes comprises one or more of a quantity of faces associated with the plurality of keyframes, a quantity of objects associated with the plurality of keyframes, or a quantity of advertisements associated with the plurality of keyframes.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the plurality of keyframes comprises: determining, for each frame of a plurality of frames of the content asset, a color histogram of a plurality of color histograms; and determining, based on a color histogram of the a plurality of color histograms comprising a distribution of color that satisfies a threshold, that a respective frame of the plurality of frames is a keyframe of the plurality of keyframes.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the plurality of keyframes comprises determining, based on a quantity of changes between a previous frame of a plurality of frames, a current frame of the plurality of frames, and a consecutive frame of the plurality of frames satisfying a threshold, that the current frame is a keyframe of the plurality of keyframes.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the quantity of attributes comprises facial recognition.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the quantity of attributes comprises object identification.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein determining the segment label comprises applying, based on one or more objects identified by the object identification, an image classifier to each keyframe of the plurality of keyframes.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein determining the segment label comprises determining, based on a quantity of matches between one or more objects of a segment profile and the one or more objects identified by the object identification satisfying a threshold, the segment label.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the quantity of attributes comprises one or more of audio content or closed caption information, wherein determining the segment label comprises determining, based on one or more of the audio content or the closed caption information, the segment label.
10. A method comprising: determining, from a portion of a content asset, a plurality of keyframes; determining, based on the plurality of keyframes, a first plurality of objects; determining, based on a quantity of matches between the first plurality of objects and a second plurality of objects satisfying a threshold, a segment profile; and generating metadata, wherein the metadata indicates an association between the segment profile and the portion of the content asset.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein determining the first plurality of objects comprises applying an image classifier to the plurality of keyframes.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein determining the first plurality of objects comprises: determining, based on object identification, for each object of the first plurality of objects, a confidence score of a plurality of confidence scores, wherein the plurality of confidence scores indicate an association to one or more identifiable objects; and determining that each confidence score of the plurality of confidence scores satisfies a threshold.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein determining the plurality of keyframes comprises determining, based on a quantity of changes between a previous frame of a plurality of frames, a current frame of the plurality of frames, and a consecutive frame of the plurality of frames satisfying a threshold, that the current frame is a keyframe of the plurality of keyframes.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein determining the plurality of confidence scores comprises: generating a data structure comprising a plurality of dimensions, wherein each dimension of the plurality of dimensions corresponds to a respective identifiable object of the one or more identifiable objects; and storing each confidence score of the plurality of confidence scores in a corresponding dimension of the plurality of dimensions.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising: determining, based on the plurality of keyframes and facial recognition, a quantity of faces associated with the portion of the content asset; and determining, based on the quantity of faces, the segment profile.
16. A method comprising: determining one or more keywords of a natural language description of a segment profile, wherein the one or more keywords are associated with a plurality of identifiable objects of an image classifier; determining, from a portion of a content asset, a plurality of keyframes; determining, based on the plurality of keyframes and the image classifier, a plurality of objects from the portion of the content asset; determining that the plurality of objects and the one or more keywords of the segment profile have a degree of similarity that satisfies a threshold; and generating metadata, wherein the metadata indicates an association between a segment label of the segment profile and the portion of the content asset.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the metadata further indicates an association between a plurality of segment labels and a plurality of portions of the content asset, wherein the segment label of the segment profile is a segment label of the plurality of segment labels and the portion of the content asset is a portion of the plurality of portions of the content asset.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the segment profile further indicates a quantity of faces associated with the portion of the content asset.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein determining the plurality of keyframes comprises: determining, for each frame of a plurality of frames of the content asset, a color histogram of a plurality of color histograms; and determining, based on a color histogram of the a plurality of color histograms comprising a distribution of color that satisfies a threshold, that a respective frame of the plurality of frames is a keyframe of the plurality of keyframes.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein determining the plurality of keyframes comprises determining, based on a quantity of changes between a previous frame of a plurality of frames, a current frame of the plurality of frames, and a consecutive frame of the plurality of frames satisfying a threshold, that the current frame is a keyframe of the plurality of keyframes.
</claims>
</document>
