<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/02,G06Q40/02,H04L12/851,H04L12/859,H04L12/911,H04L12/927
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALLEN, MORGAN S.
GATCHALIAN, GILBERT
SANGHVI, SITEN
SHANNON, STEPHEN T.
STAHLHUT, WILLIAM AUGUST
Gottumukkala, Kamesh R.
Rice, Christopher L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74042928
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EDGE-NODE CONTROLLED RESOURCE DISTRIBUTION
</title>

<abstract>
This application describes apparatus and methods for using edge-computing to control resource distribution among access channels, such as a retail banking center. Edge-nodes may be configured to move a product display in response to detected or expected customer traffic flow in or near a retail location. Edge-nodes may be configured to redirect resources provided by a cloud computing environment to or away from the retail location. Based on customer traffic flow, edge-nodes may direct customers/resources to a retail location and ensure the retail location provides a predetermined quality of service.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An edge-node computing system comprising: a cloud-based system for distributing computing resources among a plurality of banking centers; a first plurality of edge-nodes configured to sense and determine a volume of customer traffic in a target banking center; and a second plurality of edge-nodes configured to sense customer traffic within a predetermined distance of the target banking center; wherein the first and second plurality of edge-nodes collectively execute a consensus protocol that: determines a level of interest in the target banking center based on data sensed by each of the edge-nodes; determines a level of computing resources needed to provide a predetermined quality of service for the level of interest; and routes a flow of computing resources from the cloud based system to the target banking center such that the target banking center is provided access to the level of computing resources needed to provide the predetermined quality of service.
2. The edge-node computing system of claim 1, wherein the target banking center is a first target banking center, and to maintain the predetermined quality of service at the first target banking center, the consensus protocol is configured to redirect the customer traffic within the predetermined distance to a second target banking center.
3. The edge-node computing system of claim 2, wherein before redirecting the customer traffic, the consensus protocol is configured to determine that the second target banking center is configured to provide the predetermined quality of service.
4. The edge-node computing system of claim 1, wherein the target banking center is a first target banking center, and based on maintaining the predetermined quality of service, the consensus protocol is configured to redirect cash resources from a second target banking center to the first target banking center before an anticipated arrival at the first target banking center of the customer traffic within the predetermined distance.
5. The edge-node computing system of claim 1, wherein the target banking center is a first target banking center, and based on maintaining the predetermined quality level of service, the consensus protocol is configured to redirect human resources from a second target banking center to the first banking center before an anticipated arrival at the first banking center of the customer traffic within the predetermined distance.
6. The edge-node computing system of claim 1, wherein the banking center is a first target banking center, and based on the predetermined quality of service, the consensus protocol is configured to redirect computing resources from a target second banking center to the first target banking center.
7. The edge-node computing system of claim 1, wherein: the first plurality of edge-nodes comprises: a motion sensor; a temperature sensor; a pressure sensor; and a capacitive touch sensor; and the second plurality of edge-nodes comprises: a pedometer sensor; a gyroscope sensor; an accelerometer sensor; and a location sensor.
8. An edge-node computing system comprising: a moveable product display located at a first position within a banking center; a first edge-node configured to sense a volume of customer traffic in the banking center; a second edge-node configured to sense a volume of customer traffic attracted by the moveable product display; and a third edge-node embedded in the moveable product display and configured to sense customer engagement with the product display; wherein: the first, second and third edge-nodes collectively execute a consensus protocol that: based on the collective data sensed by each the edge-nodes, determines a default level of interest in the moveable product display at the first position; calculates a second position of the product display within the banking center that will increase the default level of interest; and issues instructions to the moveable product display that moves the moveable product display from the first position to the second position.
9. The edge-node computing system of claim 8, wherein each edge-node is configured to transmit sensed data to a cloud computing environment and, based on the collective sensed data, the cloud computing environment is configured to determine a target location within the banking center that will increase the default level of interest.
10. The edge-node computing system of claim 9 wherein, when there is a conflict between the target location determined by the cloud computing environment and the second position determined by the consensus protocol, the edge-node computing system moves the moveable product display to the target location.
11. The edge-node computing system of claim 9, wherein the banking center is one of a plurality of banking centers, and the cloud computing environment is configured to determine the target location based on sensed data received from edge-nodes within the plurality of banking centers.
12. The edge-node computing system of claim 8, wherein the moveable product display is configured to change products included in the moveable display based on the collective data sensed by the edge-nodes.
13. The edge-node computing system of claim 8, wherein the second location of the moveable product display is configured to change based on a time of day.
14. The edge-node computing system of claim 8, wherein the second location of the moveable product display is configured to change based on transactions executed by customers in the banking center during a predetermined time period.
15. A method of distributing computing resources among a plurality of banking centers, the method comprising: positioning a moveable product display at a banking center in a first location; using a first group of edge-nodes, determining a volume of customer traffic in the banking center; using a second group of edge-nodes, determining a volume of customer traffic within a predetermined distance of the banking center; and executing a consensus protocol among members of the first and second groups of edge-nodes and: determining a level of interest in the moveable product display; determining a level of computing resources needed to provide a predetermined quality of service for the level of interest; based on the level of interest, determining a target location of the moveable product display within the banking center; moving the moveable product display to the target location; and routing computing resources to the banking center such that the banking center is provided access to the level of computing resources needed to provide the predetermined quality of service.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein the banking center is a first banking center, the routing of computing resources comprises configuring a cloud computing environment to divert computing resources from a second banking center to the first banking center.
17. The method of claim 15 further comprising: using a third group of edge-nodes embedded in the moveable product display, sensing customer engagement with the moveable product display; and executing the consensus protocol among members of the first, second and third groups of edge-nodes.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the moveable product display provides access to a mix of products, the method further comprising, based on the level of interest, changing the mix of products.
19. The method of claim 15, routing computing resources to the banking center comprises increasing: bandwidth of network connections linking the banking center to the cloud computing environment; and processor time allocated by the cloud computing environment to the banking center.
20. The method of claim 15 further comprising routing human resources to the banking center such that the banking center is configured to provide the predetermined quality of service; wherein the routing of human resources comprises automated scheduling of the human resources.
</claims>
</document>
