<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/06,G06F9/455
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HPE (HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOHANTA, TARANISEN
UMESH, ABHIJITH
PATIL, SIDHARTH MALAKANGOUD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71516086
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MOVEMENT OF VIRTUAL MACHINE DATA ACROSS CLUSTERS OF NODES
</title>

<abstract>
In an example, Virtual Machine (VM) attributes of a first VM are received. First VM data corresponding to the first VM is to be moved from a first cluster of nodes in which the first VM data is stored. Further, a movement value of the first VM is determined based on a movement model and the VM attributes of the first VM. The movement model indicates a dependence of movement value of a VM on VM attributes of the VM. The movement value of the first VM is indicative of a rank order for movement of the first VM data among a plurality of sets of VM data to be moved, where each set of VM data corresponds to a VM.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor, the memory storing instructions executable by the processor to: receive Virtual Machine (VM) attributes of a first VM, wherein first VM data corresponding to the first VM is to be moved from a first cluster of nodes in which the first VM data is stored; and determine a movement value of the first VM based on a movement model and the VM attributes of the first VM, the movement model indicating dependence of movement value of a VM on VM attributes of the VM, wherein the movement value of the first VM is indicative of a rank order for movement of the first VM data among a plurality of sets of VM data to be moved, each set of VM data corresponding to a VM.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the VM attributes of the first VM comprises replication factor of the first VM, frequency of access of the first VM, VM type of the first VM, last access of the first VM, VM class of the first VM, and health of the first cluster, which hosts the first VM.
3. The system of claim 1, to generate the movement model, wherein the instructions are executable by the processor to: receive a plurality of sets of VM attribute data, each set of VM attribute data corresponding to a reference VM of a plurality of reference VMs and comprising: a plurality of VM attributes of the reference VM and a reference movement value of the reference VM; and model dependence of movement value of a VM on the plurality of VM attributes of the VM based on the plurality of sets of VM attribute data.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the instructions are executable by the processor to update the plurality of sets of VM attribute data with the VM attributes of the first VM and the movement value assigned to the first VM.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions are executable by the processor to: determine cluster value for each of a plurality of clusters using a cluster model, the cluster model indicating dependence of cluster value of a cluster on a plurality of attributes of the cluster; and select a target cluster from among the plurality of clusters to which the first VM data is to be moved based on respective cluster values of the plurality of clusters.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the instructions are executable by the processor to: receive a plurality of sets of cluster data, each set of cluster data corresponding to a reference cluster of a plurality of reference clusters and comprising: a plurality of cluster attributes of the reference cluster and a reference cluster value of the reference cluster; and generate the cluster model based on the plurality of sets of cluster data.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the plurality of cluster attributes comprises workload of the cluster, health of the cluster, performance of the cluster, and network speed of the cluster.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein the plurality of clusters of nodes is part of a hyperconverged system.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the movement model is one of a decision tree, a regression-based model, neural network-based model, fuzzy logic-based model, Support Vector Machines (SVM)-based model, boosted tree, random forest, and Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy Inference System (ANFIS).
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions are executable by the processor to: rank order the first VM and a second VM based on respective movement values of the first VM and the second VM, wherein second VM data corresponds to the second VM, is stored in the first cluster of nodes, and is to be moved from the first cluster of nodes; move the first VM data and the second VM data in the rank order.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the instructions are executable to initiate determination of movement values of the first VM and the second VM in response to a detection of degradation in health of the first cluster of nodes.
12. A method comprising: receiving, by a processing resource, attributes of a first VM and attributes of a second VM, wherein first VM data corresponding to the first VM and second VM data corresponding to the second VM are to be moved from a first cluster of nodes in which the first VM data and the second VM data are stored; determining, by the processing resource, a first movement value of the first VM and a second movement value of the second VM based on a movement model, the movement model indicating relationship between a movement value of a VM and attributes of the VM; and rank ordering, by the processing resource, the first VM and the second VM based on respective movement values of the first VM and the second VM for movement of the first VM data and the second VM data from the first cluster of nodes.
13. The method of claim 12, comprising: receiving a plurality of sets of VM attribute data, each set of VM attribute data corresponding to a reference VM of a plurality of reference VMs and comprising: a plurality of attributes of the reference VM and a reference movement value of the reference VM; and generating the movement model based on the plurality of sets of VM attribute data.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the attributes of the first VM comprises replication factor of the first VM, frequency of access of the first VM, VM type of the first VM, last access of the first VM, VM class of the first VM, and health of the first cluster, which hosts the first VM.
15. The method of claim 12, comprising: selecting, by the processing resource, a second cluster of nodes to which the first VM data is to be moved from among a plurality of clusters based on a first cluster value of each of the plurality of clusters; selecting, by the processing resource, a third cluster of nodes to which the second VM data is to be moved from among the plurality of clusters based on a second cluster value of each of the plurality of clusters.
16. The method of claim 15, comprising determining the first cluster value and second cluster value of each of the plurality of clusters based on a cluster model, the cluster model indicating dependence of a cluster value of a cluster corresponding to a source VM for which VM data is to be moved on a plurality of attributes of the cluster.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein each of the movement model and the cluster model is one of a decision tree, a regression-based model, neural network-based model, fuzzy logic-based model, Support Vector Machines (SVM)-based model, boosted tree, random forest, and Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy Inference System (ANFIS).
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions for facilitating movement of virtual machine (VM) data, the instructions being executable by a processing resource to: receive a plurality of sets of Virtual Machine (VM) attribute data, each set of VM attribute data corresponding to a reference VM of a plurality of reference VMs and comprising: a plurality of VM attributes of the reference VM and a reference movement value of the reference VM; generate a movement model indicating relationship between the movement value of a VM and the plurality of VM attributes of the VM based on the plurality of sets of VM attribute data; determine the movement value of a first VM based on the movement model and the plurality of VM attributes of the first VM, wherein the movement value of the first VM is indicative of a rank order for movement of first VM data corresponding to the first VM among a plurality of sets of VM data to be moved, each set of VM data corresponding to a VM; and select a cluster of nodes among a plurality of clusters of nodes to which the first VM data is to be moved based on a cluster value of each of the plurality of clusters of nodes, wherein the cluster values of the plurality of clusters of nodes are determined based on a cluster model indicating dependence of cluster value of a cluster on a plurality of cluster attributes of the cluster.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the plurality of VM attributes comprises replication factor, frequency of access, VM type, last access, VM class, and health of a cluster of nodes that hosts the VM.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein each of the movement model and the cluster model is one of a decision tree, regression-based model, neural network-based model, fuzzy logic-based model, Support Vector Machines (SVM)-based model, boosted tree, random forest, and Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy Inference System (ANFIS).
</claims>
</document>
