<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06Q10/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DAIKIN INDUSTRIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
IWAO, KAZUAKI
NARITAKE, TSUYOSHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64274487
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRODUCT INFORMATION PREPARATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A product information preparation system includes a server. The server is configured to acquire image data on a landscape, the image data being correlated with position information, recognize an image of a target product in the image data acquired, identify a position where the target product recognized is installed, based on the position information correlated with the image data, and prepare product information on the target product, the product information containing information on the position where the target product is installed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A product information preparation system comprising: a server configured to acquire image data on a landscape, the image data being correlated with position information, recognize an image of a target product in the image data acquired, identify a position where the target product recognized is installed, based on the position information correlated with the image data, and prepare product information on the target product, the product information containing information on the position where the target product is installed.
2. The product information preparation system according to claim 1, wherein the image data includes at least one of an image of a landscape captured from above and an image of a landscape captured sidewise.
3. The product information preparation system according to claim 1, wherein the server is further configured to recognize the image of the target product in the image data, based on at least one of an appearance of the target product and a recognition indication provided on the target product.
4. The product information preparation system according to claim 1, wherein the server is further configured to prepare a product installation position distribution map as the product information containing the information on the position where the target product is installed.
5. The product information preparation system according to claim 1, wherein the server is further configured to recognize the image of the target product in the image data by differentiating at least one of a plurality of items including a maker, a model, and a year of manufacture, and prepare the product information on the target product classified according to the at least one of the items.
6. The product information preparation system according to claim 1, wherein the target product is at least a part of a refrigeration apparatus that causes a refrigerant to circulate through refrigerant circuit, and the server is further configured to recognize the image of the target product in the image data by differentiating the refrigerant used in the target product, and prepare the product information on the target product classified according to the refrigerant.
7. The product information preparation system according to claim 1, wherein the server is further configured to recognize the image of the target product in the image data by differentiating a deterioration level, and prepare the product information on the target product classified according to the deterioration level.
8. The product information preparation system according to claim 1, wherein the server is further configured to recognize the image of the target product in the image data by differentiating a deterioration type, and prepare the product information on the target product classified according to the deterioration type.
9. The product information preparation system according to claim 1, wherein the server is further configured so that the product information is updated and prepared at predetermined timing.
10. The product information preparation system according to claim 2, wherein the server is further configured to recognize the image of the target product in the image data, based on at least one of an appearance of the target product and a recognition indication provided on the target product.
11. The product information preparation system according to claim 2, wherein the server is further configured to prepare a product installation position distribution map as the product information containing the information on the position where the target product is installed.
12. The product information preparation system according to claim 2, wherein the server is further configured to recognize the image of the target product in the image data by differentiating at least one of a plurality of items including a maker, a model, and a year of manufacture, and prepare the product information on the target product classified according to the at least one of the items.
13. The product information preparation system according to claim 2, wherein the target product is at least a part of a refrigeration apparatus that causes a refrigerant to circulate through refrigerant circuit, and the server is further configured to recognize the image of the target product in the image data by differentiating the refrigerant used in the target product, and prepare the product information on the target product classified according to the refrigerant.
14. The product information preparation system according to claim 2, wherein the server is further configured to recognize the image of the target product in the image data by differentiating a deterioration level, and prepare the product information on the target product classified according to the deterioration level.
15. The product information preparation system according to claim 2, wherein the server is further configured to recognize the image of the target product in the image data by differentiating a deterioration type, and prepare the product information on the target product classified according to the deterioration type.
16. The product information preparation system according to claim 3, wherein the server is further configured to prepare a product installation position distribution map as the product information containing the information on the position where the target product is installed.
17. The product information preparation system according to claim 3, wherein the server is further configured to recognize the image of the target product in the image data by differentiating at least one of a plurality of items including a maker, a model, and a year of manufacture, and prepare the product information on the target product classified according to the at least one of the items.
18. The product information preparation system according to claim 3, wherein the target product is at least a part of a refrigeration apparatus that causes a refrigerant to circulate through refrigerant circuit, and the server is further configured to recognize the image of the target product in the image data by differentiating the refrigerant used in the target product, and prepare the product information on the target product classified according to the refrigerant.
19. The product information preparation system according to claim 3, wherein the server is further configured to recognize the image of the target product in the image data by differentiating a deterioration level, and prepare the product information on the target product classified according to the deterioration level.
20. The product information preparation system according to claim 3, wherein the server is further configured to recognize the image of the target product in the image data by differentiating a deterioration type, and prepare the product information on the target product classified according to the deterioration type.
</claims>
</document>
