<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JOHNSON CONTROLS TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOYAL, SIDDHARTH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70726554
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BUILDING SYSTEM WITH SEMANTIC MODELING BASED USER INTERFACE GRAPHICS AND VISUALIZATION GENERATION
</title>

<abstract>
A building interface system for generating a custom user interface, the building interface system includes one or more memory devices configured to store instructions thereon, the instructions causing one or more processors to receive user input defining one or more graphical requirements from a user device, retrieve a semantic building system model based on the one or more graphical requirements, wherein the semantic building system model comprises semantic information describing a building system, retrieve one or more graphic templates based on the semantic building system model and the one or more graphical requirements, the one or more graphic templates providing a generic description of one or more user interface elements, generate the custom user interface based on the one or more graphic templates and the semantic building system model, and cause the user device to display the custom user interface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A building interface system for generating a custom user interface, the building interface system comprising one or more memory devices configured to store instructions thereon, the instructions causing one or more processors to: receive user input defining one or more graphical requirements from a user device; retrieve a semantic building system model based on the one or more graphical requirements, wherein the semantic building system model comprises semantic information describing a building system; retrieve one or more graphic templates based on the semantic building system model and the one or more graphical requirements, the one or more graphic templates providing a generic description of one or more user interface elements; generate the custom user interface based on the one or more graphic templates and the semantic building system model; and cause the user device to display the custom user interface.
2. The building interface system of claim 1, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to: determine whether the user input has not been received; retrieve one or more default graphic templates in response to a determination that the user input has not been received; and generate a user interface based on the one or more default graphic templates and the semantic building system model.
3. The building interface system of claim 1, wherein the one or more graphics templates are master templates for multiple implementations; wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to generate a plurality of custom user interfaces based on one or more templates and a plurality of semantic building models, wherein each of the plurality of custom interfaces is generated based on one of the plurality of semantic building models.
4. The building interface system of claim 1, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to retrieve the semantic building system model by: determining an identify of the building system based on the one or more graphical requirements of the custom user interface; and selecting the semantic building system model from a plurality of other semantic building system models based on the identity of the building system.
5. The building interface system of claim 1, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to: receive one or more modifications to the custom user interface; and update the custom user interface based on the one or more modifications.
6. The building interface system of claim 1, wherein the one or more graphic templates comprise a first template defining user interface elements for a particular type of building system, wherein the building system is the particular type of building system, wherein the semantic information comprises a node indicating the building system is the particular type of building system.
7. The building interface system of claim 1, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to receive historical user input defining feedback on previous custom user interfaces; wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to generate the custom user interface further based on the historical user input.
8. The building interface system of claim 1, wherein the one or more graphical requirements comprise an indication of a purpose of the custom user interface, wherein the indication of the purpose is at least one of a first indication of fault detection diagnostics, a second indication of system monitoring, or a third indication system visualization.
9. The building interface system of claim 1, wherein the semantic information of the semantic building system model describes the building system with a graph comprising a plurality of nodes, each node of the plurality of nodes describing a characteristic of the building system, wherein the graph further comprises a plurality of relationships, the plurality of relationships relating the plurality of nodes to an identifier of the building system.
10. The building interface system of claim 9, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to generate the custom user interface based on the one or more graphic templates and the semantic building system model based on a first characteristic of the building system by identifying the first characteristic based on a first relationship between the identifier of the building system and a first node representing the first characteristic of the building system.
11. The building interface system of claim 1, wherein the one or more memory devices store a plurality of templates comprising the one or more graphic templates, wherein the plurality of templates are predefined reusable templates.
12. The building interface system of claim 11, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to: receive second user input defining one or more second graphical requirements of a second custom user interface; retrieve a second semantic building system model comprising second semantic information describing a second building system; retrieve the one or more graphic templates based on the second semantic building system model and the one or more second graphical requirements; and generate the second custom user interface based on the one or more graphic templates and the second semantic building system model.
13. The building interface system of claim 1, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to retrieve a second semantic building system model comprising second semantic information describing a second building system different than the building system; wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to retrieve the one or more graphic templates further based on the second building system; wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to generate the custom user interface further based on the second semantic building system model.
14. The building interface system of claim 13, wherein the custom user interface comprises interface information for the building system and the second building system.
15. The building interface system of claim 13, wherein the building system and the second building system are at least one of a fire suppression system, a security system, a lighting system, or an environmental control system.
16. A method of generating a custom user interface, the method comprising: receiving, by a processing circuit, user input defining one or more graphical requirements from a user device; retrieving, by the processing circuit, a semantic building system model based on the one or more graphical requirements, wherein the semantic building system model comprises semantic information describing a building system; retrieving, by the processing circuit, one or more graphic templates based on the semantic building system model and the one or more graphical requirements, the one or more graphic templates providing a generic description of one or more user interface elements; generating, by the processing circuit, the custom user interface based on the one or more graphic templates and the semantic building system model; and causing, by the processing circuit, the user device to display the custom user interface.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein retrieving, by the processing circuit, the semantic building system model comprises: determining, by the processing circuit, an identify of the building system based on the one or more graphical requirements of the custom user interface; and selecting, by the processing circuit, the semantic building system model from a plurality of other semantic building system models based on the identity of the building system.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the one or more graphic templates comprise a first template defining user interface elements for a particular type of building system, wherein the building system is the particular type of building system, wherein the semantic information comprises a node indicating the building system is the particular type of building system.
19. A system for generating a custom user interface, the system comprising: one or more memory devices configured to store instructions thereon; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to: receive user input defining one or more graphical requirements from a user device; retrieve a semantic building system model based on the one or more graphical requirements, wherein the semantic building system model comprises semantic information describing a building system, wherein the semantic information of the semantic building system model describes the building system with a graph comprising a plurality of nodes, each node of the plurality of nodes describing a characteristic of the building system, wherein the graph further comprises a plurality of relationships, the plurality of relationships relating the plurality of nodes to an identifier of the building system; retrieve one or more graphic templates based on the semantic building system model and the one or more graphical requirements, the one or more graphic templates providing a generic description of one or more user interface elements; generate the custom user interface based on the one or more graphic templates and the semantic building system model based on a first characteristic of the building system by identifying the first characteristic based on a first relationship between the identifier of the building system and a first node representing the first characteristic of the building system; and cause the user device to display the custom user interface.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the system is at least one of: a local system located within one or more physical building; or a remote processing system located outside the one or more physical building.
</claims>
</document>
