<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/426,A63F13/52,A63F13/837
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TENCENT TECHNOLOGY (SHENZHEN) COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SUN, Da Jia
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63805932
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ACCESSORY SWITCH METHOD AND APPARATUS IN VIRTUAL ENVIRONMENT, DEVICE, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
An attachment switching method, apparatus and a storage medium are provided. The method includes displaying, by the terminal, a first interface, the first interface including an image of the virtual environment observed by a virtual object, the virtual object holding a virtual gun, and a primary slot of the virtual gun being equipped with a first attachment; receiving, by the terminal, an attachment switching operation; and switching, by the terminal, the first attachment in the primary slot to a second attachment in a secondary slot according to the attachment switching operation, the primary slot and the secondary slot being the same type of gun attachment slots of the virtual gun.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An attachment switching method in a virtual environment, performed by a terminal, the method comprising: displaying, by the terminal, a first interface, the first interface comprising an image of the virtual environment observed by a virtual object, the virtual object holding a virtual gun, and a primary slot of the virtual gun being equipped with a first attachment; receiving, by the terminal, an attachment switching operation; and switching, by the terminal, the first attachment in the primary slot to a second attachment in a secondary slot according to the attachment switching operation, the primary slot and the secondary slot being the same type of gun attachment slots of the virtual gun.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first attachment is identified by a first attachment identifier and the second attachment is identified by a second attachment identifier, and wherein the switching the first attachment in the primary slot to the second attachment in the secondary slot comprises: obtaining, by the terminal, the second attachment identifier corresponding to the secondary slot; and modifying, by the terminal, the second attachment identifier to correspond to the first attachment identifier of the primary slot.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the receiving the attachment switching operation comprises: receiving a shortcut key operating signal from a user; and determining that the attachment switching operation is received based on a shortcut key combination corresponding to the shortcut key operating signal being a target shortcut key combination.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first interface further comprises an attachment switching control interface, and wherein the receiving an attachment switching operation comprises determining that the attachment switching operation is received based on receiving a touch signal on the attachment switching control interface.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein after the receiving the attachment switching operation, the method further comprises: displaying a second interface, the second interface comprising an image of the virtual environment observed by the virtual object, the virtual object holding the virtual gun, and the primary slot of the virtual gun being equipped with the second attachment.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the primary slot and the secondary slot are slots used for assembling a sight, wherein the first attachment is a first sight, and the second attachment is a second sight, wherein the displaying the first interface further comprises: receiving an aiming down sight operation, the aiming down sight operation being used for observing the virtual environment through the first sight in the primary slot and displaying the first interface according to the first sight, the first interface comprising the virtual environment that is magnified according to a magnification of the first sight, and wherein the displaying the second interface further comprises displaying the second interface according to the second sight, the second interface comprising the virtual environment that is magnified according to a magnification of the second sight.
7. The method according to claim 5, wherein the displaying the first interface further comprises displaying the first interface according to a third-person viewing angle of the virtual object, and displaying the virtual gun, and the assembled first attachment on the virtual gun, and wherein the displaying the second interface further comprises displaying the second interface according to the third-person viewing angle of the virtual object, and displaying the virtual gun on which attachment switching is performed, and the assembled second attachment being displayed on the virtual gun on which attachment switching is performed.
8. The method according to claim 5, further comprising displaying switching prompt information in the first interface, the switching prompt information indicating information of a status of the attachment switching operation.
9. The method according to claim 5, further comprising displaying switching success information in the second interface based on the first attachment in the primary slot being switched to the second attachment in the secondary slot, the switching success information including attachment information of the second attachment that is switched to the primary slot.
10. The method according to claim 1, wherein, before the displaying the first interface, the method further comprises receiving a first assembling operation, and assembling the first attachment to the primary slot according to the first assembling operation.
11. The method according to claim 1, wherein, before the displaying the first interface, the method further comprises receiving a first picking-up operation, the first picking-up operation being used for picking up the first attachment and assembling the first attachment to the primary slot automatically according to the first picking-up operation.
12. The method according to claim 10, wherein, before the receiving the attachment switching operation, the method further comprises determining a default attachment of the virtual gun as the second attachment in the secondary slot.
13. The method according to claim 10, wherein, before the receiving the attachment switching operation, the method further comprises receiving a second assembling operation and assembling the second attachment to the secondary slot according to the second assembling operation.
14. The method according to claim 11, wherein, before the receiving the attachment switching operation, the method further comprises receiving a second picking-up operation, the second picking-up operation being used for picking up the second attachment and assembling the second attachment to the secondary slot automatically according to the second picking-up operation.
15. An attachment switching apparatus, comprising: at least one memory storing computer program code; and at least one processor configured to access the computer program and operate as instructed by the computer program code, the computer program code comprising: display code configured to cause the at least one processor to display a first interface, the first interface comprising an image of a virtual environment observed by a virtual object, the virtual object holding a virtual gun, and a primary slot of the virtual gun being equipped with a first attachment; receiving code configured to cause the at least one processor to receive an attachment switching operation; and switching code configured to cause the at least one processor to switch the first attachment in the primary slot to a second attachment in a secondary slot according to the attachment switching operation, the primary slot and the secondary slot being the same type of gun attachment slots of the virtual gun.
16. The attachment switching apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the first attachment is identified by a first attachment identifier and the second attachment is identified by a second attachment identifier, and wherein the switching code further comprises: reading code configured to cause the at least one processor to obtain the second attachment identifier corresponding to the secondary slot according to the attachment switching operation; and modification code configured to cause the at least one processor to modify the second attachment identifier to correspond to the first attachment identifier.
17. The attachment switching apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the receiving code is further configured to cause the at least one processor to: receive a shortcut key operating signal from a user, and determine that the attachment switching operation is received based on a shortcut key combination corresponding to the shortcut key operating signal being a target shortcut key combination.
18. The attachment switching apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the display code is further configured to cause the at least one processor to, after receiving the attachment switching operation, display a second interface, the second interface comprising an image of the virtual environment observed by the virtual object, the virtual object holding the virtual gun, and the primary slot of the virtual gun being equipped with the second attachment.
19. The attachment switching apparatus according to claim 18, wherein the primary slot and the secondary slot are slots used for assembling a sight, wherein the first attachment is a first sight, and the second attachment is a second sight, and wherein the display code is further configured to cause the at least one processor to: receive an aiming down sight operation, the aiming down sight operation being used for observing the virtual environment through the first sight in the primary slot and display the first interface according to the first sight, the first interface further comprising the virtual environment that is magnified according to a magnification of the first sight; and display the second interface according to the second sight, the second interface further comprising the virtual environment that is magnified according to a magnification of the second sight.
20. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer-readable code, the computer-readable code, when executed by one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to: display a first interface, the first interface comprising an image of a virtual environment observed by a virtual object, the virtual object holding a virtual gun, and a primary slot of the virtual gun being equipped with a first attachment; receive an attachment switching operation; and switch the first attachment in the primary slot to a second attachment in a secondary slot according to the attachment switching operation, the primary slot and the secondary slot being the same type of gun attachment slots of the virtual gun.
</claims>
</document>
