<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F40/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, NAMKOO
LEE, YESEUL
NOH, Eunchung
CHOI, Jisun
LEE, Kwanho
KIM, Hannam
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72749118
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC DEVICE FOR GENERATING NATURAL LANGUAGE RESPONSE AND METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes an output device, at least one processor operatively connected to the output device, and a memory operatively connected to the at least one processor. The memory may store instructions that cause at least one processor to output a natural language response based on main information selected from raw data depending on a context. Other various embodiments as understood from the specification are also possible.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device comprising: an output device; at least one processor operatively connected to the output device; and a memory operatively connected to the at least one processor, wherein the memory is configured to store instructions that, when executed, cause the at least one processor to: detect occurrence of an event, determine a query corresponding to the event in response to the occurrence of the event, obtain raw data based on at least part of the determined query, determine a main information condition table for defining a condition for selecting data, based on context information associated with the event, select main information from the obtained raw data, based on the main information condition table, and output a natural language response generated based on the selected main information, through the output device.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the main information condition table includes at least one data field item and a priority determination condition corresponding to the respective at least one data field item.
3. The electronic device of claim 2, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: determine a main information candidate list including at least one value corresponding to the at least one data field item, and select the main information among the at least one value based on the priority determination condition.
4. The electronic device of claim 3, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: compare the at least one value with the priority determination condition, determine a priority for the respective at least one value, based on a result of the comparison, and select the main information among the at least one value based on the determined priority.
5. The electronic device of claim 4, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: when the number of fields of data including the main information exceeds a specified value, exclude a value of at least one field from the selected main information, based on the determined priority.
6. The electronic device of claim 1, further comprising: an input device, wherein the event includes entering a natural language input via the input device, and wherein the instructions cause the at least one processor to: determine an intent corresponding to the natural language input, and determine a parameter for constituting the query based on the determined intent.
7. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the memory is further configured to: store a plurality of candidate condition tables, and wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: select the main information condition table among the plurality of candidate condition tables, based on the context information.
8. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the context information includes at least one of user information indicating a feature of a user of the electronic device, time information associated with a point in time when the event occurs, or place information indicating a location of the electronic device.
9. The electronic device of claim 1, further comprising: a communication circuit configured to communicate with an external electronic device, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: transmit the query to the external electronic device via the communication circuit, and parse an electronic document received as a response to the query to determine the raw data.
10. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: select a response template corresponding to the event, and enter the selected main information into the response template to generate the natural language response.
11. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the response template includes a value token capable of being replaced with the main information and a template token branched depending on the context information.
12. A method in which an electronic device provides a natural language response, the method comprising: detecting an occurrence of an event; determining a query corresponding to the event as a response to the occurrence of the event; obtaining raw data based on at least part of the query; determining a main information condition table for defining a condition for selecting data based on context information associated with the event; selecting main information from the raw data, based on the main information condition table; and outputting a natural language response generated based on the selected main information.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the main information condition table includes at least one data field item and a priority determination condition corresponding to the respective at least one data field item.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the selecting of the main information includes: determining a main information candidate list including at least one value corresponding to the at least one data field item; and selecting the main information among the at least one value based on the priority determination condition.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the selecting of the main information among the at least one value includes: comparing the at least one value with the priority determination condition; determining a priority for the respective at least one value, based on a result of the comparison; and selecting the main information among the at least one value based on the determined priority.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: when the number of fields of data including the main information exceeds a specified value, excluding a value of at least one field from the selected main information, based on the determined priority.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein the detecting of the occurrence of the event includes: receiving a natural language input corresponding to the event, and wherein the determining of the query includes: determining an intent corresponding to the natural language input, and determining a parameter for constituting the query based on the determined intent.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the context information includes at least one of user information indicating a feature of a user of the electronic device, time information associated with a point in time when the event occurs, or place information indicating a location of the electronic device.
19. The method of claim 12, wherein the outputting of the natural language response includes: selecting a response template corresponding to the event; and entering the selected main information into the response template to generate the natural language response.
20. At least one non-transitory computer-readable recording medium having recorded thereon a computer program for executing a method, the method comprising: detecting an occurrence of an event; determining a query corresponding to the event as a response to the occurrence of the event; obtaining raw data based on at least part of the query; determining a main information condition table for defining information for selecting data based on context information associated with the event; selecting main information from the raw data, based on the main information condition table; and outputting a natural language response generated based on the selected main information.
</claims>
</document>
