<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G10L15/04,G10L15/06,G10L15/197
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARK, SEON YEONG
LEE, JEE HYE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67256905
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ACOUSTIC INFORMATION BASED LANGUAGE MODELING SYSTEM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are a speech data based language modeling system and method. The speech data based language modeling method includes transcription of text data, and generation of a regional dialect corpus based on the text data and regional dialect-containing speech data and generation of an acoustic model and a language model using the regional dialect corpus. The generation of an acoustic model and a language model is performed by machine learning of an artificial intelligence (AI) algorithm using speech data and marking of word spacing of a regional dialect sentence using a speech data tag. A user is able to use a regional dialect speech recognition service which is improved using 5G mobile communication technologies of eMBB, URLLC, or mMTC.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A language modeling method, performed by a language modeling system, the language modeling method comprising: transcribing text data by sorting regional dialect-containing speech data from collected speech data; generating a regional dialect corpus using the text data and the regional dialect-containing speech data; and generating an acoustic model and a language model using the regional dialect corpus, wherein the generating an acoustic model and a language model comprises marking speech data on word spacing of a regional dialect sentence using a tag, and training the language model based on the speech data.
2. The language modeling method of claim 1, further comprising collecting speech data of a user through a speech recognition service domain.
3. The language modeling method of claim 2, wherein, in the collecting speech data, speech data of users using different regional dialects is collected through speech input/output interfaces of various electronic devices.
4. The language modeling method of claim 1, wherein the transcribing text data comprises: removing an abnormal vocalization from the collected speech data; selecting regional dialect-containing speech data using a reliability measurement of the speech data; and obtaining transcription data from the regional dialect-containing speech data.
5. The language modeling method of claim 1, wherein the generating a regional dialect corpus comprises: extracting a feature from the regional dialect-containing speech data; performing clustering of similar regional dialect items in the regional dialect-containing speech data using the extracted feature; extracting a core regional dialect item from a similar dialect item cluster; and standardizing a regional dialect corpus using the extracted core regional dialect item.
6. The language modeling method of claim 5, wherein, in the extracting a feature from the regional dialect-containing speech data, at least one among pronunciation string features, lexical features, domain features, and frequency features of a regional dialect item is extracted.
7. The language modeling method of claim 6, wherein the domain features comprise information on a type of an electronic apparatus providing a speech recognition service for the user, information on a region in which the electronic apparatus is located, and information on an age group of the user of the electronic apparatus.
8. The language modeling method of claim 5, wherein, in the performing clustering of similar dialect items, a degree of similarity between features is measured through a weight calculation between the features according to an unsupervised learning method, and regional dialect items having a degree of similarity higher than a threshold are clustered.
9. The language modeling method of claim 5, wherein, in the extracting a core regional dialect item from the similar dialect item cluster, N number of objects having the highest frequency features in a cluster are extracted, and a core object is extracted through a feature similarity calculation with other objects in the cluster.
10. The language modeling method of claim 5, wherein, in the standardizing a regional dialect corpus, an existing regional dialect item is replaced with a core object regional dialect item, and verification is performed through a similarity measurement between an original dialect sentence and a replaced sentence.
11. A language modeling system, comprising: a data transcription module transcribing text data from regional dialect-containing speech data of collected speech data; a corpus generation module generating a regional dialect corpus using the text data and the regional dialect-containing speech data; an acoustic model generation module and a language model generation module generating an acoustic model and a language model, respectively, using the regional dialect corpus; and a speech recognition engine recognizing speech using the trained acoustic model and the trained language model, wherein the language model generation module marks word-phrases using a tag on regional dialect speech data, and trains the language model according to a frequency of units of the word-phrases using the speech data.
12. The language modeling system of claim 11, wherein the language model generation module comprises: a first module marking a silent syllable using a tag on speech data extracted from the regional dialect-containing speech data; a second module segmenting the speech data into word-phrases; and a third module extracting a frequency of units of the word-phrases.
13. The language modeling system of claim 11, further comprising a data collection module collecting speech data of users using different regional dialects through speech input/output interfaces of various electronic devices.
14. The language modeling system of claim 11, wherein the data transcription module removes an abnormal vocalization from collected speech data, selects regional dialect-containing speech data using a reliability measurement of the speech data, and generates transcription data from the regional dialect-containing speech data.
15. The language modeling system of claim 11, wherein the corpus generation module comprises: a feature extraction module extracting a feature from the regional dialect-containing speech data; a deep learning module performing clustering of similar dialect items in the regional dialect-containing speech data using the extracted feature; a core regional dialect item extraction module extracting a core regional dialect item from a similar dialect item cluster; and a corpus standardization module standardizing a regional dialect corpus using the extracted core regional dialect item.
16. The language modeling system of claim 15, wherein the feature extraction module extracts at least one among pronunciation string features, lexical features, domain features, and frequency features of a regional dialect item.
17. The language modeling system of claim 16, wherein the domain features comprise information on a type of an electronic apparatus providing a speech recognition service for the user, information on a region in which the electronic apparatus is located, and information on an age group of the user of the electronic apparatus.
18. The language modeling system of claim 15, wherein the deep learning module measures a degree of similarity between features through a weight calculation between the features according to an unsupervised learning method, and clusters regional dialect items having a degree of similarity higher than a threshold.
19. The language modeling system of claim 15, wherein the core regional dialect item extraction module extracts N number of objects having the highest frequency features in a cluster, and extracts a core object through a feature similarity calculation with other objects in the cluster.
20. The language modeling system of claim 15, wherein the corpus standardization module replaces an existing regional dialect item with a core regional dialect item, and performs verification through a similarity measurement between an original regional dialect sentence and a replaced sentence.
</claims>
</document>
