<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06F21/60,G06F21/62,G06N20/00,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PROTEGRITY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
YAN, LING-LING
MEIJER, HANS
ROZENBERG, YIGAL
LEVY, VICHAI
WILLIAMSON, DAVID CLYDE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63106401
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Sensitive Data Classification
</title>

<abstract>
A gateway device includes a network interface connected to data sources, and computer instructions, that when executed cause a processor to access data portions from the data sources. The processor accesses classification rules, which are configured to classify a data portion of the plurality of data portions as sensitive data in response to the data portion satisfying the rule. Each rule is associated with a significance factor representative of an accuracy of the classification rule. The processor applies each of the set of classification rules to a data portion to obtain an output of whether the data is sensitive data. The output are weighed by significance factors to produce a set of weighted outputs. The processor determines if the data portion is sensitive data by aggregating the set of weighted outputs, and presents the determination in a user interface. Security operations may also be performed on the data portion.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A gateway device, comprising: a network interface communicatively coupled with a plurality of data sources; a hardware processor; and a non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer readable instructions, that when executed by the hardware processor, cause the hardware processor to: access data from one or more of the plurality of data sources, the accessed data comprising a plurality of data portions; access a set of classification rules, each of the set of classification rules configured to classify a data portion of the plurality of data portions as sensitive data, each classification associated with a weight computed based on 1) a type of sensitive data that the classification rule is configured to detect and 2) an expected rate of false positives associated with the type of sensitive data; determine if the data portion is sensitive by aggregating the weights associated with each classification; and in response to a selection of a security operation presented to a user via a security user interface responsive to determining that the data portion is sensitive, perform the security operation to reduce a security risk associated with the data portion.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein a data portion is at least one of: a cell in a table, a non-delimited string of characters, and a file.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein sensitive data is at least one of: an address component, a date of birth, a telephone number, an email address, a social security number, a financial account number, a password, and a username.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein a classification rule of the set of classification rules is satisfied when the data portion matches a pre-defined pattern associated with the classification rule.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein a classification rule of the set of classification rules is satisfied when a data parsing rule associated with the classification rule is applied to the data portion and returns a true value.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein a classification rule of the set of classification rules is satisfied when a contextual data requirement specified by the classification rule is satisfied by one or both of the data portion and associated data sources of the plurality of data sources.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein a classification rule of the set of classification rules is satisfied when the data portion matches an entry in a reference table specified by the classification rule.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein a classification rule of the set of classification rules is satisfied when a trained machine learning model associated with the classification rule returns a score for the data portion beyond a threshold value, the score computed by the machine learning model based on one or more features extracted from the data portion and used as input for the machine learning model.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the selected security operation includes at least one of encryption, tokenization, and obfuscation, and wherein the selected security operation is performed based on a desired security level for the data portion.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the expected rate of false positives associated with a classification rule is determined by applying the classification rule to a training data set.
11. A computer-implemented method, comprising: access data from one or more of the plurality of data sources, the accessed data comprising a plurality of data portions; access a set of classification rules, each of the set of classification rules configured to classify a data portion of the plurality of data portions as sensitive data, each classification associated with a weight computed based on 1) a type of sensitive data that the classification rule is configured to detect and 2) an expected rate of false positives associated with the type of sensitive data; determine if the data portion is sensitive by aggregating the weights associated with each classification; and in response to a selection of a security operation presented to a user via a security user interface responsive to determining that the data portion is sensitive, perform the security operation to reduce a security risk associated with the data portion.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein a data portion is at least one of: a cell in a table, a non-delimited string of characters, and a file.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein sensitive data is at least one of: an address component, a date of birth, a telephone number, an email address, a social security number, a financial account number, a password, and a username.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein a classification rule of the set of classification rules is satisfied when the data portion matches a pre-defined pattern associated with the classification rule.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein a classification rule of the set of classification rules is satisfied when a data parsing rule associated with the classification rule is applied to the data portion and returns a true value.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein a classification rule of the set of classification rules is satisfied when a contextual data requirement specified by the classification rule is satisfied by one or both of the data portion and associated data sources of the plurality of data sources.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein a classification rule of the set of classification rules is satisfied when the data portion matches an entry in a reference table specified by the classification rule.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein a classification rule of the set of classification rules is satisfied when a trained machine learning model associated with the classification rule returns a score for the data portion beyond a threshold value, the score computed by the machine learning model based on one or more features extracted from the data portion and used as input for the machine learning model.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein the selected security operation includes at least one of encryption, tokenization, and obfuscation, and wherein the selected security operation is performed based on a desired security level for the data portion.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein the expected rate of false positives associated with a classification rule is determined by applying the classification rule to a training data set.
</claims>
</document>
