<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/215,G06F16/2457,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
KABRA, NAMIT
SAILLET, YANNICK
Bhide, Manish Anand
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74038052
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATICALLY RANK AND ROUTE DATA QUALITY REMEDIATION TASKS
</title>

<abstract>
In an approach for automatically ranking and routing data quality remediation tasks, a processor analyzes a data set ingested by a repository to produce a set of data quality problems. A processor computes a score for each data quality problem of the set of data quality problems. A processor identifies a route to send each data quality problem of the set of data quality problems. A processor exports each data quality problem according to the score and the route.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for automatically ranking and routing data quality remediation tasks, the computer-implemented method comprising: analyzing, by one or more processors, a data set ingested by a repository to produce a set of data quality problems; computing, by the one or more processors, a score for each data quality problem of the set of data quality problems; identifying, by the one or more processors, a route to send each data quality problem of the set of data quality problems; and exporting, by the one or more processors, each data quality problem according to the score and the route.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the data set further comprises: analyzing, by the one or more processors, the data set for data characteristics; tagging, by the one or more processors, the data set with business terms; identifying, by the one or more processors, a set of data quality rules; and searching, by the one or more processors, for the set of data quality problems based on the data characteristics, the business terms, and the set of data quality rules.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the score is used to rank the set of data quality problems.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the score for each data quality problem of the set of data quality problems is a function of a relevance of each data quality problem and an expected cost of resolution of each data quality problem, and wherein the score is a weighted average of the relevance and the expected cost of resolution with pre-defined weights.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the relevance of each data quality problem is based on a set of data lineage metadata for the data set, and wherein the set of data lineage metadata is inspected for a set of dependent assets that use the data set as a source.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the route is a steward's computing device.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein identifying the route comprises: applying, by the one or more processors, a trained machine-learning model to identify a steward's computing device to send each data quality problem to.
8. A computer program product for automatically ranking and routing data quality remediation tasks, the computer program product comprising: one or more computer readable storage media and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to analyze a data set ingested by a repository to produce a set of data quality problems; program instructions to compute a score for each data quality problem of the set of data quality problems; program instructions to identify a route to send each data quality problem of the set of data quality problems; and program instructions to export each data quality problem according to the score and the route.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the program instructions to analyze the data set further comprise: program instructions to analyze the data set for data characteristics; program instructions to tag the data set with business terms; program instructions to identify a set of data quality rules; and program instructions to search for the set of data quality problems based on the data characteristics, the business terms, and the set of data quality rules.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the score is used to rank the set of data quality problems.
11. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the score for each data quality problem of the set of data quality problems is a function of a relevance of each data quality problem and an expected cost of resolution of each data quality problem, and wherein the score is a weighted average of the relevance and the expected cost of resolution with pre-defined weights.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the relevance of each data quality problem is based on a set of data lineage metadata for the data set, and wherein the set of data lineage metadata is inspected for a set of dependent assets that use the data set as a source.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the route is a steward's computing device.
14. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the program instructions to identify the route comprise: program instructions to apply a trained machine-learning model to identify a steward's computing device to send each data quality problem to.
15. A computer system for automatically ranking and routing data quality remediation tasks, the computer system comprising: one or more computer processors; one or more computer readable storage media; program instructions stored on the computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more processors, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to analyze a data set ingested by a repository to produce a set of data quality problems; program instructions to compute a score for each data quality problem of the set of data quality problems; program instructions to identify a route to send each data quality problem of the set of data quality problems; and program instructions to export each data quality problem according to the score and the route.
16. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the program instructions to analyze the data set further comprise: program instructions to analyze the data set for data characteristics; program instructions to tag the data set with business terms; program instructions to identify a set of data quality rules; and program instructions to search for the set of data quality problems based on the data characteristics, the business terms, and the set of data quality rules.
17. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the score is used to rank the set of data quality problems.
18. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the score for each data quality problem of the set of data quality problems is a function of a relevance of each data quality problem and an expected cost of resolution of each data quality problem, and wherein the score is a weighted average of the relevance and the expected cost of resolution with pre-defined weights.
19. The computer system of claim 18, wherein the relevance of each data quality problem is based on a set of data lineage metadata for the data set, and wherein the set of data lineage metadata is inspected for a set of dependent assets that use the data set as a source.
20. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the program instructions to identify the route comprise: program instructions to apply a trained machine-learning model to identify a steward's computing device to send each data quality problem to.
</claims>
</document>
