<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IMMERSION CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SWINDELLS, COLIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67180595
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ADAPTIVE HAPTIC EFFECT RENDERING BASED ON DYNAMIC SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for generating haptic effects adapted to a dynamic system associated with a user's dynamic interaction with a haptic enabled apparatus. The systems and methods operates to monitor a dynamic change in the dynamic system and automatically modify haptic rendering in real time so that the user can feel consistent haptic effects adapted to the change in the dynamic system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating a haptic effect, the method comprising: receiving a signal from an input device of a haptic enabled apparatus, the signal representative of one or more parameters of a dynamic system including object parameters representative of physical characteristics of the haptic enabled apparatus which influence a user's sensation of a haptic effect generated from the haptic enabled apparatus; determining a haptic parameter modification value based on the signal; modifying at least one of haptic data parameters based on the haptic parameter modification value; generating a modified haptic signal based on the haptic data parameters; and applying the modified haptic signal to a haptic actuator, thereby providing a haptic effect adapted to the dynamic system.
2. (canceled)
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the object parameters include at least one of position, velocity and acceleration associated with the haptic enabled apparatus.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the dynamic system parameters include user parameters associated with a user's behavioral and physiological properties with respect to the haptic enabled apparatus.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the user parameters include a user grip strength, a user grip pattern, and a user skin sensitivity with respect to the haptic enabled apparatus.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the dynamic system parameters include environmental parameters representative of physical characteristics of an environment surrounding the haptic enabled apparatus.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing the dynamic system parameters in the haptic enabled apparatus.
8. An apparatus for generating haptic effects, the apparatus comprising: an actuator; an actuator drive circuit configured to operate the actuator; an input device configured to monitor a dynamic system; and a processing device connected to the actuator drive circuit and the input device, the processing device configured to: receive a signal from the input device, the signal representative of one or more parameters of the dynamic system including object parameters representative of physical characteristics of the apparatus which influence a user's sensation of a haptic effect generated from the apparatus; determine a haptic parameter modification value based on the signal; modify at least one of haptic data parameters based on the haptic parameter modification value; generate a modified haptic signal based on the haptic data parameters; and transmit the modified haptic signal to the actuator drive circuit, the modified haptic signal enabling the actuator drive circuit to control the actuator, thereby providing a haptic effect adapted to the dynamic system.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the dynamic system parameters include the object parameters, user parameters, and environmental parameters, the object parameters representative of physical characteristics of the apparatus including at least one of position, velocity and acceleration associated with the apparatus; the user parameters associated with a user's behavioral and physiological properties with respect to the apparatus, the user parameters including a user grip strength, a user grip pattern, and a user skin sensitivity with respect to the apparatus; and the environmental parameters representative of physical characteristics of an environment surrounding the apparatus.
10. A computer-readable storage medium comprising software instructions that, when executed, cause a haptic enabled apparatus to: receive a signal from an input device of the haptic enabled apparatus, the signal representative of one or more parameters of a dynamic system including object parameters representative of physical characteristics of the haptic enabled apparatus which influence a user's sensation of a haptic effect generated from the haptic enabled apparatus; determine a haptic parameter modification value based on the signal; modify at least one of haptic data parameters based on the haptic parameter modification value; generate a modified haptic signal based on the haptic data parameters; and operate a haptic actuator using the modified haptic signal, thereby providing a haptic effect adapted to the dynamic system.
11. A method for generating a haptic effect, the method comprising: generating a characterization model representative of a dynamic system, the dynamic system indicative of inputs received through an input device of a haptic enabled apparatus; receiving a signal from the input device, the signal representative of parameters of the dynamic system including object parameters representative of physical characteristics of the haptic enabled apparatus which influence a user's sensation of a haptic effect generated from the haptic enabled apparatus; updating the characterization model based on the signal; modifying a haptic effect rendering model based on the updated characterization model; generating a haptic signal based on the modified haptic effect rendering model; and controlling a haptic actuator using the haptic signal, thereby providing a haptic effect adapted to the dynamic system.
12. (canceled)
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the object parameters include at least one of position, velocity and acceleration associated with the haptic enabled apparatus.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the dynamic system parameters include user parameters associated with a user's behavioral and physiological properties with respect to the haptic enabled apparatus.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the user parameters include a user grip strength, a user grip pattern, and a user skin sensitivity with respect to the haptic enabled apparatus.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the dynamic system parameters include environmental parameters representative of physical characteristics of an environment surrounding the haptic enabled apparatus.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising: storing the dynamic system parameters in the haptic enabled apparatus.
18. An apparatus for generating haptic effects, the apparatus comprising: an actuator; an actuator drive circuit configured to operate the actuator; an input device configured to monitor a dynamic system; and a processing device connected to the actuator drive circuit and the input device, the processing device configured to: generate a characterization model representative of the dynamic system; receive a signal from the input device, the signal representative of parameters of the dynamic system including object parameters representative of physical characteristics of the apparatus which influence a user's sensation of a haptic effect generated from the apparatus; update the characterization model based on the signal; modify a haptic effect rendering model based on the updated characterization model; generate a haptic effect signal based on the modified haptic effect rendering model; and transmit the haptic effect signal to the actuator drive circuit, the haptic effect signal enabling the actuator drive circuit to control the actuator, thereby providing a haptic effect adapted to the dynamic system.
19. (canceled)
20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the object parameters include at least one of position, velocity and acceleration associated with the apparatus.
21. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the dynamic system parameters include user parameters associated with a user's behavioral and physiological properties with respect to the apparatus.
22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the user parameters include a user grip strength, a user grip pattern, and a user skin sensitivity with respect to the apparatus.
23. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the dynamic system parameters include environmental parameters representative of physical characteristics of an environment surrounding the apparatus.
24. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the processing device is further configured to: store the dynamic system parameters in the apparatus.
25. A computer-readable storage medium comprising software instructions that, when executed, cause a haptic enabled apparatus to: store a characterization model representative of a dynamic system; store a haptic effect rendering model; receive a signal from an input device associated with the haptic enabled apparatus, the signal representative of parameters of the dynamic system including object parameters representative of physical characteristics of the haptic enabled apparatus which influence a user's sensation of a haptic effect generated from the haptic enabled apparatus; update the characterization model based on the signal; store the updated characterization model; modify the haptic effect rendering model based on the updated characterization model; generate a haptic effect signal based on the modified haptic effect rendering model; and operate a haptic actuator using the haptic effect signal, thereby providing a haptic effect adapted to the dynamic system.
26. (canceled)
27. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 25, wherein the object parameters include at least one of position, velocity and acceleration associated with the haptic enabled apparatus.
28. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 25, wherein the dynamic system parameters include user parameters associated with a user's behavioral and physiological properties with respect to the haptic enabled apparatus.
29. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 28, wherein the user parameters include a user grip strength, a user grip pattern, and a user skin sensitivity with respect to the haptic enabled apparatus.
30. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 25, wherein the dynamic system parameters include environmental parameters representative of physical characteristics of an environment surrounding the haptic enabled apparatus.
31. The method of claim 11, wherein the characterization model includes a machine learning algorithm configured to learn the dynamic system with respect to the haptic enabled apparatus; the method comprising updating the characterization model according to the machine learning algorithm.
32. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the characterization model includes a machine learning algorithm configured to learn the dynamic system with respect to the haptic enabled apparatus; and the processing device is configured to update the characterization model according to the machine learning algorithm.
33. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 25, wherein the characterization model includes a machine learning algorithm configured to learn the dynamic system with respect to the haptic enabled apparatus; and wherein the characterization model is updated according to the machine learning algorithm.
34. The method of claim 11, wherein the characterization model includes one or more ranges for each of the dynamic system parameters, and the ranges are for modifying the haptic effect rendering model.
35. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the characterization model includes one or more ranges for each of the dynamic system parameters, and the ranges are for modifying the haptic effect rendering model.
36. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 25, wherein the characterization model includes one or more ranges for each of the dynamic system parameters, and the ranges are for modifying the haptic effect rendering model.
</claims>
</document>
