<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60Q5/00,B60W30/14,B60W30/18,B60W30/19
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HARMAN
</assignee>

<inventors>
BASTYR, KEVIN J.
GOMEZ, ANTONIO
KUMAR, ADITYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71607690
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DRIVE MODE OPTIMIZED ENGINE ORDER CANCELLATION
</title>

<abstract>
Engine order cancellation (EOC) systems generate feed forward noise signals based on the engine or other rotating shaft RPM and use those signals and adaptively configured W-filters to reduce the in-cabin SPL by radiating anti-noise through speakers. An EOC system may include a drive mode detector for detecting different vehicle drive modes based on an analysis of signals indicative of current vehicle operating conditions. Upon detection, the EOC system may adaptively adjust various tuning parameters for the EOC algorithm based on the current vehicle drive mode. The EOC system may also selectively target different sets of engine orders for noise cancellation according to the current vehicle drive mode based on which engine orders are dominant during that drive mode.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for dynamically tuning an engine order cancellation (EOC) system based on vehicle drive mode, the method comprising: storing a set of EOC tuning parameters for each of a plurality of vehicle drive modes in memory, each set of EOC tuning parameters differing between vehicle drive modes; applying a first set of EOC tuning parameters corresponding to a current vehicle drive mode; receiving at least one signal indicative of vehicle operating conditions; detecting a change in the current vehicle drive mode based on the at least one signal; and applying a second set of EOC tuning parameters in response to the change in the current vehicle drive mode.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: applying the first set of EOC tuning parameters corresponding to the current vehicle drive mode comprises: selecting the first set of EOC tuning parameters corresponding to a first vehicle drive mode from memory when the first vehicle drive mode is the current vehicle drive mode; and employing the first set of EOC tuning parameters during EOC; and applying the second set of EOC tuning parameters in response to the change in current vehicle drive mode comprises: selecting the second set of EOC tuning parameters corresponding to a second vehicle drive mode from memory in response to the change in current vehicle drive mode from the first vehicle drive mode to the second vehicle drive mode; and employing the second set of EOC tuning parameters during EOC when the current vehicle drive is the second vehicle drive mode.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of EOC tuning parameters for each of the plurality of vehicle drive modes includes at least a step size.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of EOC tuning parameters for each of the plurality of vehicle drive modes includes at least a leakage value.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of EOC tuning parameters for each of the plurality of vehicle drive modes includes at least a gain applied to one of an anti-noise signal and a noise signal.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of EOC tuning parameters for each of the plurality of vehicle drive modes includes at least a sound pressure level threshold applied to an error signal.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one signal is indicative of cruise control engagement.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one signal is indicative of at least one of revolutions per minute (RPM), speed, and torque.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein detecting the change in the current vehicle drive mode based on the at least one signal comprises: determining a rate of change of at least one of RPM, speed, and torque; and comparing the rate of change to one or more predetermined thresholds.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of vehicle drive modes includes at least a partially open throttle drive mode and a constant speed drive mode.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of vehicle drive modes further includes a wide open throttle drive mode.
12. An engine order cancellation (EOC) system comprising: at least one controllable filter configured to generate an anti-noise signal based on an adaptive transfer characteristic and a noise signal received from a noise signal generator, the adaptive transfer characteristic of the at least one controllable filter characterized by a set of filter coefficients; an adaptive filter controller, including a processor and memory, programmed to: store a set of EOC tuning parameters for each of a plurality of vehicle drive modes, each set of EOC tuning parameters differing between vehicle drive modes; apply the set of EOC tuning parameters corresponding to a current vehicle drive mode; and adapt the set of filter coefficients based on the noise signal and an error signal received from a microphone located in a cabin of a vehicle; and a drive mode detector in communication with at least the adaptive filter controller, the drive mode detector including a processor and memory programmed to: receive at least one signal indicative of vehicle operating conditions; analyze the at least one signal to determine the current vehicle drive mode; and transmit a drive mode signal indicative of the current vehicle drive mode to the adaptive filter controller.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the drive mode detector transmits the drive mode signal in response to detecting a change in the current vehicle drive mode.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the set of EOC tuning parameters for each of the plurality of vehicle drive modes includes at least one of a step size and a leakage value.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the plurality of vehicle drive modes includes at least a partially open throttle drive mode and a constant speed drive mode.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one signal indicative of vehicle operating conditions is indicative of at least one of revolutions per minute (RPM), speed, and torque.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one signal indicative of vehicle operating conditions is indicative of transmission gear state.
18. A method for dynamically targeting dominant engine orders for active noise cancellation in an engine order cancellation (EOC) system based on vehicle drive mode, the method comprising: storing a set of dominant engine orders for each of a plurality of vehicle drive modes, each set of dominant engine orders differing between vehicle drive modes; receiving at least one signal indicative of vehicle operating conditions; detecting a current vehicle drive mode based on the at least one signal; selecting the set of dominant engine orders corresponding to the current vehicle drive mode; and applying noise cancellation to each engine order in the set of dominant engine orders corresponding to the current vehicle drive mode.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising selecting a different set of dominant engine orders in response to detecting a change in the current vehicle drive mode.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein each of the plurality of vehicle drive modes corresponds to a different state of a vehicle transmission.
</claims>
</document>
