<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/182,G06Q20/38,H04L9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PATIL, AJIT VILASRAO
Pangam, Balkrishna Dinesh
Ghosh, Atindra Nath
</assignee>

<inventors>
PATIL, AJIT VILASRAO
Pangam, Balkrishna Dinesh
Ghosh, Atindra Nath
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72423680
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes a full node storing a blockchain and being one of a plurality of full nodes forming a blockchain network receiving a message comprising update image data and a smart contract identifier from a first user device. The full node can then determine stored image data associated with the smart contract identifier. The full node can also determine whether or not image comparison data based on received image data and stored image data is consistent with a smart contract associated with the smart contract identifier and can then generate an entry for a block of the blockchain, comprising at least the smart contract identifier, the updated image data, and image comparison data. The full node can generate the block of the blockchain and transmit the block to the plurality of full nodes. The plurality of full nodes respectively verify the block. The full node can store the block on the blockchain and transmit an indication of whether or not the block was stored on the blockchain to the first user device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a full node storing a blockchain, a message comprising update image data and a smart contract identifier from a first user device, the full node being one of a plurality of full nodes forming a blockchain network; determining, by the full node, stored image data associated with the smart contract identifier; determining, by the full node, whether or not image comparison data of the updated image data and the stored image data is consistent with a smart contract associated with the smart contract identifier; generating, by the full node, an entry for a block of the blockchain, comprising at least the smart contract identifier, the updated image data, and image comparison data; generating, by the full node, the block of the blockchain; transmitting, by the full node, the block to the plurality of full nodes, wherein the plurality of full nodes respectively verify the block; storing, by the full node, the block on the blockchain; and transmitting, by the full node, an indication of whether or not the block was stored on the blockchain to the first user device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the block comprises a block header including a hash of a previous block of the blockchain, a timestamp, a nonce, and a merkle root.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein generating the block of the blockchain further comprises: determining, by the full node, a result to a hash function that is lower than a difficulty value, wherein the block header is an input to the hash function.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the image comparison data is consistent with the smart contract if the image comparison data fulfills one or more rules included in the smart contract.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein prior to receiving the message comprising the update image data and the smart contract identifier, the method further comprises: receiving, by the full node, first image data from a second user device, wherein the first image data is the stored image data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the update image data and the stored image data include location data, color data, contour data, template data, model data, and/or appearance data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more computer devices process a portion of the stored image data and/or the updated image data.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: providing the stored image data and the update image data to one or more computer devices, wherein the one or more computer devices process the stored image data and the updated image data, and determine the image comparison data; and wherein the one or more computer devices process the stored image data and the updated image data using appearance based object recognition, model based object recognition, template based object recognition, part based object recognition, region based object recognition, and/or contour based object recognition.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: providing the stored image data and the update image data to one or more computer devices, wherein the one or more computer devices process the stored image data and the updated image data, and determine the image comparison data; and wherein the one or more computer devices further includes a leader computer device, wherein the leader computer device validates and synchronizes the image comparison data among the one or more computer devices, and transmits the image comparison data to the full node.
10. A full node comprising: a processor; a memory device; and a computer-readable medium coupled to the processor, the computer-readable medium comprising code executable by the processor for implementing a method comprising: receiving, by the full node storing a blockchain, a message comprising update image data and a smart contract identifier from a first user device, the full node being one of a plurality of full nodes forming a blockchain network; determining stored image data associated with the smart contract identifier; determining whether or not image comparison data of the updated image data and the stored image data is consistent with a smart contract associated with the smart contract identifier; generating an entry for a block of the blockchain, comprising at least the smart contract identifier, the updated image data, and image comparison data; generating the block of the blockchain; transmitting the block to the plurality of full nodes, wherein the plurality of full nodes respectively verify the block; storing the block on the blockchain; and transmitting an indication of whether or not the block was stored on the blockchain to the first user device.
11. The full node of claim 10, wherein the block comprises a block header including a previous hash, a timestamp, a nonce, and a merkle root.
12. The full node of claim 11, wherein generating the block of the blockchain further comprises: determining, by the full node, a result to a hash function that is lower than a difficulty value, wherein the block header is an input to the hash function.
13. The full node of claim 10, wherein the image comparison data is consistent with the smart contract if the image comparison data fulfills one or more rules included in the smart contract.
14. The full node of claim 10, wherein prior to receiving the message comprising the update image data and the smart contract identifier, the method further comprises: receiving first image data from a second user device, wherein the first image data is the stored image data.
15. The full node of claim 10, wherein the update image data and the stored image data include location data, color data, contour data, template data, model data, and/or appearance data.
16. The full node of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises: providing the stored image data and the update image data to one or more computer devices, wherein the one or more computer devices process the stored image data and the updated image data, and determine the image comparison data; and wherein the one or more computer devices process a portion of the stored image data and/or the updated image data.
17. The full node of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises: providing the stored image data and the update image data to one or more computer devices, wherein the one or more computer devices process the stored image data and the updated image data, and determine the image comparison data; and wherein the one or more computer devices process the stored image data and the updated image data using appearance based object recognition, model based object recognition, template based object recognition, part based object recognition, region based object recognition, and/or contour based object recognition.
18. The full node of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises: providing the stored image data and the update image data to one or more computer devices, wherein the one or more computer devices process the stored image data and the updated image data, and determine the image comparison data; and wherein the one or more computer devices further includes a leader computer device, wherein the leader computer device validates and synchronizes the image comparison data among the one or more computer devices, and transmits the image comparison data to the full node.
19. A method comprising: receiving, by a full node storing a blockchain, an asset request message comprising an asset type and a first user identifier from a first user device; determining, by the full node, an entry in the blockchain associated with the asset type, wherein the entry includes at least a second user identifier; transmitting, by the full node to a second user device associated with the second user identifier, a contract request message comprising the asset type and the first user identifier; receiving, by the full node from the second user device, an contract response message indicating whether or not to create a smart contract; if the contract response message indicates to create the smart contract, generating, by the full node, the smart contract including at least the first user identifier, the second user identifier, the asset type, and a smart contract identifier; generating, by the full node, a new entry for a block of the blockchain, comprising at least the smart contract; generating, by the full node, the block of the blockchain; transmitting, by the full node, the block to a plurality of full nodes, wherein the plurality of full nodes respectively verify the block; storing, by the full node, the block on the blockchain; and transmitting, by the full node, an indication of whether or not the block was stored on the blockchain to the first user device and the second user device.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the new entry for the block of the blockchain further includes image data associated with the asset type, wherein the image data originated from the second user device.
</claims>
</document>
