<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W24/02,H04W72/02,H04W72/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
AKOUM, SALAM
GHOSH, ARUNABHA
NAMMI, SAIRAMESH
WANG, XIAOYI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69946378
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RECEIVER BEAMFORMING AND ANTENNA PANEL SWITCHING IN ADVANCED NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
Facilitating receiver beamforming and antenna panel switching in advanced networks (e.g., 4G, 5G, and beyond) is provided herein. Operations of a system can comprise performing a receiver beam evaluation procedure that determines whether a receiving beam is to be changed from a first receiving beam to a second receiving beam. The operations can also comprise transmitting, to a network device, a request for permission to perform a beam management procedure that switches the receiving beam from the first receiving beam to the second receiving beam. Further, the operations can comprise receiving, from the network device, a response to the request. The response can comprise an indication of an action to be performed based on a result of the receiver beam evaluation procedure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: performing a receiver beam evaluation procedure that determines whether a receiving beam is to be changed from a first receiving beam to a second receiving beam; transmitting, to a network device, a request for permission to perform a beam management procedure that switches the receiving beam from the first receiving beam to the second receiving beam; and receiving, from the network device, a response to the request, wherein the response comprises an indication of an action to be performed based on a result of the receiver beam evaluation procedure.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the performing the receiver beam evaluation procedure comprises: decoding a signal received on a downlink shared channel; and determining the receiving beam is to be changed from the first receiving beam to the second receiving beam based on a determination that a cyclic redundancy check for the signal received over the downlink shared channel has failed more than a defined threshold number of times.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the result is a first result, and wherein the performing the receiver beam evaluation procedure comprises: evaluating low-density parity-check code decoding iterations; and determining the receiving beam is to be changed from the first receiving beam to the second receiving beam based on a second result of the evaluating indicating that a number of iterations utilized for decoding a downlink shared channel satisfies a defined threshold number of iterations over a defined time interval.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the performing the receiver beam evaluation procedure comprises using gyroscope data to determine an orientation of a mobile device.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the request comprises transmitting the request at a first available transmission opportunity via an uplink control channel.
6. The system of claim 5, further comprising: using an unused combination of channel state information to indicate that the beam management procedure is to be started.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the request comprises transmitting the request at a first available transmission opportunity using a reserved physical random access channel that corresponds to a contention-free random access channel resource.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the request comprises transmitting the request at a first available transmission opportunity by including the request in uplink control information on an uplink shared control channel.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the request comprises transmitting the request via a channel configured to operate according to a fifth generation wireless network communication protocol.
10. A method, comprising: determining, by a mobile device of a communications network, that a receiving beam is to be changed from a first receiving beam to a second receiving beam based on a receiver beam training procedure, the mobile device comprising a processor; facilitating, by the mobile device, a transmission, to a network device, of a request for authorization to perform a beam management procedure at the mobile device, wherein the beam management procedure facilitates switching the receiving beam from the first receiving beam to the second receiving beam or a third receiving beam; and receiving, by the mobile device and from the network device, a response to the request, wherein the response comprises an indication of an action to be performed based on a result of the beam management procedure.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising performing the receiver beam training procedure, comprising: decoding a signal received on a downlink shared channel; and determining the receiving beam is to be changed from the first receiving beam to the second receiving beam based on a determination that a cyclic redundancy check for the signal received via the downlink shared channel has failed more than a defined threshold number of times.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the result is a first result, and wherein the method further comprises performing the receiver beam training procedure, comprising: evaluating low-density parity-check code decoding iterations; and determining the receiving beam is to be changed from the first receiving beam to the second receiving beam based on a second result of the evaluating indicating that a number of iterations utilized for decoding a downlink shared channel satisfies a defined threshold number of iterations over a defined time interval.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising performing the receiver beam training procedure, comprising: using gyroscope data to determine an orientation of the mobile device.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the facilitating the transmission of the request comprises transmitting the request at a first available transmission slot via an uplink control channel.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising: using an unused combination of channel state information to indicate that the beam management procedure is to be started.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein the facilitating the transmission of the request comprises transmitting the request at a first available transmission slot using a reserved physical random access channel that corresponds to a contention-free random access channel resource.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein the facilitating the transmission of the request comprises transmitting the request at a first available transmission slot by including the request in uplink control information on an uplink shared control channel.
18. A method, comprising: receiving, by a network device of a communications network, a request, from a mobile device of the communications network, to initiate a receiving beam switching procedure at the mobile device, the network device comprising a processor; sending, by the network device, an instruction to initiate the receiving beam switching procedure at the mobile device based on the request; and updating, by the network device, a transmission configuration indicator state represented in downlink control information.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the sending the instruction comprises: triggering a beam management procedure that instructs the mobile device to report a reference signal received power for a first transmit beam and a second transmit beam.
20. The method of claim 18, further comprising: prior to the updating the transmission configuration indicator state, receiving, by the network device, a selection of a transmission beam from the mobile device; and transmitting, by the network device, a channel state information reference signal with repetition, wherein the channel state information reference signal triggers a receiver beam training procedure at the mobile device.
</claims>
</document>
