<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/06,G10L15/07,G10L15/22,G10L17/00,G10L17/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
COFFMAN, PATRICK, L.
CARRIGAN, TAYLOR G.
GRAHAM, DAVID CHANCE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72750286
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multi-user configuration
</title>

<abstract>
Examples of multi-user configuration are disclosed. An example method includes, at an electronic device: receiving a request; and in response to the request: if the voice input does not match a voice profile associated with an account associated with the electronic device: causing output of first information based on the request using a first account associated with the electronic device; if a setting of the electronic device has a first state, causing update of account data of the first account based on the request; and if the setting has a second state, forgoing causing update of the account data; and if the voice input matches a voice profile associated with an account associated with the electronic device: causing output of the first information using the account associated with the matching voice profile; and causing update of account data of the account based on the request.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device, comprising: a media output device; one or more processors; and memory storing one or more programs configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including instructions for: receiving a request determined based on a voice input; and in response to receiving the request: in accordance with a determination that the voice input does not match a voice profile associated with an account that is associated with the electronic device: in accordance with a setting of the electronic device being set to a first state, causing update of account data of a first account based on the request; and in accordance with the setting of the electronic device being set to a second state, forgoing causing update of the account data of the first account based on the request.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the request is a first request and the voice input is a first voice input, the one or more programs further including instructions for: receiving a second request determined based on a second voice input, wherein the second voice input matches a voice profile associated with a second account that is associated with the electronic device, wherein the first account is different from the second account; and in response to receiving the second request, and in accordance with a determination that the second voice input matches the voice profile associated with the second account: causing output, by the media output device, of second information based on the second request using the second account associated with the electronic device; and causing update of account data of the second account based on the second request.
3. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein causing output of information using a respective account includes accessing media using credentials associated with the respective account.
4. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein causing update of account data of a respective account includes causing update of a media profile associated with the respective account.
5. The electronic device of claim 1, the one or more programs further including instructions for: receiving a third request determined based on a third voice input, wherein the third request is a request to output private information associated with a third account; in response to receiving the third request: in accordance with a determination that the third voice input matches a third voice profile associated with the third account: causing output, by the media output device, of the private information based on the third request using the third account; and in accordance with a determination that the third voice input does not match the third voice profile associated with the third account: forgoing causing output, by the media output device, of the private information based on the third request using the third account associated with the electronic device.
6. A computer-implemented method, comprising: at an electronic device with a media output device: receiving a request determined based on a voice input; and in response to receiving the request: in accordance with a determination that the voice input does not match a voice profile associated with an account that is associated with the electronic device: in accordance with a setting of the electronic device being set to a first state, causing update of account data of a first account based on the request; and in accordance with the setting of the electronic device being set to a second state, forgoing causing update of the account data of the first account based on the request.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the request is a first request and the voice input is a first voice input, the method further comprising: receiving a second request determined based on a second voice input, wherein the second voice input matches a voice profile associated with a second account that is associated with the electronic device, wherein the first account is different from the second account; and in response to receiving the second request, and in accordance with a determination that the second voice input matches the voice profile associated with the second account: causing output, by the media output device, of second information based on the second request using the second account associated with the electronic device; and causing update of account data of the second account based on the second request.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein causing output of information using a respective account includes accessing media using credentials associated with the respective account.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein causing update of account data of a respective account includes causing update of a media profile associated with the respective account.
10. The method of claim 6, further comprising: receiving a third request determined based on a third voice input, wherein the third request is a request to output private information associated with a third account; in response to receiving the third request: in accordance with a determination that the third voice input matches a third voice profile associated with the third account: causing output, by the media output device, of the private information based on the third request using the third account; and in accordance with a determination that the third voice input does not match the third voice profile associated with the third account: forgoing causing output, by the media output device, of the private information based on the third request using the third account associated with the electronic device.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs configured to be executed by one or more processors of an electronic device with a media output device, the one or more programs including instructions for: receiving a request determined based on a voice input; and in response to receiving the request: in accordance with a determination that the voice input does not match a voice profile associated with an account that is associated with the electronic device: in accordance with a setting of the electronic device being set to a first state, causing update of account data of a first account based on the request; and in accordance with the setting of the electronic device being set to a second state, forgoing causing update of the account data of the first account based on the request.
12. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the request is a first request and the voice input is a first voice input, the one or more programs further including instructions for: receiving a second request determined based on a second voice input, wherein the second voice input matches a voice profile associated with a second account that is associated with the electronic device, wherein the first account is different from the second account; and in response to receiving the second request, and in accordance with a determination that the second voice input matches the voice profile associated with the second account: causing output, by the media output device, of second information based on the second request using the second account associated with the electronic device; and causing update of account data of the second account based on the second request.
13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein causing output of information using a respective account includes accessing media using credentials associated with the respective account.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein causing update of account data of a respective account includes causing update of a media profile associated with the respective account.
15. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, the one or more programs further including instructions for: receiving a third request determined based on a third voice input, wherein the third request is a request to output private information associated with a third account; in response to receiving the third request: in accordance with a determination that the third voice input matches a third voice profile associated with the third account: causing output, by the media output device, of the private information based on the third request using the third account; and in accordance with a determination that the third voice input does not match the third voice profile associated with the third account: forgoing causing output, by the media output device, of the private information based on the third request using the third account associated with the electronic device.
16. The electronic device of claim 1, the one or more programs further including instructions for: in response to receiving the request: in accordance with a determination that the voice input does not match a voice profile associated with an account that is associated with the electronic device and prior to the setting of the electronic device being set to the first and second states, causing output, by the media output device, of first information based on the request using the first account associated with the electronic device.
17. The method of claim 6, the method further comprising: in response to receiving the request: in accordance with a determination that the voice input does not match a voice profile associated with an account that is associated with the electronic device and prior to the setting of the electronic device being set to the first and second states, causing output, by the media output device, of first information based on the request using the first account associated with the electronic device.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, the one or more programs further including instructions for: in response to receiving the request: in accordance with a determination that the voice input does not match a voice profile associated with an account that is associated with the electronic device and prior to the setting of the electronic device being set to the first and second states, causing output, by the media output device, of first information based on the request using the first account associated with the electronic device.
19. The electronic device of claim 1, the one or more programs further including instructions for: in response to receiving the request: in accordance with a determination that the voice input matches a voice profile associated with an account that is associated with the electronic device: causing output, by the media output device, of the first information based on the request using the account associated with the matching voice profile; and causing update of account data of the account associated with the matching voice profile based on the request.
20. The method of claim 6, the method further comprising: in response to receiving the request: in accordance with a determination that the voice input matches a voice profile associated with an account that is associated with the electronic device: causing output, by the media output device, of the first information based on the request using the account associated with the matching voice profile; and causing update of account data of the account associated with the matching voice profile based on the request.
21. The computer readable storage medium of claim 11, the one or more programs further including instructions for: in response to receiving the request: in accordance with a determination that the voice input matches a voice profile associated with an account that is associated with the electronic device: causing output, by the media output device, of the first information based on the request using the account associated with the matching voice profile; and causing update of account data of the account associated with the matching voice profile based on the request.
</claims>
</document>
