<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/16,G06N7/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAUDI ARABIAN OIL COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
Idris, Muhammad Azmi
Alabdulmohsin, Ibrahim
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71527980
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MODEL PREDICTIVE CONTROL USING SEMIDEFINITE PROGRAMMING
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods include a method for optimizing an action at a facility using a prediction of a target variable. Historical data is collected for a set of facilities. The historical data includes transactional data for discrete events that occurred at the set of facilities and non-transactional data spanning continuous time periods. Semidefinite matrices are generated using the historical data, where the semidefinite matrices incorporate historical samples of a form (yt, xt, zt), and where yt is a target variable to be predicted at time t, xt is an input parameter at time t, and zt is an environment variable at time t. A statistical model based on the semidefinite matrices is determined. Production at a facility is monitored, including collecting production data comprising the transactional data and the non-transactional data of the facility. Using the statistical model and the production data, a prediction of a target variable associated with operating conditions at the facility is determined. An action at the facility is optimized using the prediction of the target variable yt.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: collecting historical data for a set of facilities, wherein the historical data includes transactional data for discrete events that occurred at the set of facilities and non-transactional data spanning continuous time periods; generating semidefinite matrices using the historical data, wherein the semidefinite matrices incorporate historical samples of a form (yt, xt, zt), and wherein yt is a target variable to be predicted at time t, xt is an input parameter at time t, and zt is an environment variable at time t; determining a statistical model based on the semidefinite matrices; monitoring production at a facility, including collecting production data comprising the transactional data and the non-transactional data of the facility; determining, using the statistical model and the production data, a prediction of a target variable yt associated with operating conditions at the facility; and optimizing an action at the facility using the prediction of the target variable yt.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein yt is given by a function y=f(z)·x+g(z).
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein f(z) satisfies f(z)≥0 for all z or f(z)≤0 for all z.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the transactional data includes maintenance history data and the non-transactional data includes sensor measurements.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the action is an optimizing action for optimizing a figure of merit, such as system reliability, availability, maintenance costs, or revenues.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the prediction of the target variable yt is further based on market conditions including refinery utilizations, freight rates, supply/demand gaps, and exchange rates.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising providing, for presentation to a user in a user interface, recommendations for optimizing the action at the facility.
8. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions executable by a computer system to perform operations comprising: collecting historical data for a set of facilities, wherein the historical data includes transactional data for discrete events that occurred at the set of facilities and non-transactional data spanning continuous time periods; generating semidefinite matrices using the historical data, wherein the semidefinite matrices incorporate historical samples of a form (yt, xt, zt), and wherein yt is a target variable to be predicted at time t, xt is an input parameter at time t, and zt is an environment variable at time t; determining a statistical model based on the semidefinite matrices; monitoring production at a facility, including collecting production data comprising the transactional data and the non-transactional data of the facility; determining, using the statistical model and the production data, a prediction of a target variable yt associated with operating conditions at the facility; and optimizing an action at the facility using the prediction of the target variable yt.
9. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein yt is given by a function y=f(z)·x+g(z).
10. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein f(z) satisfies f(z)≥0 for all z or f(z)≤0 for all z.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the transactional data includes maintenance history data and the non-transactional data includes sensor measurements.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the action is an optimizing action for optimizing a figure of merit, such as system reliability, availability, maintenance costs, or revenues.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein determining the prediction of the target variable yt is further based on market conditions including refinery utilizations, freight rates, supply/demand gaps, and exchange rates.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, the operations further comprising providing, for presentation to a user in a user interface, recommendations for optimizing the action at the facility.
15. A computer-implemented system, comprising: one or more processors; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium coupled to the one or more processors and storing programming instructions for execution by the one or more processors, the programming instructions instructing the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: collecting historical data for a set of facilities, wherein the historical data includes transactional data for discrete events that occurred at the set of facilities and non-transactional data spanning continuous time periods; generating semidefinite matrices using the historical data, wherein the semidefinite matrices incorporate historical samples of a form (yt, xt, zt), and wherein yt is a target variable to be predicted at time t, xt is an input parameter at time t, and zt is an environment variable at time t; determining a statistical model based on the semidefinite matrices; monitoring production at a facility, including collecting production data comprising the transactional data and the non-transactional data of the facility; determining, using the statistical model and the production data, a prediction of a target variable yt associated with operating conditions at the facility; and optimizing an action at the facility using the prediction of the target variable yt.
16. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, wherein yt is given by a function y=f(z)·x+g(z).
17. The computer-implemented system of claim 16, wherein f(z) satisfies f(z)≥0 for all z or f(z)≤0 for all z.
18. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, wherein the transactional data includes maintenance history data and the non-transactional data includes sensor measurements.
19. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, wherein the action is an optimizing action for optimizing a figure of merit, such as system reliability, availability, maintenance costs, or revenues.
20. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, wherein determining the prediction of the target variable yt is further based on market conditions including refinery utilizations, freight rates, supply/demand gaps, and exchange rates.
</claims>
</document>
