<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-01-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/25,A63F13/30,G09G5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HISCENE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUANG, MEI
LIAO, CHUNYUAN
TANG, RONGXING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59397470
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND DEVICES USED FOR IMPLEMENTING AUGMENTED REALITY INTERACTION AND DISPLAYING
</title>

<abstract>
An object of the present disclosure is to provide a method for implementing augmented reality interaction and presentation, a smart eyewear apparatus, a split-mount device, and a control device, wherein the smart eyewear apparatus implements a better user interaction experience with a linking between online information and offline information and a fusion of virtuality and reality by: establishing a communication connection with a split-mount device based on a communication protocol; transmitting relevant control information to the split-mount device based on the communication protocol; obtaining split-mount feedback data transmitted by the split-mount device based on the communication protocol; and presenting a corresponding augmented reality effect based on the split-mount feedback data, wherein the augmented reality effect includes a virtual image displayed in cooperation with a real scene, a voice effect played, and a vibration effect.
</abstract>

<claims>
I/We claim:
1. A method, at a smart eyewear apparatus end, for implementing augmented reality interaction and presentation, comprising: establishing a communication connection with a split-mount device based on a communication protocol; transmitting relevant control information to the split-mount device based on the communication protocol; obtaining split-mount feedback data transmitted by the split-mount device based on the communication protocol; and presenting a corresponding augmented reality effect based on the split-mount feedback data.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein presenting a corresponding augmented reality effect based on the split-mount feedback data, further comprises: parsing relevant information of the split-mount feedback data; and executing a corresponding business logic based on the relevant information of the split-mount feedback data to determine displaying information of the corresponding augmented reality effect.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein presenting a corresponding augmented reality effect based on the split-mount feedback data further comprises: transmitting the split-mount feedback data to a control device; and obtaining displaying information of the corresponding augmented reality effect determined by the control device through parsing the split-mount feedback data.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein transmitting relevant control information to the split-mount device based on the communication protocol, further comprises: obtaining multimodal scene information, the multimodal scene information including real scene information, virtual scene information, and user operation information, wherein the user operation information includes at least any one of the following: gesture information, voice information, perception information, and touch operation information; and processing the multimodal scene information to generate the relevant control information.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein transmitting relevant control information to the split-mount device based on the communication protocol, further comprises: obtaining multimodal scene information, the multimodal scene information including real scene information, virtual scene information, and user operation information, wherein the user operation information includes at least any one of the following: gesture information, voice information, perception information, and touch operation information; transmitting the multimodal scene information to the control device; and obtaining the relevant control information generated by the control device based on comprehensive processing of the multimodal scene information.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein presenting a corresponding augmented reality effect based on the split-mount feedback data, further comprises: transmitting, to the split-mount device, auxiliary control information for controlling the split-mount device to present an auxiliary effect.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein establishing a communication connection with a split-mount device based on a communication protocol, comprises: establishing a communication connection with the split-mount device in a wired or wireless manner based on the communication protocol.
8. A method, at a smart eyewear apparatus end, for implementing augmented reality interaction and presentation in driving monitoring, comprising: establishing a communication connection with a driving monitor split-mount device based on a communication protocol; transmitting relevant control information to the driving monitor split-mount device based on the communication protocol, wherein the relevant control information includes at least any one of the following: real-time positioning control information, real-time video recording control information, and real-time voice navigation control information; obtaining split-mount feedback data transmitted by the driving monitor split-mount device based on the communication protocol, the split-mount feedback data includes driving information obtained by the driving monitor split-mount device, wherein the driving information includes at least any one of the following: velocity information, barrier information, and pedestrian information; and performing a corresponding business logic based on the split-mount feedback data, and presenting a corresponding augmented reality effect based on an execution result of the business logic, wherein the business logic includes at least any one of the following: displaying key navigation information, and prompting barrier information or pedestrian information.
9. A method, at a smart eyewear apparatus end, for implementing augmented reality interaction and presentation in a game control, comprising: establishing a communication connection with a game control split-mount device based on a communication protocol; transmitting relevant control information to the game control split-mount device based on the communication protocol, wherein the relevant control information includes at least any one of the following: control information on acquiring perception data, and control information on displaying special effect; obtaining the split-mount feedback data transmitted by the game control split-mount device based on the communication protocol, wherein the split-mount feedback data includes game relevant information obtained by the game control split-mount device, wherein the game relevant information includes: user operation information; and executing a corresponding business logic based on the split-mount feedback data, and presenting a corresponding augmented reality effect related to the game based on an execution result of the business logic.
10. A method, at a split-mount device end, for cooperating to implement augmented reality interaction and presentation, comprising: establishing a communication connection with a smart eyewear apparatus based on a communication protocol; obtaining relevant control information transmitted by the smart eyewear apparatus based on the communication protocol; collecting acquired data based on the relevant control information, and analyzing the acquired data to generate split-mount feedback data; and transmitting the split-mount feedback data to the smart eyewear apparatus based on the communication protocol so as to cooperate with the smart eyewear apparatus to present a corresponding augmented reality effect.
11. The method according to claim 10, further comprising: obtaining auxiliary control information the smart eyewear apparatus executes the corresponding business logic based on the split-mount feedback data and transmits, and presenting a corresponding auxiliary effect based on the auxiliary control information, wherein the auxiliary effect includes at least any one of the following: auxiliary voice effect, auxiliary vibration effect, and auxiliary visual effect.
12. The method according to claim 10, wherein establishing a communication connection with a smart eyewear apparatus based on a communication protocol, comprises: establishing a communication connection with the smart eyewear apparatus in a wired or wireless manner based on the communication protocol.
13. The method according to claim 10, wherein collecting acquired data based on the relevant control information, and analyzing the acquired data to generate split-mount feedback data, comprises: collecting acquired data based on the relevant control information, wherein the acquired data include at least any one of the following: image acquisition data, data acquired for perception positioning, and voice acquisition data; and analyzing the acquired data and obtaining relevant information of the split-mount feedback data, wherein the relevant information of the split-mount feedback data includes at least any one of the following: priority information, presentation related information, and parameter information.
14. A method, at a control device end, for cooperating to implement augmented reality interaction and presentation, wherein the control device is physically detached from a smart eyewear apparatus, the method comprising: obtaining split-mount feedback data transmitted by the smart eyewear apparatus; parsing relevant information of the split-mount feedback data; and executing a corresponding business logic based on the relevant information of the split-mount feedback data to determine displaying information of an corresponding augmented reality effect, and transmitting the displaying information of the corresponding augmented reality effect to the smart eyewear apparatus.
15. The method according to claim 14, further comprising: obtaining multimodal scene information transmitted by the smart eyewear apparatus, wherein the multimodal scene information includes real scene information, virtual scene information, and user operation information obtained by the smart eyewear apparatus, and wherein the user operation information includes at least any one of the following: gesture information, voice information, perception information, and touch operation information; and processing the multimodal scene information to generate relevant control information, and transmitting the relevant control information to the smart eyewear apparatus.
16. The method according to claim 15, further comprising: obtaining touch operation information of a user on the control device; wherein processing the multimodal scene information to generate relevant control information, and transmitting the relevant control information to the smart eyewear apparatus, comprises: comprehensively processing the multimodal scene information and the touch operation information of the user on the control device so as to generate the relevant control information, and transmitting the relevant control information to the smart eyewear apparatus.
17. The method according to claim 14, further comprising: establishing a communication connection with the smart eyewear apparatus in a wired or wireless manner.
18. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium, including computer code, which, when being executed, causes a method according to claim 1 to be executed.
19. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium, including computer code, which, when being executed, causes a method according to claim 8 to be executed.
20. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium, including computer code, which, when being executed, causes a method according to claim 9 to be executed.
21. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium, including computer code, which, when being executed, causes a method according to claim 10 to be executed.
22. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium, including computer code, which, when being executed, causes a method according to claim 14 to be executed.
</claims>
</document>
