<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B13/02,G05B19/418,G05B23/02,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N3/00,G06N3/02,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N5/04,G06N7/00,H04B17/309,H04B17/318,H04L1/00,H04L1/18,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRONG FORCE IOT PORTFOLIO 2016
</assignee>

<inventors>
DESAI, MEHUL
DUFFY, JR., GERALD WILLIAM
CELLA, CHARLES HOWARD
MCGUCKIN, JEFFREY P.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63669288
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS UTILIZING NOISE ANALYSIS TO DETERMINE CONVEYOR PERFORMANCE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods utilizing noise analysis to analyze conveyor performance are disclosed. An example system for monitoring a plurality of components of a conveyor in an industrial environment may include a data acquisition circuit to interpret a plurality of detection values, each detection values corresponding to at least one of a plurality of input sensors operationally coupled to the conveyor. A data processing circuit may utilize at least one of the detection values to perform a noise processing operation on at least a portion of the detection values. A signal evaluation circuit may determine a conveyor performance parameter in response to the noise processed portion of the detection values and a response circuit may then perform at least one operation in response to the conveyor performance parameter.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for monitoring a plurality of components of a conveyor in an industrial environment, the system comprising; a data acquisition circuit structured to interpret a plurality of detection values, each of the plurality of detection values corresponding to at least one of a plurality of input sensors operationally coupled to the conveyor and communicatively coupled to the data acquisition circuit; a data processing circuit structured to utilize at least one of the plurality of detection values to perform at least one noise processing operation on at least a portion of the plurality of detection values; a signal evaluation circuit structured to determine a conveyor performance parameter in response to the noise processed portion of the plurality of detection values; and a response circuit structured to perform at least one operation in response to the conveyor performance parameter.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the data processing circuit is further structured to perform the at least one noise processing operation by performing at least one of: (i) analyze a noise in the at least one of the plurality of detection values, (ii) isolate a noise in the at least one of the plurality of detection values, or (iii) remove a noise from the at least one of the plurality of detection values.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the data processing circuit is further structured to perform the at least one noise processing operation by isolating a noise associated with vibration of a component of the conveyor to obtain a characteristic vibration fingerprint of the component of the conveyor.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the data processing circuit is further structured to perform the at least one noise processing operation by removing a known noise, wherein the known noise comprises at least one noise selected from a list consisting of: an ambient noise, a vibrational noise, a noise associated with a distinct process stage, a noise indicative of needed maintenance, a noise from an offset industrial environment, a noise from a component of the industrial environment vibrationally coupled to the conveyor, a characteristic vibration fingerprint of an offset industrial environment, a characteristic vibration fingerprint of a component of the industrial environment vibrationally coupled to the conveyor, and a noise associated with a local environment of the conveyor.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the data processing circuit is further structured to perform the at least one noise processing operation by removing a known noise, wherein the known noise comprises at least one of a noise from an offset industrial environment or a characteristic vibration fingerprint of an offset industrial environment, and wherein the offset industrial environment comprises at least one aspect selected from the list of aspects consisting of: an offset conveyor of the same model as the conveyor, an offset conveyor from a same manufacturer as the conveyor, an offset conveyor at a same location as the conveyor, a distinct component vibrationally coupled to the conveyor, an offset conveyor operated by a common operating entity of the conveyor, an offset conveyor operated by a competing entity of an operating entity of the conveyor, an offset conveyor having a similar local environment to a local environment of the conveyor, and historical data corresponding to any one of the foregoing.
6. The system of claim 3, further comprising a data marketplace circuit structured to store at least a portion of the characteristic vibration fingerprint of the component of the conveyor on a data marketplace, wherein the data marketplace circuit is self-organized and automated.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the data processing circuit further comprises a band pass filter.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the response circuit is further structured to vary the band pass filter based on a parameter of the conveyor.
9. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a data storage circuit structured to store at least one of specifications, system geometry, or anticipated state information for the conveyor and associated rotating components, to store historical performance for the conveyor and associated rotating components, and to buffer the plurality of detection values for a predetermined length of time; a bearing analysis circuit structured to determine a bearing performance parameter in response to a comparison of the buffered detection values to bearing specifications and anticipated state information for a bearing; and wherein the signal evaluation circuit is further structured to determine the conveyor performance parameter further in response to the bearing performance parameter.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the signal evaluation circuit is further structured to determine the conveyor performance parameter further in response to at least one of an anticipated state of the conveyor, historical detection values, or a geometry of the industrial environment.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of input sensors measures at least attribute selected from a list of attributes consisting of: temperature of bearings, vibration of driveshafts, vibration of rollers, rate of rotation of rollers, velocity of the conveyor, and acceleration of rollers.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of input sensors is positioned at a location selected from a list of locations consisting of: a landing point of the conveyor, a horizontal members connecting landing points of the conveyor; a segment handoff point of the conveyor; a motor mount; and a roller mount of the conveyor.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the signal evaluation circuit comprises a frequency transformation circuit and a phase lock loop circuit structured to align at least one of the plurality of detection values from a first part of the conveyor with at least one of the plurality of detection values from a second part of the conveyor.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the conveyor performance parameter indicates at least one condition selected from a list of conditions consisting of: torsion on a driveshaft, a potential bearing failure, and an uneven conveyance.
15. A method for monitoring a plurality of components of a conveyor in an industrial environment, the method comprising; interpreting a plurality of detection values, each of the plurality of detection values corresponding to at least one of a plurality of input sensors operationally coupled to the conveyor; performing at least one noise processing operation on at least a portion of the plurality of detection values; determining a conveyor performance parameter in response to the at least one noise processing operation; and performing at least one operation in response to the conveyor performance parameter.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein performing the at least one noise processing operation comprises analyzing a noise of at least one of the plurality of detection values.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein performing the at least one noise processing operation comprises isolating a noise in at least one of the plurality of detection values.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein performing the at least one noise processing operation comprises removing a known noise in at least one of the plurality of detection values.
19. The method of claim 15, the method further comprising: transforming a first portion of the plurality of detection values corresponding to a first part of the conveyor into the frequency domain comprising a first phase value; transforming a second portion of the plurality of detection values corresponding to a second part of the conveyor into the frequency domain comprising a second phase value; determining a relative phase difference between the first phase value and the second phase value; and determining the conveyor performance parameter further in response to the relative phase difference.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the transformed first portion of the plurality of detection values further comprises at least one first amplitude value corresponding to at least one first frequency value, wherein the transformed second portion of the plurality of detection values further comprises at least one second amplitude value corresponding to at least one second frequency value, and wherein determining the conveyor performance parameter is further in response to at least one of a first difference between the first amplitude value and the second amplitude value, or a second difference between the first frequency value and the second frequency value.
21. The method of claim 18, wherein removing a known noise comprises removing at least one noise selected from a list consisting of: an ambient noise, a vibrational noise, a noise associated with a distinct process stage, a noise indicative of needed maintenance, a noise from an offset industrial environment, a noise from a component of the industrial environment vibrationally coupled to the conveyor, a characteristic vibration fingerprint of an offset industrial environment, a characteristic vibration fingerprint of a component of the industrial environment vibrationally coupled to the conveyor, and a noise associated with a local environment of the conveyor.
</claims>
</document>
