<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63B24/00,G06F3/16,G06K9/00,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUMAR, PRATYUSH
JAIN, MOHIT
AGARWAL, ANUP
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70162142
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Exercise Monitoring and Coaching Using Audio Devices
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and computer program products for exercise monitoring and coaching using audio devices are provided herein. A computer-implemented method includes processing a first set of one or more auditory prompts, wherein the first set of auditory prompts pertains to initiation of at least one activity with respect to a user; detecting, in connection with the first set of auditory prompts, one or more sets of movements being performed by the user, wherein said detecting comprises (i) emitting one or more acoustic waves towards the user and (ii) processing reflection of the one or more acoustic waves from the user; classifying, based on said detecting, the one or more sets of movements as one or more predefined exercises; and generating and outputting a second set of auditory prompts to the user, wherein the second set of auditory prompts pertains to the predefined exercises being performed by the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising steps of: processing a first set of one or more auditory prompts, wherein the first set of auditory prompts pertains to initiation of at least one activity with respect to a user; detecting, in connection with the first set of auditory prompts, one or more sets of movements being performed by the user, wherein said detecting comprises (i) emitting one or more acoustic waves towards the user and (ii) processing reflection of the one or more acoustic waves from the user; classifying, based on said detecting, the one or more sets of movements as one or more predefined exercises; and generating and outputting a second set of one or more auditory prompts to the user, wherein the second set of auditory prompts pertains to the one or more predefined exercises being performed by the user; wherein the steps are carried out by at least one computing device.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first set of auditory prompts comprises an instruction, generated and output by the at least one computing device, to perform one or more given exercises.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first set of auditory prompts comprises an instruction, generated and output by the at least one computing device, to take a break from one or more ongoing activities.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first set of auditory prompts comprises one or more instructions provided by the user.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said processing the first set of auditory prompts comprises generating and outputting the first set of auditory prompts to the user upon determining that the user has been (i) in the vicinity of the at least one computing device for a given duration of time and (ii) not physically active for the given duration of time.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said detecting comprises implementing one or more beamforming methods.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said detecting comprises measuring a shift in the frequency of the one or more acoustic waves, the shift corresponding to at least a portion of the one or more sets of movements performed by the user.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said detecting comprises measuring a shift in the phase of the one or more acoustic waves, the shift corresponding to at least a portion of the one or more sets of movements performed by the user.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said detecting is carried out at a given distance from the user.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more acoustic waves are inaudible to humans.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: counting, based on said detecting, the number of repetitions of each of the one or more exercises being performed by the user.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the second set of auditory prompts comprises one or more audible counts of exercise repetitions being performed by the user.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the second set of auditory prompts comprises one or more words of encouragement.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the second set of auditory prompts comprises feedback on the user's performance of the one or more predefined exercises.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one computing device comprises one or more cognitive assistant devices.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: tracking one or more exercise patterns of the user based at least in part on the one or more predefined exercises being performed by the user.
17. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to: process a first set of one or more auditory prompts, wherein the first set of auditory prompts pertains to initiation of at least one activity with respect to a user; detect, in connection with the first set of auditory prompts, one or more sets of movements being performed by the user, wherein said detecting comprises (i) emitting one or more acoustic waves towards the user and (ii) processing reflection of the one or more acoustic waves from the user; classify, based on said detecting, the one or more sets of movements as one or more predefined exercises; and generate and output a second set of one or more auditory prompts to the user, wherein the second set of auditory prompts pertains to the one or more predefined exercises being performed by the user.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the program instructions executable by a computing device further cause the computing device to: track one or more exercise patterns of the user based at least in part on the one or more predefined exercises being performed by the user.
19. A system comprising: a memory; and at least one processor operably coupled to the memory and configured for: processing a first set of one or more auditory prompts, wherein the first set of auditory prompts pertains to initiation of at least one activity with respect to a user; detecting, in connection with the first set of auditory prompts, one or more sets of movements being performed by the user, wherein said detecting comprises (i) emitting one or more acoustic waves towards the user and (ii) processing reflection of the one or more acoustic waves from the user; classifying, based on said detecting, the one or more sets of movements as one or more predefined exercises; and generating and outputting a second set of one or more auditory prompts to the user, wherein the second set of auditory prompts pertains to the one or more predefined exercises being performed by the user.
20. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising steps of: processing a first set of one or more auditory prompts, wherein the first set of auditory prompts pertains to initiation of at least one activity with respect to a user; detecting, in connection with the first set of auditory prompts, one or more sets of movements being performed by the user, wherein said detecting comprises (i) emitting a first set of one or more acoustic waves towards the user and (ii) processing reflection of the first set of one or more acoustic waves from the user; generating and outputting a second set of one or more auditory prompts to the user, based on said detecting, wherein the second set of auditory prompts comprises an instruction for the user to adjust the position of one or more body parts; detecting, in connection with the second set of auditory prompts, one or more sets of movements being performed by the user, wherein said detecting comprises (i) emitting a second set of one or more acoustic waves towards the user and (ii) processing reflection of the second set of one or more acoustic waves from the user; classifying, based on said detecting in connection with the second set of auditory prompts, the one or more sets of movements as one or more predefined exercises; and generating and outputting a third set of one or more auditory prompts to the user, wherein the third set of auditory prompts pertains to the one or more predefined exercises being performed by the user; wherein the steps are carried out by at least one computing device.
</claims>
</document>
