<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W40/09,B60W50/00,B60W50/14,B60W50/16,B60W60/00,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COBALT INDUSTRIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SOBHANY, RANA JUNE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71733367
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR VERIFYING AND MONITORING DRIVER PHYSICAL ATTENTION
</title>

<abstract>
A processor associated with a vehicle receives sensor data from a plurality of sensors in the vehicle. Each sensor is configured to measure a different parameter of a driver of the vehicle. The processor applies a model to the received sensor data, which when applied causes the processor to output a determination, based on the parameters of the driver, of attentiveness of the driver to driving the vehicle. Responsive to the determination indicating the driver is not attentive to driving the vehicle, the processor causes the vehicle to output an alert to the driver or to automatically control a driving function of the vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
I/we claim:
1. A method comprising: receiving at a processor associated with a vehicle, sensor data from a plurality of sensors in the vehicle, each sensor configured to measure a different parameter of a driver of the vehicle; applying, by the processor, a model to the received sensor data, the model when applied to the received sensor data causing the processor to output a determination, based on the parameters of the driver, of attentiveness of the driver to driving the vehicle; and responsive to the determination indicating the driver is not attentive to driving the vehicle, causing, by the processor, the vehicle to automatically control a driving function of the vehicle.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the model includes one or more rules that cause the processor to determine the driver is not attentive if the received sensor data satisfies a condition in the one or more rules.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the model is a trained machine learning model that receives the parameters of the driver as inputs and causes the processor to output the attentiveness of the driver.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the machine learning model is periodically retrained using historical data associated with the driver, the historical data including one or more parameters of the driver measured at each of a plurality of times and a determination of the attentiveness of the driver at the corresponding time.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein causing the vehicle to automatically control a driving function of the vehicle comprises causing the vehicle to control at least one of a speed or a position of the vehicle based on real-time feedback of an environment around the vehicle.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising causing the vehicle to output an alert to the driver responsive to the determination that the driver is not attentive.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the determination of the attentiveness of the driver is a level of attentiveness selected from a plurality of possible levels of attentiveness, and wherein the processor causes the vehicle to output the alert if the attentiveness of the driver is determined to be a first level of attentiveness and causes the vehicle to automatically control the driving function if the attentiveness of the driver is determined to be a second level of attentiveness.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the determination of the attentiveness of the driver includes a determination of an amount of time the driver is attentive or inattentive, and wherein the processor causes the vehicle to output the alert if the amount of time the driver is inattentive exceeds a first threshold amount of time and causes the vehicle to automatically control the driving function if the amount of time the driver is inattentive exceeds a second threshold amount of time.
9. A vehicle comprising: a plurality of sensors each configured to measure a different parameter of a driver of a vehicle; a processor coupled to the plurality of sensors to receive data associated with the parameters of the driver; and a non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing executable instructions, the instructions when executed by the processor causing the processor to: apply a model to the data received from the plurality of sensors, the model when applied causing the processor to output a determination, based on the parameters of the driver, of whether the driver is attentive to driving the vehicle; and responsive to the determination indicating the driver is not attentive, output an alert to the driver.
10. The vehicle of claim 9, further comprising a vehicle control system configured to control one or more driving functions of the vehicle automatically based on real-time feedback of an environment around the vehicle, and wherein the instructions further cause the processor to cause the vehicle control system to control at least one driving function of the vehicle responsive to the determination indicating the driver is not attentive.
11. The vehicle of claim 10, wherein the determination of whether the driver is attentive comprises determining a level of attentiveness selected from a plurality of possible levels of attentiveness, and wherein the processor causes the vehicle to output the alert if the attentiveness of the driver is determined to be a first level of attentiveness and causes the vehicle to automatically control the driving function if the attentiveness of the driver is determined to be a second level of attentiveness.
12. The vehicle of claim 10, wherein the determination of whether the driver is attentive comprises determining an amount of time the driver is attentive or inattentive, and wherein the processor causes the vehicle to output the alert if the amount of time the driver is inattentive exceeds a first threshold amount of time and causes the vehicle to automatically control the driving function if the amount of time the driver is inattentive exceeds a second threshold amount of time.
13. The vehicle of claim 9, wherein the model includes one or more rules that cause the processor to determine the driver is not attentive if the received sensor data satisfies a condition in the one or more rules.
14. The vehicle of claim 9, wherein the model is a trained machine learning model that receives the parameters of the driver as inputs and causes the processor to output the attentiveness of the driver.
15. The vehicle of claim 14, wherein the machine learning model is periodically retrained using historical data associated with the driver, the historical data including one or more parameters of the driver measured at each of a plurality of times and a determination of the attentiveness of the driver at the corresponding time.
16. The vehicle of claim 9, wherein causing the vehicle to automatically control a driving function of the vehicle comprises causing the vehicle to control at least one of a speed or a position of the vehicle based on real-time feedback of an environment around the vehicle.
17. The vehicle of claim 9, wherein the alert comprises at least one of an audible signal, a visual signal, or a tactile signal.
18. The vehicle of claim 9, wherein the instructions cause the processor to apply the model to determine whether the driver is attentive to driving the vehicle when the vehicle is operated in a self-driving mode.
19. The vehicle of claim 9, further comprising a car network communicatively coupled to the processor and the plurality of sensors, wherein the sensors output the data associated with the parameters of the driver to the car network and the processor receives the data from the car network.
20. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing executable instructions, the instructions when executed by a processor causing the processor to: receive sensor data from a plurality of sensors in the vehicle, each sensor configured to measure a different parameter of a driver of the vehicle; apply a model to the received sensor data, the model when applied to the received sensor data causing the processor to output a determination, based on the parameters of the driver, of attentiveness of the driver to driving the vehicle; and responsive to the determination indicating the driver is not attentive to driving the vehicle, cause the vehicle to automatically control a driving function of the vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
