<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B01J19/00,C07C273/04,G05B13/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
YARA INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
PORRO, Lino Giovanni
SIEPMANN, Volker
BURGATO, Elisa
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61274045
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VIRTUAL SENSING METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR CONTROLLING A COMPOSITION VARIABLE IN A UREA PRODUCTION PROCESS
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to a virtual sensing method and system for controlling at least one composition variable in a urea production process, based on a plurality of online measured process variables and a model, wherein the model is used to estimate, during the urea production process, the at least one composition variable indicative of a urea content on the basis of the plurality of online measured process variables, and modifying at least one of the plurality of online measured process variables for ensuring that a value of the at least one composition variable is within a predetermined range. The invention also relates to determining the model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A virtual sensing method for controlling at least one composition variable in a urea production process, exclusively based on a plurality of online measured process variables and a model, wherein the model is used to estimate, during the urea production process, the at least one composition variable, on the basis of the plurality of online measured process variables, wherein the method includes modifying at least one of the plurality of online measured process variables for ensuring that a value of the at least one composition variable is within a predetermined range, wherein the model is obtainable by: retrieving, over a first period of time during the urea production process, a plurality of online measurement data relating to a plurality of predetermined process variables by means of a plurality of sensors arranged in the urea synthesis plant, the plurality of predetermined process variables comprising at least one of the group consisting of a flow rate, a liquid level, a temperature, and a pressure; retrieving, at time points within the first period of time, a plurality of offline measurement data of the at least one composition variable; and processing the plurality of online and offline measurement data and performing a statistical analysis for identifying the model for predicting the at least one composition variable on the basis of the plurality of predetermined process variables.
2. Method according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of online measured process variables obtained by means of online measurements over a second period of time, different from the first period of time, are provided as inputs to the identified model, wherein the model provides as an output at least one predicted composition variable, which is being controlled.
3. Method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein gathered sensor data from online measurements are stored in a data store, wherein a reduced data set is obtained from the data store, wherein the model is identified based on the reduced data set, the model providing a correlation between the reduced data set and the at least one composition variable.
4. Method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the composition variable is at least one of the group comprising a N/C ratio defined as a ratio between a total equivalent NH3 and a total equivalent CO2, a H/C ratio defined as a ratio between a total equivalent H2O and a total equivalent CO2, and/or an extent of reaction (or carbon dioxide conversion) defined as a ratio between urea and total equivalent CO2.
5. Method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein a set of 2 to 6 process variables is used.
6. Method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the process variable is at least one of the group comprising a CO2 feed flow, CO2 flow to CO2 stripper, a passivation air flow to reactor, a passivation air flow to any stripper, a carbamate recycle flow to carbamate condenser, a carbamate recycle flow to HP scrubber, a steam flow from carbamate condenser, a total flow of NH3, a flow of NH3 to carbamate condenser, a flow of NH3 to carbamate ejector, a flow of NH3 to reactor, a steam consumption of thermal stripper, a steam consumption to CO2 stripper, steam to (any) strippers pressure, synthesis pressure at reactor top, carbamate condenser steam pressure, pressure of NH3 feed, CO2 stripper vapor exit temperature, CO2 stripper liquid exit temperature, temperature of NH3 feed, temperature carbamate, temperature at reactor top, temperature of middle of reactor, temperature of urea solution from reactor, temperature of bottom of reactor, thermal stripper vapor exit temperature, thermal stripper liquid exit temperature, pressure difference in urea reactor outlet valve, liquid level in reactor, liquid level in HP Scrubber, liquid level in HP Separator.
7. Method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein a set of process variables is used including at least one or more reactor temperatures and a steam flow to a thermal stripper.
8. Method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein a set of process variables is used including at least three of a group consisting of a steam consumption of a first NH3 stripper, a temperature of the urea solution from a reactor, a temperature of the gas outlet of a second NH3 stripper, a temperature of a NH3 feed, a temperature in the middle of the reactor, and a temperature at the reactor top.
9. Method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the statistical analysis comprises an algorithm for performing a principal component analysis or a partial least squares analysis.
10. Method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the urea production process is a CO2 stripping process and/or thermal stripping process, such as an isobaric double recycle process.
11. Method for obtaining a model for controlling at least one composition variable in a urea production process, the method comprising the steps of: retrieving, over a first period of time during the urea production process, a plurality of online measurement data relating to a plurality of predetermined process variables by means of a plurality of sensors arranged in the urea synthesis plant, the plurality of predetermined process variables comprising at least one of the group consisting of a flow rate, a liquid level, a temperature, and a pressure; retrieving, at time points within the first period of time, a plurality of offline measurement data of at least one composition variable; and processing the plurality of online and offline measurement data and performing a statistical analysis for identifying the model for predicting the at least one composition variable on the basis of the plurality of predetermined process variables.
12. Method according to claim 11, further including performing simulated annealing for identifying a selection of process variables used with the model, wherein the simulated annealing comprises determining a plurality of process variable sets with different combinations of process variables, and evaluating, for each of the plurality of the process variable sets, a quality of prediction of the at least one composition variable, wherein the process variable set providing the highest quality of prediction of the at least one composition variable is selected for use with the model.
13. A system including a controller configured for controlling at least one composition variable in a urea production process, based on a plurality of online measured process variables and a model, wherein the controller is configured to use the model for estimating, during the urea production process, the at least one composition variable indicative of a urea content on the basis of the plurality of online measured process variables for ensuring that a value of the at least one composition variable is within a predetermined range, wherein the model is obtainable by: retrieving, over a first period of time during the urea production process, a plurality of online measurement data relating to a plurality of predetermined process variables by means of a plurality of sensors arranged in the urea synthesis plant, the plurality of predetermined process variables comprising at least one of the group consisting of a flow rate, a liquid level, a temperature, and a pressure; retrieving, at time point within the first period of time, a plurality of offline measurement data of at least one composition variable; and processing the plurality of online and offline measurement data and performing a statistical analysis for identifying the model for predicting the at least one composition variable on the basis of the plurality of predetermined process variables.
14. A system for obtaining a model for controlling at least one composition variable in a urea production process, the system comprising a controller configured to perform the steps of: retrieving, over a first period of time during the urea production process, a plurality of online measurement data relating to a plurality of predetermined process variables by means of a plurality of sensors arranged in the urea synthesis plant, the plurality of predetermined process variables comprising at least one of the group consisting of a flow rate, a liquid level, a temperature, and a pressure; retrieving, at time points within the first period of time, a plurality of offline measurement data of at least one composition variable; and processing the plurality of online and offline measurement data and performing a statistical analysis for identifying the model for predicting the at least one composition variable on the basis of the plurality of predetermined process variables.
15. A computer system comprising a processor, a memory coupled to the processor, wherein the memory stores a program that, when executed by the processor, causes the processor to perform the method according to any one of the claims 1 to 12.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing a program that, when executed by processor, causes the processor to perform the method according to any one of the claims 1 to 12.
</claims>
</document>
