<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-10-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/28,H04L29/06,H04L29/08,H04L29/14,H04W12/00,H04W12/04,H04W12/06,H04W84/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
LOGUE, JAY, D.
STEBBINS, ANDREW WILLIAM
TINKOFF, ROGER LOREN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55314811
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Network-assisted fabric pairing
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for joining a device to a fabric using an assisting device include an indication to add a joining device to a fabric. If the joining device supports network-assisted fabric pairing, a first connection is established between a commissioning device and the assisting device. The assisting device also connects to a joining device. Through the assisting device, the commissioning device and the joining device establish a communication channel over which fabric credentials may be sent.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for joining a device to a fabric, comprising: receiving an indication to add a joining device to a fabric; determining whether the joining device supports network-assisted fabric pairing; and if the joining device supports network-assisted fabric pairing: establishing a first secure communication channel with an assisting device, wherein the assisting device is configured to assist the joining device in joining the fabric; in response to receiving the indication to add the joining device to the fabric, instructing the assisting device to place a local area network in a joinable mode from a non-joinable mode; establishing a second secure communication channel as a tunneled connection that extends to the joining device through the assisting device from a commissioning device, wherein the commissioning device is configured to manage joining of devices to the fabric on which the electronic device resides; and sending fabric credentials for the fabric to be joined by the joining device via the second secure communication channel.
2. The method of claim 1, comprising obtaining the fabric credentials from the assisting device for the fabric to be joined through the first secure communication channel before sending the fabric credentials to the joining device via the second secure communication channel if the joining device supports network-assisted fabric pairing.
3. The method of claim 1, comprising: obtaining local area network credentials from the assisting device for the local area network on which the assisting device resides; and sending the local area network credentials to the joining device via the second secure communication channel.
4. The method of claim 1, comprising: authenticating to a remote service using account information; and receiving, from the remote service, authentication credentials including a fabric authentication token, wherein establishing the second secure communication channel comprises establishing a secure connection with the assisting device using the received fabric authentication token and a Certificate Authenticated Session Establishment (CASE) protocol.
5. The method of claim 1, comprising: receive receiving a device identifier for the joining device; determining whether the device identifier is valid; and if the device identifier is not valid, stopping the joining device from being network-assisted fabric paired.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein receiving the device identifier comprises receiving a code located on the joining device, and wherein determining whether the device identifier is valid comprises: determining whether the device identifier comprises a valid check digit; or determining whether the device identifier comprises a value expected for the device identifier.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein determining whether the joining device supports network-assisted fabric pairing comprises: receiving an indication of a device type for the joining device; determining whether the device type supports network-assisted fabric-pairing; receiving an indication of a software version running on the joining device; and determining whether the software version supports network-assisted fabric pairing.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein receiving an indication of the device type for the joining device comprises: receiving an explicit selection of a device type for the joining device; or determining a device type for the joining device from the device identifier of the joining device.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the local area network comprises an 802.15.4 network, and the establishing the first secure communication channel comprises establishing a connection via an 802.11 network, and the tunneled connection extends through portions of the 802.15.4 network and the 802.11 network.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the tunneled connection provides communication from the commissioning device to the joining device since the commissioning device and the joining device do not communicate over a common network type during joining the joining device to the fabric.
11. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing instructions, which when executed, are configured to cause a processor to: receive an indication to add a joining device to a fabric; connect to an assisting device through a first local area network, wherein the assisting device is configured to assist the joining device in joining to a fabric on which the assisting device resides; instruct the assisting device to connect to the joining device and to assist the joining device in joining the fabric by enabling a tunneled connection to the joining device from a commissioning device through the assisting device, wherein the commissioning device is configured to manage joining of devices to the fabric; in response to receiving the indication to add the joining device to the fabric, instructing the assisting device to place a second local area network in a joinable mode from a non-joinable mode; and securely connecting to the joining device through the assisting device using the tunneled connection, wherein the connection to the joining device comprises a first portion to the assisting device that passes through the first local area network and a second portion between the assisting device and the joining device via the second local area network; and send fabric credentials for the fabric to be joined by the joining device via the tunneled connection.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions are configured to cause the processor to: determine if the fabric exists; if the fabric does not exist cancel the fabric joining and send an indication of failure of joining a fabric by indicating that a fabric is to be created; and if the fabric exists, select an appropriate assisting device to assist in joining the joining device to the fabric.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein selecting the appropriate assisting device comprises: determining if any potential assisting devices are not sleepy devices, wherein sleepy devices periodically enter a low power state, and potential assisting devices are devices which have the capability of serving as an assisting device in joining the joining device to the fabric; and if any potential assisting devices are not sleepy devices, using a not sleepy device of the not sleepy devices as the assisting device.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein selecting the appropriate assisting device comprises: if all the potential assisting devices are sleepy devices, determining if any of the potential assisting devices may be remotely awoken from the low-power state; if any of the potential assisting devices may be remotely awoken from the low-power state, using a remotely-awakeable potential assisting device as the assisting device in joining the joining device to the fabric; if none of the potential assisting devices may be remotely awoken, instructing manual wakening of any assisting device of the potential assisting devices.
15. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions are configured to cause the processor to obtain the fabric credentials from the assisting device for the fabric to be joined through the first local area network, and wherein the first local area network comprises an 802.15.4 network and the second local area network comprises an 802.11 network.
16. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein instructing the assisting device to place the place the second local area network in a joinable mode comprises instructing the assisting device to monitor for connections via an unsecured port on the second local area network.
17. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions are configured to cause the processor to: before securely connecting to the joining device, cause the joining device to be awakened by instructing a user to manually awaken the joining device; and authenticating the joining device using a pairing code that corresponds to the device identifier.
18. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions are configured to cause the processor to: determine if the joining device has capability to join the first local area network; after securely connecting to the joining device, send credentials for the first local area network; and if receiving a notice of failure to join from the joining device, resending the credentials or sending another set of credentials to the joining device.
19. An electronic device comprising: a first network interface configured to couple to a first local area network having a first local area network type; a second network interface configured to couple to a second local area network having a second local area network type; memory; a processor configured to: a processor; and a memory comprising instructions executable by the processor to configure the electronic device to: establish a first connection with a commissioning device over the first local area network, wherein the commissioning device is configured to manage joining of devices to a fabric on which the electronic device resides; receive instructions from the commissioning device to assist in joining a joining device to the fabric; in response to receiving to assist in joining the joining device to the fabric, placing the second local area network in a joinable mode from a non-joinable mode; connect to the joining device via the second local area network; and facilitate a secure tunnel that extends through the electronic device between the joining device and the commissioning device through which fabric credentials are sent to enable the joining device to join the fabric.
20. The electronic device of claim 19, wherein connecting to the joining device comprises monitor monitoring for communications through an unsecured port on the second network interface, wherein the first local area network type comprises 802.15.4.
21. The electronic device of claim 19, wherein facilitating the secure tunnel comprises: the instructions to facilitate the secure tunnel are executable by the processor to configure the electronic device to: receiving receive a first set of communications from the commissioning device via the first local area network and forwarding the first set of communications to the joining device via the second local area network; receiving receive a second set of communications from the joining device via the second local area network and forwarding the second set of communications to the commissioning device via the first local area network, wherein the first and second set of communications are encrypted using session keys negotiated between the commissioning device and the joining device.
</claims>
</document>
