<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H50/20,G16H50/30,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDICUS AI GMBH
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAWAS, Mouhamad
ASMAR, Karl
SALEH, Makram
NEHME, Nadine
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70285705
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DATA GENERATING AND TRANSMITTING DATA
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a method, comprising operating an end user computer device, performing a storing step (SS). The storing step comprises storing user input data, at least one of a user location set and a third party set, analysis model data, and display data on a data storage component of the end user computer device. The method further comprises performing an analysis step (AS), wherein the analysis step comprises a generation of an estimation of a probability of a medical condition of the user, wherein the generation of the estimation is performed based on the analysis model data, and wherein the generation of the estimation comprises processing the user location set. The method further comprises performing a contact establishment step (CS), which comprises establishing a connection, and wherein the contact establishment step is performed based on the generated estimation. Furthermore, a system comprising an end user computer device is disclosed. The end user computer device is configured for carrying out the disclosed method. The end user computer device furthermore comprises a data storage component, a communication component and an analysis step module, wherein the analysis step module is configured for performing the analysis step.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising
operating an end user computer device;
performing a storing step (SS), wherein the storing step comprises storing user input data, at least one of a user location set and a third party set, wherein the third party set comprises an indication of at least one trusted third party(s), analysis model data, and display data on a data storage component of the end user computer device; performing an analysis step (AS), wherein the analysis step comprises a generation of an estimation of a probability of a medical condition of the user, wherein the generation of the estimation is performed based on the analysis model data, and wherein the generation of the estimation comprises processing the user location set; and performing a contact establishment step (CS), comprising establishing a connection, wherein the contact establishment step is performed based on the generated estimation.
2. The method according to the preceding claim,
wherein the analysis model data are specific to at least one of a geographical area and the indication of the trusted third party(s).
3. The method according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein the storing step comprises storing medical environment data, and wherein the generation of the estimation comprises processing the user location set and the medical environment data.
4. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the contact establishment step (CS) further comprises triggering a step of taking a medical sample from the user, and wherein the contact establishment step comprises determining the other party(s) of the connection based on at least one of the indication of the at least one trusted third party(s), and the user location set, particularly a current location of the user.
5. The method according to any of the preceding claims, preferably according to claim 3, wherein the method comprises performing a downloading step (DS), and wherein the downloading step comprises receiving an updated portion of the display data and/or the medical environment data.
6. The method according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein comprises performing a monitoring step (MS), wherein the monitoring step comprises generating the estimation of a probability of a medical condition of the user, and wherein the contact establishment step is performed based on the generated estimation of at least one of the monitoring step and the analysis step.
7. The method according to the preceding claim,
wherein the storing step comprises storing at least one of medical user data and sensed physiological data, and
wherein the monitoring step comprises analysing changes in at least one of the medical user data and the sensed physiological data.
8. The method according to any of the preceding claims,
wherein the method comprises performing an uploading step (US), wherein the uploading step (US) comprises uploading data to an intermediary server system, and wherein the method comprises receiving instruction data from the intermediary server.
9. The method according to the preceding claim, wherein the instruction data comprise an uploading criterion, and wherein the uploading criterion relates to at least one of the user location set, the user input data and the medical user data on the end user computer device.
10. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the method comprises a data receiving step (DR), wherein the data receiving step (DR) comprises at least one of
(a) receiving at least a portion of the medical user data from a measurement data processing system, and
(b) receiving sensed physiological data from a sensing device that is connected to the end user computer device.
11. A system, comprising an end user computer device, wherein the end user computer device is configured for carrying out the method according to any of the claims 1-10, wherein the end user computer device comprises a data storage component, a communication component and an analysis step module, wherein the analysis step module is configured for performing the analysis step according to any of the preceding claims.
12. The system according to the preceding claim, wherein the end user computer device comprises a contact establishment module, which contact establishment module is configured for performing the contact establishment step according to any of the claims 1-10, and for controlling the communication component.
13. The system according to any of the two preceding claims, wherein the end user computer device further comprises a downloading step module, wherein the downloading step module is configured for data exchange by means of the communication component, and wherein the downloading step module is configured for performing the downloading step according to any of the claims 5-10.
14. The system according to any of the three preceding claims, wherein the end user computer device comprises a monitoring step module, wherein the monitoring step module is configured for performing the monitoring step according to any of the claims 6- 10.
15. The system according to any of the four preceding claims, wherein the end user computer device comprises an uploading step module, and wherein the uploading step module is configured for data exchange by means of the communication component.
</claims>
</document>
