<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/593,H04N5/225
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANSARI, SAMEER
CHEN, JIAWEN
GARG, RAHUL
KNAAN, YAEL
LEVOY, MARC
WADHWA, NEAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69528980
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEPTH PREDICTION FROM DUAL PIXEL IMAGES
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus and methods related to using machine learning to determine depth maps for dual pixel images of objects are provided. A computing device can receive a dual pixel image of at least a foreground object. The dual pixel image can include a plurality of dual pixels. A dual pixel of the plurality of dual pixels can include a left-side pixel and a right-side pixel that both represent light incident on a single dual pixel element used to capture the dual pixel image. The computing device can be used to train a machine learning system to determine a depth map associated with the dual pixel image. The computing device can provide the trained machine learning system.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising:
receiving, at a computing device, a dual pixel image of at least a foreground object, the dual pixel image comprising a plurality of dual pixels, wherein a dual pixel of the plurality of dual pixels comprises a left-side pixel and a right-side pixel that both represent light incident on a single dual pixel element used to capture the dual pixel image;
training a machine learning system to determine a depth map associated with the dual pixel image using the computing device; and
providing the trained machine learning system using the computing device.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein training the machine learning system to determine the depth map comprises training the machine learning system to determine the depth map based on a loss function that comprises an affine mapping of an estimate of the depth map.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, where training the machine learning system to determine the depth map based on the loss function comprises training the machine learning system to determine the depth map based on a loss function that comprises a difference between the affine mapping of the estimate of the depth map and a reference depth map.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the foreground object has a first object Ape, and wherein training the machine learning system to determine the depth map comprises training the machine learning system to determine the depth map using a plurality of images of objects having the first object type.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the first object Ape is associated with a face of a person.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving, at the computing device, the dual pixel image of at least the foreground object comprises: obtaining a plurality of dual pixel images of at least the foreground object within a threshold period of time using a multi-camera device, each image of the plurality of dual pixel images comprising a plurality of dual pixels, wherein the multi-camera device comprises a plurality of cameras; and
receiving, at the computing device, the plurality of dual pixel images of at least the foreground object.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein each of the plurality of cameras of the multi-camera device comprises a system clock, and wherein obtaining the plurality of dual pixel images of the foreground object using the multi-camera device comprises:
determining a master camera of the plurality of cameras of the multi-camera device, the master camera having a master clock;
at each camera of the plurality of cameras of the multi-camera device other than the master camera, determining an offset between the system clock of the camera and the master clock;
determining a maximum offset of the offsets of the plurality of cameras;
at the master camera, sending a message to each of the plurality of cameras of the multi-camera device other than the master camera to capture a dual pixel image at a future trigger time, wherein the future trigger time is greater than the maximum offset; and
capturing, by each of the plurality of cameras of the multi-camera device at the future trigger time, a dual pixel image of the foreground object.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein sending the message to each of the plurality of cameras of the multi-camera device other than the master camera to capture a dual pixel image at the future trigger time comprises sending a repeating request to each of the plurality of cameras of the multi-camera device other than the master camera to peri odically capture a plurality of dual pixel images starting at the future trigger time; and wherein capturing, by each of the plurality of cameras of the multi-camera device at the future trigger time, a dual pixel image of the foreground object comprises periodically capturing, by each of the plurality of cameras of the multi-camera device starting at the future trigger time, a plurality of dual pixel images.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein sending the repeating request to each of the plurality of cameras of the multi-camera device other than the master camera to periodically capture the plurality of dual pixel images starting at the future trigger time further comprises:
after sending the repeating request, sending a high priority request to one or more delayed cameras of the multi-camera device, wherein the high priority request interrupts the repeating request and resets a time peri od for periodically capturing the plurality of dual pixel images.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein training the machine learning system to determine the depth map comprises training a neural network to determine the depth map.
11. A computer-implemented method, comprising:
receiving, at a computing device, a dual pixel image of at least a foreground object, the dual pixel image comprising a plurality of dual pixels, wherein a dual pixel of the plurality of dual pixels comprises a left-side pixel and a right-side pixel that both represent light incident on a single dual pixel element used to capture the dual pixel image;
providing the dual pixel image to a trained machine learning system to determine a depth map for the plurality of dual pixels of the dual pixel image; and
determining an output image based on the dual pixel image and the depth map using the computing device.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein determining the output image based on the dual pixel image and the depth map comprises:
receiving, at the computing device, a request to blur a background of the dual pixel image, wherein the background of the dual pixel image does not include the foreground object; and
determining the output image by blurring at least a portion of the background of the dual pixel image based on the depth map using the computing device.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising:
providing the output image using the computing device.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the computing device comprises a camera, and wherein receiving the dual pixel image of at least the foreground object comprises:
generating the dual pixel image of at least the foreground object using the camera; and receiving, at the computing device, the generated dual pixel image from the camera.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the trained machine learning system is trained using the computing device.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the trained machine learning system is trained using a second computing device that differs from the computing device; and
wherein providing the dual pixel image to the trained machine learning system to determine the depth map for the plurality of dual pixels of the dual pixel image comprises:
receiving the trained machine learning system at the computing device; and after receiving the trained machine learning system at the computing device, providing the dual pixel image to the trained machine learning system of the computing device to determine the depth map for the plurality of dual pixels of the dual pixel image.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the trained machine learning system is resident on a second computing device that differs from the computing device; and
wherein providing the dual pixel image to the trained machine learning system to determine the depth map for the plurality of dual pixels of the dual pixel image comprises:
receiving the dual pixel image at the second computing device from the second computing device;
after receiving the dual pixel image, the second computing device providing the dual pixel image to the trained machine learning system of the second computing device to determine the depth map for the plurality of dual pixels of the dual pixel image; and
sending the depth map from the second computing device to the computing device.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the trained machine learning system is resident on a second computing device that differs from the computing device;
wherein providing the dual pixel image to the trained machine learning system to determine the depth map for the plurality of dual pixels of the dual pixel image comprises receiving the dual pixel image at the second computing device from the second computing device, and
after receiving the dual pixel image, the second computing device providing the dual pixel image to the trained machine learning system of the second computing device to determine the depth map for the plurality of dual pixels of the dual pixel image, and
wherein determining the output image based on the dual pixel image and the depth map by the computing device comprises;
determining the output image based on the dual pixel image and the depth map using the second computing device, and
sending the output image from the second computing device to the computing device.
19. A computing device, comprising:
one or more processors; and
data storage, wherein the data storage has stored thereon computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing device to cany out functions comprising;
receiving a dual pixel image of at least a foreground object, the dual pixel image comprising a plurality of dual pixels, wherein a dual pixel of the plurality of dual pixels comprises a left-side pixel and a right-side pixel that both represent light incident on a single dual pixel element used to capture the dual pixel image;
providing the dual pixel image to a trained machine learning system to determine a depth map for the plurality of dual pixels of the dual pixel image; and determining an output image based on the dual pixel image and the depth map.
20. The computing device of claim 19, wherein determining the output image based on the dual pixel image and the depth map comprises: receiving a request to blur a background of the dual pixel image, wherein the background of the dual pixel image does not include the foreground object; and
determining the output image by blurring at least a portion of the background of the dual pixel image based on the depth map.
</claims>
</document>
