<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G06K9/62,G06N20/20,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RAMBAM MED TECH
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROIMI, Michael
SHROT, Anat
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73652773
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATIC PREDICTION OF BLOOD INFECTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A method for predicting a medical condition in a patient, the method comprising: receiving, with respect to each of a plurality of subjects, a plurality of clinical parameters, and an outcome indication with respect the said medical condition; applying to said plurality of clinical parameters one or more feature selection algorithms, to select a subset of said plurality of clinical parameters as the most relevant predictors; at a training stage, training a machine learning model on a training set comprising: (i) said relevant predictors with respect to each of said subjects, and (ii) labels associated with said outcome indication in said subject; and at an inference stage, applying said trained machine learning model to a target subset of said relevant predictors with respect to a target patient, to predict said medical condition in said target patient.
</abstract>

<claims>
4. The system of claim 1, wherein said medical condition is mortality risk within a specified time period, and said relevant predictors are selected from the group consisting of: hemodynamic parameters, respiratory parameters, heart rate parameters, respiratory rate parameters, and arterial blood pressure parameters, patient medical history, bilirubin parameters, hemoglobin parameters, red blood cell indices, glucose parameters, creatinine parameters, and albumin parameters.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein said patient medical history comprises prior medical diagnoses of at least some of: ischemic heart disease, congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic renal failure, end-stage renal disease, diabetes without target organ damage, diabetes with organ damage, acute leukemia, chronic leukemia, lymphoma, multiple myeloma, human immunodeficiency virus infection, malignancy, cirrhosis, cerebral vascular accident, transient ischemic attack, and dementia.
6. The system of any one of claims 1 -5 , wherein said relevant predictors further include gastro-intestinal function parameters selected from the group consisting of: defecation frequency during the preceding 24, 48, 72 and 96 hour periods; total time without defecations during the preceding 24, 48, 72 and 96 hour periods; vomiting frequency; evidence of the amount of gastric residual volume; gastric and intestinal acidity; and intra abdominal pressure (IAP).
7. The system of any one of claims 1-6, wherein said plurality of clinical parameters further comprises clinical data monitored in connection with hospital admission selected from the group consisting of: body temperature; hemodynamic and respiratory parameters; heart rate; systolic blood pressure; diastolic blood pressure; mean arterial pressure; urine output; respiratory rate; pulse oximetry 02 saturation; timing, duration, and dosage of intravenous fluids; diuretics; vasopressor; antibiotic treatment; total parenteral nutrition; enteral nutrition; continuous renal replacement therapy and dialysis; presence and timing of indwelling catheters; surgeries during admission; duration of hospitalization and ICU stay; use of glucocorticoids; and chemotherapy.
8. The system of any one of claims 1-7, wherein said feature selection algorithms comprise at least an extreme gradient boosting algorithm.
9. The system of any one of claims 1-8, wherein said machine learning model comprises a plurality of classification algorithms selected from the group consisting of: linear discriminant analysis (Ida), classification and regression trees (cart), Itnearest neighbors (knn), support vector machine (svm), logistic regression (glm), random forest (rf), generalized linear models (glmnet), naive Bayes (nb), and extreme gradient boosting.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein said applying comprises applying each of said plurality of classification algorithms to said target subset to obtain a plurality of corresponding predictions, and wherein a final prediction of said medical condition is based, at least in part, on a weighted soft voting of all of said plurality of predictions.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein said soft voting is based, at least in part, on a confidence score associated with each of said plurality of predictions.
12. A method for predicting a medical condition in a patient, the method comprising: receiving, with respect to each of a plurality of subjects, a plurality of clinical parameters, and an outcome indication with respect the said medical condition;
applying to said plurality of clinical parameters one or more feature selection algorithms, to select a subset of said plurality of clinical parameters as the most relevant predictors;
at a training stage, training a machine learning model on a training set comprising:
(i) said relevant predictors with respect to each of said subjects, and
(ii) labels associated with said outcome indication in said subject; and
at an inference stage, applying said trained machine learning model to a target subset of said relevant predictors with respect to a target patient, to predict said medical condition in said target patient.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein said medical condition is a bloodstream infection (BSI), and said relevant predictors are selected from the group consisting of: blood urea nitrogen parameters, mean arterial pressure parameters, bilirubin parameters, blood pressure parameters, hospitalization duration parameters, body temperature parameters, neutrophils count parameters, blood oxygen saturation parameters, lymphocyte count parameters, anion gap parameters, and partial pressure of oxygen parameters.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein said medical condition is extubation failure risk and said relevant predictors are selected from the group consisting of: sedative drug dosage parameters prior to extubation, mean alveolar pressure parameters, hemodynamic parameters, respiratory parameters, heart rate parameters, respiratory rate parameters, and arterial blood pressure parameters.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein said medical condition is mortality risk within a specified time period, and said relevant predictors are selected from the group consisting of: hemodynamic parameters, respiratory parameters, heart rate parameters, respiratory rate parameters, and arterial blood pressure parameters, patient medical history, bilirubin parameters, hemoglobin parameters, red blood cell indices, glucose parameters, creatinine parameters, and albumin parameters.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein said patient medical history comprises prior medical diagnoses of at least some of: ischemic heart disease, congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic renal failure, end-stage renal disease, diabetes without target organ damage, diabetes with organ damage, acute leukemia, chronic leukemia, lymphoma, multiple myeloma, human immunodeficiency virus infection, malignancy, cirrhosis, cerebral vascular accident, transient ischemic attack, and dementia.
17. The method of any one of claims 12-16, wherein said relevant predictors further include gastro-intestinal function parameters selected from the group consisting of: defecation frequency during the preceding 24, 48, 72 and 96 hour periods; total time without defecations during the preceding 24, 48, 72 and 96 hour periods; vomiting frequency; evidence of the amount of gastric residual volume; gastric and intestinal acidity; and intra abdominal pressure (IAP).
18. The method of any one of claims 12-17, wherein said plurality of clinical parameters further comprises clinical data monitored in connection with hospital admission selected from the group consisting of: body temperature; hemodynamic and respiratory parameters; heart rate; systolic blood pressure; diastolic blood pressure; mean arterial pressure; urine output; respiratory rate; pulse oximetry 02 saturation; timing, duration, and dosage of intravenous fluids; diuretics; vasopressor; antibiotic treatment; total parenteral nutrition; enteral nutrition; continuous renal replacement therapy and dialysis; presence and timing of indwelling catheters; surgeries during admission; duration of hospitalization and ICU stay; use of glucocorticoids; and chemotherapy.
19. The method of any one of claims 12-18, wherein said feature selection algorithms comprise at least an extreme gradient boosting algorithm.
20. The method of any one of claims 12-19, wherein said machine learning model comprises a plurality of classification algorithms selected from the group consisting of: linear discriminant analysis (Ida), classification and regression trees (cart), Itnearest neighbors (knn), support vector machine (svm), logistic regression (glm), random forest (rf), generalized linear models (glmnet), naive Bayes (nb), and extreme gradient boosting.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein said applying comprises applying each of said plurality of classification algorithms to said target subset to obtain a plurality of corresponding predictions, and wherein a final prediction of said medical condition is based, at least in part, on a weighted soft voting of all of said plurality of predictions.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein said soft voting is based, at least in part, on a confidence score associated with each of said plurality of predictions.
23. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, the program code executable by at least one hardware processor to:
receive, with respect to each of a plurality of subjects, a plurality of clinical parameters, and an outcome indication with respect the said medical condition;
apply to said plurality of clinical parameters one or more feature selection algorithms, to select a subset of said plurality of clinical parameters as the most relevant predictors;
at a training stage, train a machine learning model on a training set comprising:
(i) said relevant predictors with respect to each of said subjects, and
(ii) labels associated with said outcome indication in said subject; and at an inference stage, apply said trained machine learning model to a target subset of said relevant predictors with respect to a target patient, to predict said medical condition in said target patient.
24. The computer program product of claim 23, wherein said medical condition is a bloodstream infection (BSI), and said relevant predictors are selected from the group consisting of: blood urea nitrogen parameters, mean arterial pressure parameters, bilirubin parameters, blood pressure parameters, hospitalization duration parameters, body temperature parameters, neutrophils count parameters, blood oxygen saturation parameters, lymphocyte count parameters, anion gap parameters, and partial pressure of oxygen parameters.
25. The computer program product of claim 23, wherein said medical condition is extubation failure risk and said relevant predictors are selected from the group consisting of: sedative drug dosage parameters prior to extubation, mean alveolar pressure parameters, hemodynamic parameters, respiratory parameters, heart rate parameters, respiratory rate parameters, and arterial blood pressure parameters.
26. The computer program product of claim 23, wherein said medical condition is mortality risk within a specified time period, and said relevant predictors are selected from the group consisting of: hemodynamic parameters, respiratory parameters, heart rate parameters, respiratory rate parameters, and arterial blood pressure parameters, patient medical history, bilirubin parameters, hemoglobin parameters, red blood cell indices, glucose parameters, creatinine parameters, and albumin parameters.
27. The computer program product of claim 26, wherein said patient medical history comprises prior medical diagnoses of at least some of: ischemic heart disease, congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic renal failure, end-stage renal disease, diabetes without target organ damage, diabetes with organ damage, acute leukemia, chronic leukemia, lymphoma, multiple myeloma, human immunodeficiency virus infection, malignancy, cirrhosis, cerebral vascular accident, transient ischemic attack, and dementia.
28. The computer program product of any one of claims 23-27, wherein said relevant predictors further include gastro-intestinal function parameters selected from the group consisting of: defecation frequency during the preceding 24, 48, 72 and 96 hour periods; total time without defecations during the preceding 24, 48, 72 and 96 hour periods; vomiting frequency; evidence of the amount of gastric residual volume; gastric and intestinal acidity; and intra-abdominal pressure (IAP).
29. The computer program product of any one of claims 23-28, wherein said plurality of clinical parameters further comprises clinical data monitored in connection with hospital admission selected from the group consisting of: body temperature; hemodynamic and respiratory parameters; heart rate; systolic blood pressure; diastolic blood pressure; mean arterial pressure; urine output; respiratory rate; pulse oximetry 02 saturation; timing, duration, and dosage of intravenous fluids; diuretics; vasopressor; antibiotic treatment; total parenteral nutrition; enteral nutrition; continuous renal replacement therapy and dialysis; presence and timing of indwelling catheters; surgeries during admission; duration of hospitalization and ICU stay; use of glucocorticoids; and chemotherapy.
30. The computer program product of any one of claims 23-29, wherein said feature selection algorithms comprise at least an extreme gradient boosting algorithm.
31. The computer program product of any one of claims 23-30, wherein said machine learning model comprises a plurality of classification algorithms selected from the group consisting of: linear discriminant analysis (Ida), classification and regression trees (cart), Itnearest neighbors (knn), support vector machine (svm), logistic regression (glm), random forest (rf), generalized linear models (glmnet), naive Bayes (nb), and extreme gradient boosting.
32. The computer program product of claim 31, wherein said applying comprises applying each of said plurality of classification algorithms to said target subset to obtain a plurality of corresponding predictions, and wherein a final prediction of said medical condition is based, at least in part, on a weighted soft voting of all of said plurality of predictions.
33. The computer program product of claim 32, wherein said soft voting is based, at least in part, on a confidence score associated with each of said plurality of predictions.
</claims>
</document>
