<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/04,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SCHLUMBERGER CANADA
SCHLUMBERGER TECHNOLOGY
SERVICES PETROLIERS SCHLUMBERGER
</assignee>

<inventors>
MEDVEDEV, OLEG O.
SPRENKEL, MARCUS D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73553911
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EQUIPMENT FAILURE DIAGNOSTICS USING BAYESIAN INFERENCE
</title>

<abstract>
A method is described herein, comprising registering an event at a first processing unit of a processing facility comprising a plurality of processing units, using a coincidence probability array and an event probability to identify a second processing unit of the plurality of processing units based on the event, determining whether the second processing unit experienced a coincident event, if the second processing unit experienced a coincident event, remediating a condition of the second processing unit that caused the coincident event, and updating the coincidence probability array based on the event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising:
registering a first failure at a first processing unit of a processing facility comprising a plurality of processing units;
using a Bayesian inference engine to determine a probability that a second processing unit of the processing facility experienced a second failure based on occurrence of the first failure;
in the event that the probability is above a predetermined threshold, determining whether the second processing unit experienced the second failure; in the event that it is determined that the second processing unit experienced the second failure, remediating a condition of the second processing unit that caused the second failure; and
updating the Bayesian inference engine with occurrence or non-occurrence of the first and second failures.
2. The method of claim 1 , wherein the threshold is determined based on a first severity of the first failure or based on a second severity of the second failure.
3. The method of claim 1 , further comprising using the Bayesian inference engine to determine a probability that each of a plurality of failures occurred at any processing unit of the processing facility based on occurrence of the first failure.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising, for each failure of the plurality of failures, if the probability that the failure occurred is above a predetermined threshold defined for each failure of the plurality of failures, determining whether the failure occurred, in order of highest probability to lowest probability.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein each threshold is determined based on a severity of each failure.
6. The method of claim 4, further comprising updating the Bayesian inference engine with records of occurrence and non-occurrence of each respective failure of the plurality of failures.
7. The method of claim 1 , further comprising using the Bayesian inference engine to determine a probability that a third processing unit of the processing facility experienced a third failure based on occurrence of the second failure.
8. A method, comprising:
registering a first event at a first processing unit of a first processing facility comprising a first plurality of processing units;
using a Bayesian inference engine to determine a probability that a second processing unit of the first processing facility experienced a second event based on occurrence of the first event and based on historical occurrences of the first and second events in a plurality of processing facilities;
in the event that the probability is above a predetermined threshold, determining whether the second processing unit experienced the second event; in the event it is determined that the second processing unit experienced the second event, remediating a condition of the second processing unit that caused the second event; and
updating the Bayesian inference engine with occurrence or non-occurrence of the first and second events at the processing facility.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the threshold is determined based on a first severity of the first event or based on a second severity of the second event.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising using the Bayesian inference engine to determine a probability that each of a plurality of events occurred at any processing unit of the processing facility based on occurrence of the first event and based on historical occurrences of the first event and the plurality of events in a plurality of processing facilities.
1 1. The method of claim 10, further comprising, for each event of the plurality of events, if the probability that the event occurred is above a predetermined threshold defined for each event of the plurality of events, determining whether the event occurred, in order of highest probability to lowest probability.
12. The method of claim 1 1 , wherein each threshold is determined based on a severity of each event.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the threshold is also determined based on a characteristic of the processing facility.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein using the Bayesian inference engine to determine the probability further comprises applying a weighting factor to the historical occurrences.
15. The method of claim 8, wherein the weighting factor includes a weighting factor for each of the plurality of processing facilities.
16. A method, comprising:
registering a first event at a first processing unit of a processing facility comprising a first plurality of processing units;
using a Bayesian inference engine to determine a probability that a second processing unit of the first processing facility experienced a second event based on occurrence of the first event and based on historical occurrences of the first and second events in a plurality of processing facilities;
in the event that the probability is above a predetermined first threshold, determining whether the second processing unit experienced the second event; in the event it is determined that the second processing unit experienced the second event, remediating a condition of the second processing unit that caused the second event;
updating the Bayesian inference engine with occurrence or non-occurrence of the first and second events at the processing facility;
in the event that the probability is above a predetermined second threshold, initiating a preventive action with respect to the second event in every processing facility of the plurality of processing facilities.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the first threshold is determined based on a first severity of the first event at the processing facility or based on a second severity of the second event at the processing facility.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the second threshold is based on a first combined severity of the first event at the first processing facility and the plurality of processing facilities, and on a second combined severity of the second event at the first processing facility and the plurality of processing facilities.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein using the Bayesian inference engine to determine the probability further comprises applying a weighting factor to the historical occurrences.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the weighting factor includes a weighting factor for each of the plurality of processing facilities.
</claims>
</document>
