<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F13/362
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOBILEYE VISION TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHULMAN, BORIS
KERET, Galit
RICHTER, Itamar
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70155356
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRIORITY BASED MANAGEMENT OF ACCESS TO SHARED RESOURCES
</title>

<abstract>
A system, computer readable medium and a method that may include performing multiple iterations of: determining, by each active initiator of the multiple initiators, a number of pending access requests generated by the active initiator, wherein each access request is a request to access a shared resource out of the shared resources; determining, by each active initiator, a priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by the active initiator, wherein the determining is based on the number of pending access requests generated by the active initiator, a number of active initiators out of the multiple initiators, and a number of access requests serviceable by the shared resource; for each active initiator, informing an arbitration hardware of a network on chip about the priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by the active initiator; and managing access to the shared resources, by the arbitration hardware, based on the priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by each active initiator.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for managing access of multiple initiators to shared resources, the method comprises:
determining, by an active initiator of the multiple initiators, a number of pending access requests generated by the active initiator, wherein each access request is a request to access a shared resource out of the shared resources; determining, by the active initiator, a priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by the active initiator, wherein the determining is based on the number of pending access requests generated by the active initiator, a number of active initiators out of the multiple initiators, and a number of access requests serviceable by the shared resource; and
informing, by the active initiator, an arbitration hardware of a network on chip about the priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by the active initiator, to manage access to the shared resources based on the priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by each active initiator.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein each active initiator is associated with at least one arbitration unit of the arbitration hardware; and wherein for each active initiator, the informing of the arbitration hardware comprises informing the at least one arbitration unit about the priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by the active initiator.
3. The method according to claim 1 , wherein the determining of the priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by the active initiator comprises assigning higher priority levels to access requests generated while the active initiator has a lower numbers of pending access requests.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein there are a plurality of priority levels (L), and wherein the determining comprising selecting a priority level out of the plurality of priority levels.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein each priority level is associated with a range of numbers of pending access requests, and wherein the determining of the priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by the active initiator comprises searching for a range of values that includes the number of pending access requests generated by the active initiator.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein for each priority level (Q), the range of numbers of pending access requests that is associated with the priority level starts by a value that substantially equals (L-1-Q)*R/M/(L-1), wherein R is the number of the access requests serviceable by the shared resources, and wherein M is the number of currently active initiators of the multiple initiators that are currently active.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein for each priority level (Q) the range of numbers of pending access requests that is associated with the priority level ends at a value that substantially equals (L-Q)*R/M/(L-1)-1.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the multiple initiators and the shared resources belong to an advanced driver assistance system.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the multiple initiators and the shared resources belong to an autonomous driving system.
10. A system having access management capabilities, the system comprises: shared resources that are configured to service up to a number of access requests;
multiple initiators that comprises active initiators that are configured to generate access requests for accessing the shared resources; and
an arbitration hardware;
wherein each active initiator of the multiple initiators is configured to : iteratively determine a number of pending access requests generated by the active initiator, wherein each access request is a request to access a shared resource out of the shared resources; iteratively determine a priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by the active initiator, wherein the determining is based on the number of pending access requests generated by the active initiator, a number of active initiators out of the multiple initiators, and a number of access requests serviceable by the shared resource; and iteratively inform the arbitration hardware of a network on chip about the priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by the active initiator;
wherein the arbitration hardware is configured to:
iteratively receive, for each active initiator, about the priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by the active initiator; and
iteratively manage access to the shared resources, based on the priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by the active initiator.
11. The system according to claim 10, wherein each active initiator is associated with at least one arbitration unit of the arbitration hardware; and wherein each active initiator is configured inform the at least one arbitration unit about the priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by the active initiator.
12. The system according to claim 10, wherein each active initiator is configured to assign higher priority levels to access requests generated while the active initiator has a lower numbers of pending access requests.
13. The system according to claim 10, wherein there are a plurality (L) of priority levels, and wherein the active initiator is configured to select a priority level out of the plurality of priority levels.
14. The system according to claim 13, wherein each priority level is associated with a range of numbers of pending access requests, and wherein each active initiator is configured to search for a range of values that includes the number of pending access requests generated by the active initiator.
15. The system according to claim 14, wherein for each priority level (Q), the range of numbers of pending access requests that is associated with the priority level starts by a value that substantially equals (L-1-Q)*R/M/(L-1), wherein R is the number of the access requests serviceable by the shared resources, and wherein M is the number of currently active initiators of the multiple initiators that are currently active.
16. The system according to claim 15, wherein for each priority level (Q) the range of numbers of pending access requests that is associated with the priority level ends at a value that substantially equals (L-Q)*R/M/(L-1)-1.
17. The system according to claim 10, wherein the multiple initiators and the shared resources belong to an advanced driver assistance system.
18. A computer program product that stores instructions for managing access of multiple initiators to shared resources, the instructions when executed by a system causes the system to perform operations comprising:
determining, by an active initiator of the multiple initiators, a number of pending access requests generated by the active initiator, wherein each access request is a request to access a shared resource out of the shared resources; determining, by the active initiator, a priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by the active initiator, wherein the
determining is based on the number of pending access requests generated by the active initiator, a number of active initiators out of the multiple initiators, and a number of access requests serviceable by the shared resource; and
informing, by the active initiator, an arbitration hardware of a network on chip about the priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by the active initiator to manage access to the shared resources, by the arbitration hardware, based on the priority level to be assigned to all pending access requests generated by the active initiator.
</claims>
</document>
