<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B15/02,H04L12/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
K4CONNECT
</assignee>

<inventors>
HENDERSON GORE, Diana
PABLA, Kuldip
SIST, Anthony
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70224415
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HOME AUTOMATION SYSTEM INCLUDING CHANGED CURRENT USAGE NOTIFICATION AND RELATED METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
A home automation (HA) system may include at least one HA operation device within a restroom of a user living area and an HA hub device to provide communications for the at least one HA operation device. The HA system may also include at least one controller configured to store historical operational data for the at least one HA operation device based upon a user within the restroom, and monitor operation of the at least one HA operation device, and determine therefrom whether current usage of the restroom has changed based upon the historical operational data. The at least one controller may be configured to generate a notification based upon the historical operations data and the determined current usage of the restroom.
</abstract>

<claims>
THAT WHICH IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A home automation (HA) system comprising:
at least one HA operation device within a restroom of a user living area;
an HA hub device to provide communications for the at least one HA operation device; and
at least one controller configured to
store historical operational data for said at least one HA operation device based upon a user within the restroom,
monitor operation of said at least one HA operation device, and determine therefrom whether current usage of the restroom has changed based upon the historical operational data, and
generate a notification based upon the historical operational data and the determined current usage of the restroom.
2. The HA system of Claim 1 wherein the current usage comprises a frequency of usage.
3. The HA system of Claim 1 wherein the current usage comprises a duration of usage.
4. The HA system of Claim 1 wherein said at least one controller is configured to determine whether the current usage of the restroom has increased based upon the historical operational data.
5. The HA system of Claim 1 wherein said at least one controller is carried by said HA hub device.
6. The HA system of Claim 1 further comprising at least one HA user interface device configured to wirelessly communicate with said at least one HA operation device.
7. The HA system of Claim 6 wherein said at least one controller is carried by said at least one HA user interface device.
8. The HA system of Claim 6 wherein said at least one controller comprises a plurality of controllers carried by said HA hub device and said at least one HA user interface device.
9. The HA system of Claim 6 wherein the at least one HA user interface device comprises at least one HA user interface tablet computer.
10. The HA system of Claim 1 further comprising a cloud server remote from said HA hub device in a cloud computing environment carrying said at least one controller.
11. The HA system of Claim 1 further comprising a cloud server remote from said HA hub device in a cloud computing environment; and wherein said at least one controller comprises a plurality of controllers carried by said cloud server and said HA hub device.
12. The HA system of Claim 1 wherein said at least one HA operation device comprises at least one Internet of Things (loT) device.
13. The HA system of Claim 1 wherein the user living area comprises a senior living facility.
14. The HA system of Claim 1 wherein said at least one HA operation device comprises a light switch within the restroom.
15. The HA system of Claim 1 wherein said at least one HA operation device comprises a toilet flush sensor carried by a toilet within the restroom.
16. A home automation (HA) electronic device for an HA system comprising at least one HA operation device within a restroom of a user living area, and an HA hub device to provide communications for the at least one HA operation device, the HA electronic device comprising
at least one controller and associated memory configured to
store historical operational data for said at least one HA operation device based upon a user within the restroom,
monitor operation of said at least one HA operation device, and determine therefrom whether current usage of the restroom has changed based upon the historical operational data, and
generate a notification based upon the historical operational data and the determined current usage of the restroom.
17. The HA electronic device of Claim 16 wherein the current usage comprises a frequency of usage.
18. The HA electronic device of Claim 16 wherein the current usage comprises a duration of usage.
19. The HA electronic device of Claim 16 wherein said at least one controller is configured to determine whether the current usage of the restroom has increased based upon the historical operational data.
20. The HA electronic device of Claim 16 wherein said at least one controller is carried by said HA hub device.
21. The HA electronic device of Claim 16 further comprising at least one HA user interface device configured to wirelessly communicate with said at least one HA operation device; and wherein said at least one controller is carried by said at least one HA user interface device.
22. The HA electronic device of Claim 16 further comprising a cloud server remote from the HA hub device in a cloud computing environment; and wherein said at least one controller comprises a plurality of controllers carried by said cloud server and the HA hub device.
23. A method of monitoring operation of at least one home automation (HA) operation device of an HA system and within a restroom of a user living area, the HA system comprising an HA hub device to provide communications for the at least one HA operation device, the method comprising:
using at least one controller to
store historical operational data for the at least one HA operation device based upon a user within the restroom,
monitor operation of the at least one HA operation device, and determine therefrom whether a current usage of the restroom has changed based upon the historical operational data, and
generate a notification based upon the historical operational data and the determined current usage of the restroom.
24. The method of Claim 23 wherein the current usage comprises a frequency of usage.
25. The method of Claim 23 wherein the current usage comprises a duration of usage.
26. The method of Claim 23 wherein using the at least one controller comprises using the at least one controller to determine whether the current usage of the restroom has increased based upon the historical operational data.
27. The method of Claim 23 wherein the at least one controller is carried by the HA hub device.
28. The method of Claim 23 wherein the HA system further comprises at least one HA user interface device configured to wirelessly
communicate with the at least one HA operation device; and wherein the at least one controller is carried by the at least one HA user interface device.
29. A non-transitory computer readable medium for monitoring operation of at least one home automation (HA) operation device of an HA system and within a restroom of a user living area, the HA system comprising an HA hub device to provide communications for the at least one HA operation device, the nontransitory computer readable medium comprising computer executable instruction that when executed by at least one controller causes the at least one controller to perform operations comprising:
storing historical operational data for the at least one HA operation device based upon a user within the restroom;
monitoring operation of the at least one HA operation device, and determine therefrom whether current usage of the restroom has changed based upon the historical operational data; and
generating a notification based upon the historical operational data and the determined current usage of the restroom.
30. The non-transitory computer readable medium of Claim 29 wherein the current usage comprises a frequency of usage.
31. The non-transitory computer readable medium of Claim 29 wherein the current usage comprises a duration of usage.
32. The non-transitory computer readable medium of Claim 29 wherein the operations comprise determining whether the current usage of the restroom has increased based upon the historical operational data.
33. The non-transitory computer readable medium of Claim 29 wherein the at least one controller is carried by the HA hub device.
34. The non-transitory computer readable medium of Claim 29 wherein the HA system further comprises at least one HA user interface device configured to wirelessly communicate with the at least one HA operation device; and wherein the at least one controller is carried by the at least one HA user interface device.
</claims>
</document>
