<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/08,A61B5/083
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RESMED
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOS SANTOS, Jose
SAUNDERS, Francis
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70476329
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND APPARATUSES FOR ANALYZING ONE OR MORE ANALYTES FROM A USER
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure is directed to methods and systems that analyze one or more analytes in a fluid, such as breath, emitted from a user. The methods and systems can detect one or more analytes in the breath of a user to provide alerts in response to discrepancies in medications taken by a user, verify one or more medications taken by a user, manage a medication regime of a user, and various other functions disclosed herein.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A method for analyzing exhaled breath of a user comprising:
receiving, from at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of the user and configured to detect at least one analyte in the exhaled breath of the user, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user;
processing the information to determine a presence of the at least one analyte in the exhaled breadth; and
causing a transmission of a message to a remote system based on the determination of the presence of the at least one analyte.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising processing the information to determine a concentration of the at least one analyte in the exhaled breadth.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the causing of the transmission of the message occurs when the concentration of the at least one analyte satisfies a threshold.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the remote system is associated with first responders, and the message indicates at least a potential overdose of the user.
5. The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the presence of the at least one analyte indicates the user consumed a prohibited substance.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the prohibited substance is legally prohibited, medically prohibited, or nutritionally prohibited.
7. The method of any one of claims 5 and 6, wherein the at least one analyte is a metabolite of the prohibited substance.
8. The method of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the at least one analyte is
peroxynitrite, a volatile organic compound, an isoprostane, or a cytokine.
9. The method of any one of claims 1 to 8, further comprising receiving, from the remote system confirmation of receipt of the message.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising verifying authenticity of the confirmation based, at least in part, on a key transmitted with the confirmation.
11. The method of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the at least one sensor is affixed to a frame, and the frame is connected to the user along the exhalation of the path of the user.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the frame is a mask of a continuous positive airway pressure device.
13. The method of any one of claims 1 to 12, further comprising correlating the determined presence to another metric associated with the user.
14. A system comprising:
a control system comprising one or more processors; and
a memory having stored thereon machine readable instructions;
wherein the control system is coupled to the memory, and the method of any one of claims 1 to 13 is implemented when the machine executable instructions in the memory are executed by at least one of the one or more processors of the control system.
15. A system for analyzing exhaled breath of a user, the system comprising a control system configured to implement the method of any one of claims 1 to 13.
16. A computer program product comprising instructions which, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to carry out the method of any one of claims 1 to 13.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the computer program product is a non-transitory computer readable medium.
18. A method for adjusting dosage of an agent comprising:
receiving, from at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of a user and configured to detect at least one analyte in exhaled breath of the user, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user; processing the information to determine a presence, a concentration, or a combination thereof of the at least one analyte in the exhaled breadth; and
determining an adjustment to a delivery device configured to deliver the agent to the user based, at least in part, on the presence, the concentration, or a combination thereof of the at least one analyte,
wherein the information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user is from multiple discrete measurements during multiple discrete sessions of the at least one sensor detecting the at least one analyte in the exhaled breath of the user.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising:
comparing the information to crowd-sourced information generated based on analysis of exhaled breath of a plurality of additional users being delivered the agent,
wherein the determining of the adjustment to the delivery device is based, at least in part, on the comparison.
20. The method of any one of claims 18 and 19, further comprising:
determining at least one trend in the information across the multiple discrete sessions, wherein the determining of the adjustment to the delivery device is based, at least in part, on the at least one trend.
21. The method of any one of claims of claims 18 to 20, wherein the adjustment is based on a dosage amount, a dosage frequency, or a combination thereof of the agent.
22. The method of any one of claims 18 to 21, further comprising causing a transmission of a message to a remote system requesting the adjustment.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the remote system is associated with a healthcare provider associated with the user.
24. The method of any one of claims 18 to 23, wherein the at least one analyte is a metabolite of the agent.
25. The method of any one of claims 18 to 24, wherein the at least one analyte is the agent after being metabolized by the user.
26. The method of any one of claims 18 to 25, wherein the at least one sensor is positioned on a patient interface of a positive airway pressure device, and the at least one analyte is unrelated to respiratory function of the user.
27. The method of any one of claims 18 to 26, further comprising instructing the user on how to implement the adjustment to the delivery device via one or more visual instructions presented on a display.
28. A system comprising:
a control system comprising one or more processors; and
a memory having stored thereon machine readable instructions;
wherein the control system is coupled to the memory, and the method of any one of claims 18 to 27 is implemented when the machine executable instructions in the memory are executed by at least one of the one or more processors of the control system.
29. A system for adjusting dosage of an agent, the system comprising a control system configured to implement the method of any one of claims 18 to 27.
30. A computer program product comprising instructions which, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to carry out the method of any one of claims 18 to 27.
31. The computer program product of claim 30, wherein the computer program product is a non-transitory computer readable medium.
32. A method for alerting a user of a potential for a drug interaction comprising:
receiving, from at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of the user and configured to detect at least two analytes in exhaled breath of the user, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user;
processing the information to determine a presence of a first analyte of the at least two analytes, a presence of the second analyte of the at least two analytes, or a combination thereof in the exhaled breadth; and
generating an alert for the potential of the drug interaction upon determining the presence of the first analyte and the presence of the second analyte in the exhaled breath.
33. The method of claim 32, further comprising processing the information to determine a concentration of the first analyte of the at least two analytes, a concentration of the second analyte of the at least two analytes, or a combination thereof in the exhaled breadth upon determining the presence of the first analyte and the presence of the second analyte in the exhaled breath.
34. The method of claim 33, further comprising:
comparing the concentration of the first analyte, the concentration of the second analyte, or a combination thereof to one or more thresholds; and
generating the alert for the potential of the drug interaction based on the comparison.
35. The method of claim 34, further comprising generating the alert upon the comparison indicating that the concentration of the first analyte, the concentration of the second analyte, or a combination thereof exceed at least one threshold of the one or more thresholds.
36. The method of any one of claims 34 and 35, further comprising generating the alert upon the comparison indicating that the concentration of the first analyte and the
concentration of the second analyte exceed at least one threshold of the one or more thresholds.
37. The method of any one of claims 34 to 36, further comprising generating the alert upon the comparison indicating that the concentration of the first analyte and the
concentration of the second analyte exceed respective thresholds of the one or more thresholds.
38. The method of any one of claims 32 to 38, wherein the at least one sensor comprises a first sensor and a second sensor, the first sensor being configured to detect the first analyte of the at least two analytes and the second sensor being configured to detect the second analyte of the at least two analytes.
39. A system comprising:
a control system comprising one or more processors; and
a memory having stored thereon machine readable instructions; wherein the control system is coupled to the memory, and the method of any one of claims 32 to 38 is implemented when the machine executable instructions in the memory are executed by at least one of the one or more processors of the control system.
40. A system for alerting a user of a potential for a drug interaction, the system
comprising a control system configured to implement the method of any one of claims 32 to 38.
41. A computer program product comprising instructions which, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to carry out the method of any one of claims 32 to 38.
42. The computer program product of claim 41, wherein the computer program product is a non-transitory computer readable medium.
43. A method for analyzing exhaled breath of a user comprising:
receiving, from at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of the user and configured to detect at least one analyte in the exhaled breath of the user, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user;
processing the information to determine a presence of the at least one analyte in the exhaled breadth; and
causing a transmission of a message to a remote system based on the determination of the presence of the at least one analyte.
44. The method of claim 43, further comprising processing the information to determine a concentration of the at least one analyte in the exhaled breadth.
45. The method of claim 44, wherein the causing of the transmission of the message occurs when the concentration of the at least one analyte satisfies a threshold.
446. The method of claim 45, wherein the remote system is associated with first responders, and the message indicates at least a potential overdose of the user.
47. The method of any one of claims 43 to 46, wherein the presence of the at least one analyte indicates the user consumed a prohibited substance.
48. The method of claim 47, wherein the prohibited substance is legally prohibited, medically prohibited, or nutritionally prohibited.
49. The method of any one of claims 47 and 48, wherein the at least one analyte is a metabolite of the prohibited substance.
50. The method of any one of claims 43 to 49, wherein the at least one analyte is peroxynitrite, a volatile organic compound, an isoprostane, or a cytokine.
51. The method of any one of claims 43 to 50, further comprising receiving, from the remote system confirmation of receipt of the message.
52. The method of claim 51, further comprising verifying authenticity of the confirmation based, at least in part, on a key transmitted with the confirmation.
53. The method of any one of claims 43 to 52, wherein the at least one sensor is affixed to a frame, and the frame is connected to the user along the exhalation of the path of the user.
54. The method of claim 53, wherein the frame is a mask of a continuous positive airway pressure device.
55. The method of any one of claims 43 to 54, further comprising correlating the determined presence to another metric associated with the user.
56. A method for analyzing exhaled breath of a user comprising:
at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of the user, the at least one sensor configured to detect at least one analyte in the exhaled breath of the user;
a communication interface configured to communicate with a remote system;
memory containing machine-readable instructions; and
a control system having one or more processors in communication with the memory, the control system configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to:
receiving, from at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of the user and configured to detect at least one analyte in the exhaled breath of the user, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user; processing the information to determine an absence of the at least one analyte in the exhaled breadth; and
causing a transmission of a message to a remote system based on the determination of the absence of the at least one analyte.
57. The method of claim 56, wherein the determined absence of the at least one analyte indicates defiance of a medical regime or a nutritional regime.
58. The method of claim 57, wherein the remote system is associated with at least one medical professional, at least one nutritionist, or a combination thereof associated with the user.
59. The method of any one of claims 56 to 58, wherein the at least one sensor is affixed to a frame, and the frame is connected to the user along the exhalation of the path of the user.
60. The method of claim 59, wherein the frame is a mask of a continuous positive airway pressure device.
61. The method of any one of claims 56 to 60, wherein the remote system is associated with the user, and the at least one analyte is at least one vitamin, at least one supplement, or a combination thereof, or at least one metabolite of the at least one vitamin, the at least one supplement, or a combination thereof.
62. A method for analyzing exhaled breath of a user comprising:
receiving, from at least one sensor affixed to a mask connected to a respiratory device and positioned in an exhalation path of the user, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user, the at least one sensor being configured to detect at least one analyte in the exhaled breath of the user;
processing the information to determine an absence of a first analyte of the at least one analyte, a presence of a second analyte of the at least one analyte, or a combination thereof in the exhaled breadth of the user; and
causing a transmission of a message to a remote system, the respiratory device, or a combination that indicates: (i) the determined absence, (ii) the determined presence, (iii) confirmation of performance of the method and lack of the determined absence, the determined presence, or a combination thereof, or (iv) a combination thereof.
63. A system for analyzing exhaled breath of a user comprising:
at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of the user, the at least one sensor configured to detect at least one analyte in the exhaled breath of the user;
a communication interface configured to communicate with a remote system;
memory containing machine-readable instructions; and
a control system having one or more processors in communication with the memory, the control system configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to:
receive, from the at least one sensor, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user;
process the information to determine a presence of the at least one analyte in the exhaled breadth; and
cause, via the communication interface, a transmission of a message to the remote system based on the determination of the presence of the at least one analyte.
64. The system of claim 63, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to further process the information to determine a concentration of the at least one analyte in the exhaled breadth.
65. The system of claim 64, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to cause the transmission of the message when the
concentration of the at least one analyte satisfies a threshold.
66. The system of claim 65, wherein the remote system is associated with first
responders, and the message indicates at least a potential overdose of the user.
67. The system of any one of claims 64 to 66, wherein the presence of the at least one analyte indicates the user consumed a prohibited substance.
68. The system of claim 67, wherein the prohibited substance is legally prohibited, medically prohibited, or nutritionally prohibited.
69. The system of any one of claims 67 and 68, wherein the at least one analyte is a metabolite of the prohibited substance.
70. The system of any one of claims 63 to 69, wherein the at least one analyte is peroxynitrite, a volatile organic compound, an isoprostane, or a cytokine.
71. The system of any one of claims 63 to 70, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to receive, from the remote system, confirmation of receipt of the message.
72. The system of claim 71, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to verify authenticity of the confirmation based, at least in part, on a key transmitted with the confirmation.
73. The system of any one of claims 63 to 72, wherein the at least one sensor is affixed to a frame, and the frame is connected to the user along the exhalation of the path of the user.
74. The system of claim 73, wherein the frame is a mask of a continuous positive airway pressure device.
75. The system of any one of claims 63 to 74, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to further correlate the determined presence to another metric associated with the user.
76. A system for analyzing exhaled breath of a user comprising:
at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of the user, the at least one sensor configured to detect at least one analyte in the exhaled breath of the user;
a communication interface configured to communicate with a remote system;
memory containing machine-readable instructions; and
a control system having one or more processors in communication with the memory, the control system configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to:
receive, from the at least one sensor, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user;
process the information to determine an absence of the at least one analyte in the exhaled breadth; and cause, via the communication interface, a transmission of a message to the remote system based on the determination of the absence of the at least one analyte.
77. The system of claim 76, wherein the determined absence of the at least one analyte indicates defiance of a medical regime or a nutritional regime.
78. The system of claim 77, wherein the remote system is associated with at least one medical professional, at least one nutritionist, or a combination thereof associated with the user.
79. The system of any one of claims 76 to 78, wherein the at least one sensor is affixed to a frame, and the frame is connected to the user along the exhalation of the path of the user.
80. The system of claim 79, wherein the frame is a mask of a continuous positive airway pressure device.
81. The system of any one of claims 76 to 80, wherein the remote system is associated with the user, and the at least one analyte is at least one vitamin, at least one supplement, or a combination thereof, or at least one metabolite of the at least one vitamin, the at least one supplement, or a combination thereof.
82. A system for analyzing exhaled breath of a user comprising:
a mask positioned along an exhalation path of the user, the mask being connected to a respiratory device;
at least one sensor affixed to the mask and positioned in the exhalation path of the user, the at least one sensor configured to detect at least one analyte in the exhaled breath of the user;
a communication interface configured to communicate with a remote system, the respiratory device, or a combination thereof;
memory containing machine-readable instructions; and
a control system having one or more processors in communication with the memory, the control system configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to:
receive, from the at least one sensor, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user; process the information to determine an absence of a first analyte of the at least one analyte, a presence of a second analyte of the at least one analyte, or a combination thereof in the exhaled breadth of the user; and
cause, via the communication interface, a transmission of a message to the remote system, the respiratory device, or a combination that indicates: (i) the determined absence, (ii) the determined presence, (iii) confirmation of use of the system and lack of the determined absence, the determined presence, or a combination thereof, or (iv) a combination thereof.
83. A method for adjusting dosage of an agent comprising:
receiving, from at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of a user and configured to detect at least one analyte in exhaled breath of the user, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user;
processing the information to determine a presence, a concentration, or a combination thereof of the at least one analyte in the exhaled breadth; and
determining an adjustment to a delivery device configured to deliver the agent to the user based, at least in part, on the presence, the concentration, or a combination thereof of the at least one analyte,
wherein the information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user is from multiple discrete measurements during multiple discrete sessions of the at least one sensor detecting the at least one analyte in the exhaled breath of the user.
84. The method of claim 83, further comprising:
comparing the information to crowd-sourced information generated based on analysis of exhaled breath of a plurality of additional users being delivered the agent,
wherein the determining of the adjustment to the delivery device is based, at least in part, on the comparison.
85. The method of any one of claims 83 and 84, further comprising:
determining at least one trend in the information across the multiple discrete sessions, wherein the determining of the adjustment to the delivery device based, at least in part, on the at least one trend.
86. The method of any one of claims 83 to 85, wherein the adjustment is based on a dosage amount, a dosage frequency, or a combination thereof of the agent.
87. The method of any one of claims 83 to 86, further comprising causing a transmission of a message to a remote system requesting the adjustment.
88. The method of claim 87, wherein the remote system is associated with a healthcare provider associated with the user.
89. The method of any one of claims 83 to 88, wherein the at least one analyte is a metabolite of the agent.
90. The method of any one of claims 83 to 89, wherein the at least one analyte is the agent after being metabolized by the user.
91. The method of any one of claims 83 to 90, wherein the at least one sensor is positioned on a patient interface of a positive airway pressure device, and the at least one analyte is unrelated to respiratory function of the user.
92. The method of any one of claims 83 to 91, further comprising instructing the user on how to implement the adjustment to the delivery device via one or more visual instructions presented on the display.
93. A method for adjusting dosage of an agent comprising:
receiving, from at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of the user and configured to detect at least one analyte in exhaled breath of the user for a period of time, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user; processing the information to determine a presence, a concentration, or a combination thereof of the at least one analyte in the exhaled breadth for the period of time;
determining one or more trends in the presence, the concentration, or a combination thereof; and causing a transmission of a message to a remote system for notifying a requirement of an adjustment of a dosage of the agent for the user based, at least in part, on the one or more trends.
94. The method of claim 93, wherein the remote system is associated with a healthcare provider associated with the user.
95. The method of any one of claims 93 and 94, further comprising:
determining that the one or more trends satisfies at least one threshold, and
wherein the causing of the transmission of the message based on satisfaction of the at least one threshold.
96. The method of claim 95, wherein the at least one threshold is based, at least in part, on crowd-sourced information generated based on exhaled breath of a plurality of additional users.
97. The method of any one of claims 93 to 96, further comprising:
comparing the concentration of the at least one analyte to one or more physiological parameters of the user; and
determining the adjustment of the dosage based, at least in part, on the comparison.
98. The method of claim 97, further comprising:
determining a predicted response by the user to an initial adjustment of the dosage of the agent;
comparing the predicted response to one or more actual responses by one or more additional users to the initial adjustment; and
modifying the initial adjustment of the dosage of the agent based on the comparison of the predicted response to the one or more actual responses to generate the adjustment of the dosage of the agent included in the message to the remote system.
99. A method for acquiring physiological information of a user comprising:
receiving, from at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of the user and configured to detect at least one analyte in the exhaled breath of the user over multiple discrete measurements during multiple discrete sessions, information generated based on the multiple discrete measurements during the multiple discrete sessions of the at least one sensor detecting the at least one analyte in the exhaled breath of the user;
processing the information to determine a presence, a concentration, or a combination thereof of the at least one analyte in the exhaled breath across the multiple discrete measurements, the multiple discrete sessions, or a combination thereof; and
determining one or more relationships between the presence, the concentration, or a combination thereof of the at least one analyte to one or more physiological parameters, one or more pharmacological parameters, or a combination thereof associated with the user across the multiple discrete measurements, the multiple discrete sessions, or a combination thereof.
100. The method of claim 99, further comprising:
receiving the one or more physiological parameters, the one or more pharmacological parameters, or a combination thereof via one or more communications, one or more inputs by the user, or a combination thereof.
101. The method of any one of claims 99 and 100, further comprising causing a communicating of the one or more relationships to a remote system.
102. The method of any one of claims 99 to 101, further comprising determining the one or more relationships based on one or more machine learning algorithms.
103. A system for adjusting dosage of an agent comprising:
at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of a user, the at least one sensor configured to detect at least one analyte in exhaled breath of the user;
memory containing machine-readable instructions; and
a control system having one or more processors in communication with the memory, the control system configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to:
receive, from the at least one sensor, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user;
process the information to determine a presence, a concentration, or a combination thereof of the at least one analyte in the exhaled breadth; and determine an adjustment to a delivery device configured to deliver the agent to the user based, at least in part, on the presence, the concentration, or a combination thereof of the at least one analyte,
wherein the information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user is from multiple discrete measurements during multiple discrete sessions of the at least one sensor detecting the at least one analyte in the exhaled breath of the user.
104. The system of claim 1, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to compare the information to crowd-sourced information generated based on analysis of exhaled breath of a plurality of additional users being delivered the agent, and the adjustment to the delivery device is based, at least in part, on the comparison.
105. The system of any one of claims 103 and 104, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to further determine at least one trend in the information across the multiple discrete sessions, and determine the adjustment to the delivery device based, at least in part, on the at least one trend.
106. The system of any one of claims 103 to 105, wherein the adjustment is based on a dosage amount, a dosage frequency, or a combination thereof of the agent.
107. The system of any one of claims 103 to 106, further comprising:
a communication interface configured to communicate with a remote system, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to further cause, via the communication interface, a transmission of a message to the remote system requesting the adjustment.
108. The system of claim 107, wherein the remote system is associated with a healthcare provider associated with the user.
109. The system of any one of claims 103 to 108, wherein the at least one analyte is a metabolite of the agent.
110. The system of any one of claims 103 to 109, wherein the at least one analyte is the agent after being metabolized by the user.
111. The system of any one of claims 103 to 110, wherein the at least one sensor is positioned on a patient interface of a positive airway pressure device, and the at least one analyte is unrelated to respiratory function of the user.
112. The system of any one of claims 103 to 111, further comprising:
a display configured to present images to the user,
wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to further instruct the user on how to implement the adjustment to the delivery device via one or more visual instructions presented on the display.
113. A system for adjusting dosage of an agent comprising:
at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of the user, the at least one sensor configured to detect at least one analyte in exhaled breath of the user for a period of time; a communication interface configured to communicate with a remote system;
memory containing machine-readable instructions; and
a control system having one or more processors in communication with the memory, the control system configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to:
receive, from the at least one sensor, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user;
process the information to determine a presence, a concentration, or a combination thereof of the at least one analyte in the exhaled breadth for the period of time;
determine one or more trends in the presence, the concentration, or a combination thereof; and
cause, via the communication interface, a transmission of a message to the remote system for notifying a requirement of an adjustment of a dosage of the agent for the user based, at least in part, on the one or more trends.
114. The system of claim 113, wherein the remote system is associated with a healthcare provider associated with the user.
115. The system of any one of claims 113 and 114, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to determine that the one or more trends satisfies at least one threshold, and cause the transmission of the message based on satisfaction of the at least one threshold.
116. The system of claim 115, wherein the at least one threshold is based, at least in part, on crowd-sourced information generated based on exhaled breath of a plurality of additional users.
117. The system of any one of claims 113 to 116, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to compare the concentration of the at least one analyte to one or more physiological parameters of the user, and determine the adjustment of the dosage based, at least in part, on the comparison.
118. The system of claim 117, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to:
determine a predicted response by the user to an initial adjustment of the dosage of the agent;
compare the predicted response to one or more actual responses by one or more additional users to the initial adjustment; and
modify the initial adjustment of the dosage of the agent based on the comparison of the predicted response to the one or more actual responses to generate the adjustment of the dosage of the agent included in the message to the remote system.
119. A system for acquiring physiological information of a user comprising:
at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of the user, the at least one sensor configured to detect at least one analyte in the exhaled breath of the user over multiple discrete measurements during multiple discrete sessions;
memory containing machine-readable instructions; and
a control system having one or more processors in communication with the memory, the control system configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to:
receive, from the at least one sensor, information generated based on the multiple discrete measurements during the multiple discrete sessions of the at least one sensor detecting the at least one analyte in the exhaled breath of the user; process the information to determine a presence, a concentration, or a combination thereof of the at least one analyte in the exhaled breath across the multiple discrete measurements, the multiple discrete sessions, or a combination thereof; and
determine one or more relationships between the presence, the concentration, or a combination thereof of the at least one analyte to one or more physiological parameters, one or more pharmacological parameters, or a combination thereof associated with the user across the multiple discrete measurements, the multiple discrete sessions, or a combination thereof.
120. The system of claim 119, further comprising:
a communication interface configured to communicate with a remote system; and a user interface configured to receive one or more inputs from the user,
wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to receive the one or more physiological parameters, the one or more pharmacological parameters, or a combination thereof via one or more communications from the communication interface, one or more inputs by the user, or a combination thereof.
121. The system of any one of claims 119 and 120, further comprising:
a communication interface configured to communicate with a remote system, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to communicate the one or more relationships to the remote system.
122. The system of any one of claims 119 to 121, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to determine the one or more relationships based on one or more machine learning algorithms.
123. A method for alerting a user of a potential for a drug interaction comprising:
receiving, from at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of the user and configured to detect at least two analytes in exhaled breath of the user, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user;
processing the information to determine a presence of a first analyte of the at least two analytes, a presence of the second analyte of the at least two analytes, or a combination thereof in the exhaled breadth; and generating an alert for the potential of the drug interaction upon determining the presence of the first analyte and the presence of the second analyte in the exhaled breath.
124. The method of claim 123, further comprising processing the information to determine a concentration of the first analyte of the at least two analytes, a concentration of the second analyte of the at least two analytes, or a combination thereof in the exhaled breadth upon determining the presence of the first analyte and the presence of the second analyte in the exhaled breath.
125. The method of claim 124, further comprising:
comparing the concentration of the first analyte, the concentration of the second analyte, or a combination thereof to one or more thresholds; and
generating the alert for the potential of the drug interaction based on the comparison.
126. The method of claim 125, further comprising generating the alert upon the comparison indicating that the concentration of the first analyte, the concentration of the second analyte, or a combination thereof exceed at least one threshold of the one or more thresholds.
127. The method of any one of claims 125 and 126, further comprising generating the alert upon the comparison indicating that the concentration of the first analyte and the concentration of the second analyte exceed at least one threshold of the one or more thresholds.
128. The method of any one of claims 125 to 127, further comprising generating the alert upon the comparison indicating that the concentration of the first analyte and the
concentration of the second analyte exceed respective thresholds of the one or more thresholds.
129. The method of any one of claims 123 to 128, wherein the at least one sensor comprises a first sensor and a second sensor, the first sensor being configured to detect the first analyte of the at least two analytes and the second sensor being configured to detect the second analyte of the at least two analytes.
130. A method for verifying medication taken by a user comprising:
receiving, from at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of a user and configured to detect one or more analytes in exhaled breath of the user, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user;
processing the information to determine which of the one or more analytes are present in the exhaled breadth; and
determining a discrepancy in one or more medications taken by the user based on a discrepancy between the one or more analytes present in the exhaled breath and one or more analytes associated with the one or more medications.
131. The method of claim 130, further comprising determining the one or more medications taken by the user by accessing electronic medical records associated with the user listing the one or more medications.
132. The method of any one of claims 130 and 131, further comprising:
receiving one or more images of the one or more medications taken by the user, one or more containers of the one or more medications, or a combination thereof; and
processing the one or more images to determine the one or more medications taken by the user.
133. The method of claim 132, wherein the processing is based, at least in part, on one or more colors of the one or more medications, one or more indicia on the one or more medications, one or more shapes of the one or more medications, one or more indicia on the one or more containers, or a combination.
134. The method of any one of claims 130 to 133, further comprising determining the one or more medications taken by the user by determining a presence of one or more analytes associated with the one or more medications for a predefined number of samplings over a period of time.
135. The method of claim 134, wherein the discrepancy between the one or more analytes present in the exhaled breath and the one or more analytes associated with the one or more medications is a lack of at least one analyte of the one or more analytes present in the exhaled breath.
136. The method of any one of claims 130 to 135, further comprising providing an alert to a third party regarding the discrepancy after a predefined number of samplings associated with the discrepancy.
137. A method for managing a medication regime of a user comprising:
receiving, from at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of a user and configured to detect at least two analytes in exhaled breath of the user, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user;
processing the information to determine a presence of an analyte associated with the medication; and
generating an entry regarding the medication within a record associated with the user in response to the presence of the analyte.
138. The method of clam 137, wherein the entry comprises a confirmation in the record that the user took the medication based on the presence of the analyte.
139. The method of claim 138, wherein the record associated with the user is a personal electronic calendar.
140. The method of any one of claims 137 to 139, wherein the entry comprises at least one future entry in the record for reminding the user of at least one future dose of the medication.
141. The method of claim 140, further comprising determining dosage information of the medication based on accessing electronic medical records associated with the user.
142. The method of any one of claims 140 and 141, further comprising:
receiving one or more images of the medication taken by the user, a container of the medication, or a combination thereof; and
processing the one or more images to determine the dosage information of the medication.
143. The method of any one of claims 137 to 142, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to provide information regarding the medication to the user.
144. A system for alerting a user of a potential for a drug interaction comprising:
at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of the user, the at least one sensor configured to detect at least two analytes in exhaled breath of the user;
memory containing machine-readable instructions; and
a control system having one or more processors in communication with the memory, the control system configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to:
receive, from the at least one sensor, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user;
process the information to determine a presence of a first analyte of the at least two analytes, a presence of the second analyte of the at least two analytes, or a combination thereof in the exhaled breadth; and
generate an alert for the potential of the drug interaction upon determining the presence of the first analyte and the presence of the second analyte in the exhaled breath.
145. The system of claim 144, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to process the information to determine a concentration of the first analyte of the at least two analytes, a concentration of the second analyte of the at least two analytes, or a combination thereof in the exhaled breadth upon determining the presence of the first analyte and the presence of the second analyte in the exhaled breath.
146. The system of claim 145, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to:
compare the concentration of the first analyte, the concentration of the second analyte, or a combination thereof to one or more thresholds; and
generate the alert for the potential of the drug interaction based on the comparison.
147. The system of claim 146, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to generate the alert upon the comparison indicating that the concentration of the first analyte, the concentration of the second analyte, or a combination thereof exceed at least one threshold of the one or more thresholds.
148. The system of any one of claims 146 and 147, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to generate the alert upon the comparison indicating that the concentration of the first analyte and the concentration of the second analyte exceed at least one threshold of the one or more thresholds.
149. The system of any one of claims 146 to 148, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to generate the alert upon the comparison indicating that the concentration of the first analyte and the concentration of the second analyte exceed respective thresholds of the one or more thresholds.
150. The system of any one of claims 144 to 149, wherein the at least one sensor comprises a first sensor and a second sensor, the first sensor being configured to detect the first analyte of the at least two analytes and the second sensor being configured to detect the second analyte of the at least two analytes.
151. A system for verifying one or more medications taken by a user comprising:
at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of a user, the at least one sensor configured to detect one or more analytes in exhaled breath of the user;
memory containing machine-readable instructions; and
a control system having one or more processors in communication with the memory, the control system configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to:
receive, from the at least one sensor, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user;
process the information to determine which of the one or more analytes are present in the exhaled breadth; and
determine a discrepancy in one or more medications taken by the user based on a discrepancy between the one or more analytes present in the exhaled breath and one or more analytes associated with the one or more medications.
152. The system of claim 151, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to determine the one or more medications taken by the user by accessing electronic medical records associated with the user listing the one or more medications.
153. The system of any one of claims 151 and 152, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to: receive one or more images of the one or more medications taken by the user, one or more containers of the one or more medications, or a combination thereof; and
process the one or more images to determine the one or more medications taken by the user.
154. The system of claim 153, wherein the processing is based, at least in part, on one or more colors of the one or more medications, one or more indicia on the one or more medications, one or more shapes of the one or more medications, one or more indicia on the one or more containers, or a combination.
155. The system of any one of claims 151 to 154, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to determine the one or more medications taken by the user by determining a presence of one or more analytes associated with the one or more medications for a predefined number of samplings over a period of time.
156. The system of claim 155, wherein the discrepancy between the one or more analytes present in the exhaled breath and the one or more analytes associated with the one or more medications is a lack of at least one analyte of the one or more analytes present in the exhaled breath.
157. The system of any one of claims 151 to 156, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine readable instructions to provide an alert to a third party regarding the discrepancy after a predefined number of samplings associated with the discrepancy.
158. A system for managing a medication regime of a user comprising:
at least one sensor positioned in an exhalation path of a user, the at least one sensor configured to detect at least one analyte in exhaled breath of the user;
memory containing machine-readable instructions; and
a control system having one or more processors in communication with the memory, the control system configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to:
receive, from the at least one sensor, information generated based on the exhaled breath of the user; process the information to determine a presence of an analyte associated with the medication; and
generate an entry regarding the medication within a record associated with the user in response to the presence of the analyte.
159. The system of claim 158, wherein the entry comprises a confirmation in the record that the user took the medication based on the presence of the analyte.
160. The system of claim 159, wherein the record associated with the user is a personal electronic calendar.
161. The system of any one of claims 158 to 160, wherein the entry comprises at least one future entry in the record for reminding the user of at least one future dose of the medication.
162. The system of claim 161, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to determine dosage information of the medication based on accessing electronic medical records associated with the user.
163. The system of any one of claims 161 and 162, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to:
receive one or more images of the medication taken by the user, a container of the medication, or a combination thereof; and
process the one or more images to determine the dosage information of the medication.
164. The system of any one of claims 158 to 163, wherein the control system is configured to execute the machine-readable instructions to provide information regarding the medication to the user.
</claims>
</document>
