<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMBWANI, GEETU
BACKENROTH, DANIEL
BAXI, SHRUJAL
FLATIRON HEALTH
HAIMSON, JOSHUA D.
JIANG, CHENGSHENG
MEROPOL, NEAL
MURALI, MAHESH
ROSIC, ANDREJ
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMBWANI, GEETU
BACKENROTH, DANIEL
BAXI, SHRUJAL
HAIMSON, JOSHUA D.
JIANG, CHENGSHENG
MEROPOL, NEAL
MURALI, MAHESH
ROSIC, ANDREJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70005764
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROGNOSTIC SCORE BASED ON HEALTH INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
A model-assisted system for predicting survivability of a patient may include at least one processor. The processor may be programmed to access a database storing a medical record for the patient. The medical record may include at least one of structured and unstructured information relative to the patient and may lack a structured patient ECOG score. The processor may be further programmed to analyze at least one of the structured and unstructured information relative to the patient; based on the analysis, and in the absence of a structured ECOG score, generate a performance status prediction for the patient; and provide an output indicative of the predicted performance status. The analysis of at least one of the structured and unstructured information and the generation of the predicted performance status may be performed by at least one of a trained machine learning model or a natural language processing algorithm.
</abstract>

<claims>
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A model-assisted system for predicting a performance status of a patient, the system comprising: at least one processor programmed to:
access a database storing a medical record for the patient, the medical record including at least one of structured and unstructured information relative to the patient, wherein the medical record lacks a structured patient ECOG score;
analyze at least one of the structured and unstructured information relative to the patient;
based on the analysis, and in the absence of a structured ECOG score, generate a performance status prediction for the patient; and
provide an output indicative of the predicted performance status of the patient, wherein the analysis of at least one of the structured and unstructured
information relative to the patient and the generation of the predicted performance status for the patient are performed by at least one of a trained machine learning model or a natural language processing algorithm.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the trained machine learning model includes a logistic regression model, a neural network, or a random forest model.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the trained machine learning model includes a cox proportional hazards regression model.
4. The system of claim 1 , wherein the trained machine learning model applies a lasso regression analysis.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the medical record for the patient is received from a medical care provider, a laboratory, or an insurance company.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the structured information includes a gender, a birth date, a race, a weight, a lab result, a vital sign, a diagnosis date, a visit date, a medication order, a diagnosis code, a procedure code, a drug code, a prior therapy, or a medication administration.
7. The system of claim 1 , wherein the unstructured information includes text written by a health care provider, a radiology report, or a pathology report.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the performance status prediction comprises a survivability prediction for the patient.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the output indicative of the predicted performance status includes a time estimate of how long the patient is expected to survive.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the time estimate of how long the patient is expected to survive is relative to an initiation date of a therapy.
11. The system of claim 1 , wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to determine a suitability of including the patient in a clinical trial based on at least the output indicative of the predicted performance status.
12. The system of claim 1 1, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to provide an output indicative of the suitability of including the patient in the clinical trial.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the clinical trial involves treating the patient using a therapy.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the therapy is a cancer therapy.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to:
based on the analysis of at least one of the structured and unstructured information relative to the patient, generate a time estimate of expected improvement or worsening of the patient due to a disease.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the time estimate of expected improvement or worsening of the patient due to the disease is relative to an initiation date of a therapy.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to:
based on the analysis of at least one of the structured and unstructured information relative to the patient, generate a size estimate indicative of how much a tumor in the patient is predicted to shrink or grow over a predetermined time period after an initiation date of a therapy.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein the trained machine learning model is configured to:
access medical records for a plurality of patients;
select a first subset of the medical records;
analyze the first subset of the medical records to generate a predicted performance status of the patients in the first subset;
select a second subset of the medical records, wherein the second subset does not include the first subset;
analyze the second subset of the medical records to generate a predicted perfonnance status of the patients in the second subset; and
determine an accuracy level of the trained machine learning model based on the predicted
perfonnance status of the patients in the first subset and the predicted performance status of the patients in the second subset.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the medical records for the plurality of patients lack structured patient ECOG scores.
20. The system of claim 1 , wherein the natural language processing algorithm includes a logistic regression, a neural network, or a random forest algorithm.
21. The system of claim 1 , wherein the natural language processing algorithm includes a cox proportional hazards regression algorithm.
22. The system of claim 1 , wherein the natural language processing algorithm applies a lasso regression analysis.
23. A method for predicting a performance status of a patient, the method comprising:
accessing a database storing a medical record for the patient, the medical record including at least one of structured and unstructured information relative to the patient, wherein the medical record lacks a structured patient ECOG score;
analyzing at least one of the structured and unstructured information relative to the patient;
based on the analysis, and in the absence of a structured ECOG score, generating a performance status prediction for the patient; and
providing an output indicative of the predicted performance status of the patient,
wherein the analysis of at least one of the structured and unstructured information relative to the patient and the generation of the performance status prediction for the patient are performed by at least one of a trained machine learning model or a natural language processing algorithm.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the trained machine learning model includes a logistic regression model, a neural network, or a random forest model.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein the structured information includes a gender, a birth date, a race, a weight, a lab result, a vital sign, a diagnosis date, a visit date, a medication order, a diagnosis code, a procedure code, a drug code, a prior therapy, or a medication administration..
26. The method of claim 23, wherein the unstructured information includes text written by a health care provider, a radiology report, or a pathology report.
27. The method of claim 23, further comprising:
determining a suitability of including the patient in a clinical trial based on at least the output indicative of the predicted performance status.
28. The method of claim 23, further comprising:
based on the analysis of at least one of the structured and unstructured information relative to the patient, generating a time estimate of expected improvement or worsening of the patient due to a disease.
29. The method of claim 23, further comprising:
based on the analysis of at least one of the structured and unstructured information relative to the patient, generating a size estimate indicative of how much a tumor in the patient is predicted to shrink or grow over a predetennined time period after an initiation date of a therapy.
30. The method of claim 23, wherein generating the performance status prediction comprises generating a survivability prediction for the patient.
31. A system for providing a performance status score for a patient, the system comprising:
at least one processor programmed to:
access a database storing a medical record for the patient, the medical record including structured and unstructured information relative to the patient; identify, based on the medical record, a line of treatment associated with the patient, wherein the structured information lacks a performance status score for the patient associated with the line of treatment;
analyze the unstructured information to determine a performance status score for the patient associated with the line of treatment, wherein the performance status score is determined by at least one of a trained machine learning model or a natural language processing algorithm; and
provide an output indicative of the performance status score.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein the performance status score comprises an ECOG score.
33. The system of claim 31, wherein the analysis of the unstructured information is limited to unstructured information recorded within a predefined timeframe of a start date of the line of treatment.
</claims>
</document>
