<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RAYTHEON COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, PETER
SAND, MICHAEL J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70296018
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NEURAL NETWORK TRAINED BY HOMOGRAPHIC AUGMENTATION
</title>

<abstract>
A machine trains a first neural network using a first set of images. Training the first neural network comprises computing a first set of weights for a first set of neurons. The machine, for each of one or more alpha values in order from smallest to largest, trains an additional neural network using an additional set of images. The additional set of images comprises a homographic transformation of the first set of images. The homographic transformation is computed based on the alpha value. Training the additional neural network comprises computing an additional set of weights for an additional set of neurons. The additional set of weights is initialized based on a previously computed set of weights. The machine generates a trained ensemble neural network comprising the first neural network and one or more additional neural networks corresponding to the one or more alpha values.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A neural network apparatus, the apparatus comprising:
processing circuitry and memory; the processing circuitry to:
train a first neural network using a first set of images, wherein training the first neural network comprises computing a first set of weights for a first set of neurons;
for each of one or more alpha values in order from smallest to largest: train an additional neural network using an additional set of images, wherein the additional set of images comprises a homographic transformation of the first set of images, wherein the homographic transformation is computed based on the alpha value, wherein training the additional neural network comprises computing an additional set of weights for an additional set of neurons, wherein the additional set of weights is initialized based on a previously computed set of weights;
generate a trained ensemble neural network comprising the first neural network and one or more additional neural networks corresponding to the one or more alpha values; and
provide an output representing the trained ensemble neural network.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further to:
recognize, using the trained ensemble neural network, an object in a new image.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 , wherein the first set of images comprises two-dimensional images having an x-axis and a y-axis.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the homographic
transformation of the first set of images is computed according to:
Vnew Void T shifttyoid, ° , wherein. xoid and yoid are x and y coordinates of each comer of an image from the first set of images;
xnew and new are corresponding x and y coordinates of each comer of the homographic transformation of the image;
oc represents the alpha value; and
shifl represents a shifting function.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the shifting function is:
shift (xold oc) = oc * ¾ * (max
shift (yold oc) = oc * zy * (max wherein:
zx and zy are samples from a distribution between -1 and 1.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of the first neural network and the one or more additional neural networks corresponding to the one or more alpha values comprises: an input layer, one or more hidden layers, and an output layer, and wherein each of the input layer, the one or more hidden layers, and the output layer comprises neurons.
7. A neural network apparatus, the apparatus comprising:
processing circuitry and memory; the processing circuitry to:
recognize, using an ensemble neural network, an object in visual data, wherein the ensemble neural network comprises a first neural network and one or more additional neural networks corresponding to one or more alpha values; and
provide an output representing the recognized object in the visual data, wherein:
the first neural network is trained using a first set of images by computing a first set of weights for a first set of neurons; and
each of the one or more additional neural networks corresponding to the one or more alpha values is trained using an additional set of images, wherein the additional set of images comprises a homographic transformation of the first set of images, wherein the homographic transformation is computed based on the alpha value, wherein the additional neural network is trained by computing an additional set of weights for an additional set of neurons, wherein the additional set of weights is initialized based on a previously computed set of weights.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the one or more additional neural networks corresponding to the one or more alpha values are trained in order from smallest alpha value to largest alpha value.
9. A non-transitory machine-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by processing circuitry of one or more machines, cause the processing circuitry to:
train a first neural network using a first set of images, wherein training the first neural network comprises computing a first set of weights for a first set of neurons;
for each of one or more alpha values in order from smallest to largest: train an additional neural network using an additional set of images, wherein the additional set of images comprises a homographic transformation of the first set of images, wherein the homographic transformation is computed based on the alpha value, wherein training the additional neural network comprises computing an additional set of weights for an additional set of neurons, wherein the additional set of weights is initialized based on a previously computed set of weights;
generate a trained ensemble neural network comprising the first neural network and one or more additional neural networks corresponding to the one or more alpha values; and
provide an output representing the trained ensemble neural network.
10. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the processing circuitry is further to:
recognize, using the trained ensemble neural network, an object in a new image.
1 1. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the first set of images comprises two-dimensional images having an x-axis and a y-axis.
12. The machine-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the homographic transformation of the first set of images is computed according to: rein.
x0id and yoid are x and y coordinates of each comer of an image from the first set of images;
xnew and new are corresponding x and y coordinates of each comer of the homographic transformation of the image;
oc represents the alpha value; and
shifl represents a shifting function.
13. The machine-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the shifting function is:
shift (xold oc) = oc * ¾ * (max
shift (yold oc) = oc * zy * (max , wherein:
zx and zy are samples from a distribution between -1 and 1.
14. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein each of the first neural network and the one or more additional neural networks
corresponding to the one or more alpha values comprises: an input layer, one or more hidden layers, and an output layer, and wherein each of the input layer, the one or more hidden layers, and the output layer comprises neurons.
15. A neural network method comprising:
training a first neural network using a first set of images, wherein training the first neural network comprises computing a first set of weights for a first set of neurons;
for each of one or more alpha values in order from smallest to largest: training an additional neural network using an additional set of images, wherein the additional set of images comprises a homographic transformation of the first set of images, wherein the homographic transformation is computed based on the alpha value, wherein training the additional neural network comprises computing an additional set of weights for an additional set of neurons, wherein the additional set of weights is initialized based on a previously computed set of weights;
generating a trained ensemble neural network comprising the first neural network and one or more additional neural networks corresponding to the one or more alpha values; and
providing an output representing the trained ensemble neural network.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising:
recognizing, using the trained ensemble neural network, an object in a new image.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the first set of images comprises two-dimensional images having an x-axis and a y-axis.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the homographic transformation of the first set of images is computed according to: rein.
x0id and yoid are x and y coordinates of each comer of an image from the first set of images;
xnew and new are corresponding x and y coordinates of each comer of the homographic transformation of the image;
oc represents the alpha value; and
shifl represents a shifting function.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the shifting function is:
shift (xold oc) = oc * ¾ * (max
shift (yold oc) = oc * zy * (max , wherein:
zx and zy are samples from a distribution between -1 and 1.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein each of the first neural network and the one or more additional neural networks corresponding to the one or more alpha values comprises: an input layer, one or more hidden layers, and an output layer, and wherein each of the input layer, the one or more hidden layers, and the output layer comprises neurons.
</claims>
</document>
