<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B5/02,G06E3/00,G06F30/23,G06F30/27,G06N3/04,G06N3/067,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
X DEVELOPMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHUBERT, MARTIN
ADOLF, BRIAN
LU, JESSE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70476476
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NEURAL NETWORK INFERENCE WITHIN PHYSICAL DOMAIN VIA INVERSE DESIGN TOOL
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for revising structural parameters of a physical device is provided. The method comprises configuring a simulated environment to be representative of the physical device based on an initial description that describes structural parameters of the physical device. The method further includes performing an operational simulation of the physical device based on training data representative of physical stimuli within a physical domain to simulate an interaction between the physical device and the physical stimuli. The method further includes computing a loss value based on a simulated output of the physical device and performing and adjoint simulation by backpropagating the loss value through the simulated environment. The method also includes generating a revised description of the physical device by updating the structural parameters to reduce the loss value.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented method for revising structural parameters of a physical device under simulation, the method comprising:
configuring a simulated environment to be representative of the physical device based, at least in part, on an initial description of the physical device that describes the structural parameters of the physical device;
performing an operational simulation of the physical device within the simulated environment based on training data representative of physical stimuli within a physical domain, and wherein the operational simulation simulates an interaction between the physical device and the physical stimuli to determine a simulated output of the physical device in response to the physical stimuli;
computing a loss value based, at least in part, on the simulated output of the physical device;
performing an adjoint simulation by backpropagating the loss value through the simulated environment to determine an influence of changes in the structural parameters on the loss value; and
generating a revised description of the physical device by updating the structural parameters to reduce the loss value.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the physical domain includes at least one of an electromagnetic domain, an acoustic domain, a quantum domain, a capacitive domain, or a vibrational domain.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the interaction that is simulated corresponds to at least one of a perturbation, retransmission, attenuation, refraction, reflection, diffraction, or amplification of the physical stimuli within the physical domain.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the simulated environment includes an input region and an output region of the physical device, and wherein the operational simulation determines the simulated output based on a field response from the output region in response to the input region receiving the physical stimuli.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the structural parameters are updated such that the simulated output generated by the interaction between the physical device and the physical stimuli is analogous to a calculation being performed within the physical domain.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the calculation includes at least one of a tensor multiplication, tensor inversion, or convolution computation.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the training data includes a plurality of training datasets, each one of the training datasets including an input value and target output value, and wherein the input value is representative of at least one of the physical stimuli.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the loss value is based, at least in part, on a comparison between the simulated output of the physical device and the target output value of a corresponding one of the plurality of training datasets associated with the operational simulation.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, further comprising:
performing cycles, each cycle including performing the operational simulation, performing the adjoint simulation, and updating the structural parameters to reduce the loss value, and wherein the cycles iteratively reduce the loss value until the loss value substantially converges to within a threshold range.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising:
generating an optimized design of the physical device based on the structural parameters that have been updated upon completion of the cycles, and wherein the optimized design of the physical device substantially replicates an input/output relationship described by the training data within the physical domain.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising:
generating the training data based on inference calculations of a trained machine learning model that describes the input/output relationship.
12. At least one machine-accessible storage medium that provides instructions that, when executed by a machine, will cause the machine to perform operations comprising:
configuring a simulated environment to be representative of the physical device based, at least in part, on an initial description of the physical device that describes the structural parameters of the physical device;
performing an operational simulation of the physical device within the simulated environment based on training data representative of physical stimuli within a physical domain, and wherein the operational simulation simulates an interaction between the physical device and the physical stimuli to determine a simulated output of the physical device in response to the physical stimuli;
computing a loss value based, at least in part, on the simulated output of the physical device;
performing an adjoint simulation by backpropagating the loss value through the simulated environment to determine an influence of changes in the structural parameters on the loss value; and
generating a revised description of the physical device by updating the structural parameters to reduce the loss value.
13. The storage medium of claim 12, wherein the physical domain includes at least one of an electromagnetic domain, an acoustic domain, a quantum domain, a capacitive domain, or a vibrational domain.
14. The storage medium of claim 12, wherein the interaction that is simulated corresponds to at least one of a perturbation, retransmission, attenuation, refraction, reflection, diffraction, or amplification of the physical stimuli within the physical domain.
15. The storage medium of claim 12, wherein the simulated environment includes an input region and an output region of the physical device, and wherein the operational simulation determines the simulated output based on a field response from the output region in response to the input region receiving the physical stimuli.
16. The storage medium of claim 12, wherein the structural parameters are updated such that the simulated output generated by the interaction between the physical device and the physical stimuli is analogous to a calculation being performed within the physical domain.
17. The storage medium of claim 16, wherein the calculation includes at least one of a tensor multiplication, tensor inversion, or convolution computation.
18. The storage medium of claim 12, wherein the training data includes a plurality of training datasets, each one of the training datasets including an input value and target output value, and wherein the input value is representative of at least one of the physical stimuli.
19. The storage medium of claim 18, wherein the loss value is based, at least in part, on a comparison between the simulated output of the physical device and the target output value of a corresponding one of the plurality of training datasets associated with the operational simulation.
20. The storage medium of claim 17, providing additional instructions that, when executed by the machine, will cause the machine to perform further operations, comprising:
performing cycles, each cycle including performing the operational simulation, performing the adjoint simulation, and updating the structural parameters to reduce the loss value, and wherein the cycles iteratively reduce the loss value until the loss value substantially converges to within a threshold range.
21. The storage medium of claim 20, providing additional instructions that, when executed by the machine, will cause the machine to perform further operations, comprising:
generating an optimized design of the physical device based on the structural parameters that have been updated upon completion of the cycles, and wherein the optimized design of the physical device substantially replicates an input/output relationship described by the training data within the physical domain.
22. The storage medium of claim 21, providing additional instructions that, when executed by the machine, will cause the machine to perform further operations, comprising:
generating the training data based on inference calculations of a trained machine learning model that describes the input/output relationship.
23. A physical device to perform inference calculations within a physical domain, the physical device comprising:
an input region to receive a physical stimulus in a physical domain;
an output region to output a physical response in response to receiving the physical stimulus; and
a design region positioned proximate to the input region and the output region, wherein the design region is structured to interact with the physical stimulus to perform the inference calculation within the physical domain.
24. The physical device of claim 23, wherein material regions of the physical device are arranged within the design region such that a field response of the physical device changes in response to the physical stimulus, and wherein the changes correspond to a wave that is manipulated by the material regions to perform inference calculations as the wave propagates through the physical device.
25. The physical device of claim 24, wherein the physical response at the output region is a result of the inference calculations.
26. The physical device of claim 23, wherein the inference calculations correspond to at least one of a tensor multiplication, tensor inversion, or convolution computation.
27. The physical device of claim 23, wherein the physical domain includes at least one of an electromagnetic domain, an acoustic domain, a quantum domain, a capacitive domain, or a vibrational domain.
28. The physical device of claim 23, wherein the physical device replicates an input/output relationship of a machine learning model within the physical domain.
</claims>
</document>
