<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2458,G06F21/60,H04W12/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EUREKA ANALYTICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI, YING
LIM, ALOYSIUS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70330348
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MATHEMATICAL SUMMARIES OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS DATA FOR DATA ANALYTICS
</title>

<abstract>
Mathematical Summaries of Telecommunications Data for Data AnalyticsTelecommunications data may be summarized into mathematical statistics that may not correlate with conventional semantic attributes. Such statistics may be difficult to observe without access to the telecommunications data, and therefore may be much less susceptible to social engineering attacks or other privacy-related vulnerabilities. The mathematical statistics may represent first, second, or higher order behavior-related observations relating to subscribers physical movements, engagement of applications and web browsing on a mobile device, as well as usage and billing of a mobile device. The statistics may not correlate to semantic identifiers for subscribers, and therefore may be difficult to observe and therefore identify specific subscribers whose statistical summaries may be known.
</abstract>

<claims>
Mathematical Summaries of Telecommunications Data for Data Analytics
1. A system comprising:
at least one computer processor;
said at least one computer processor configured to perform a method comprising:
receiving telecommunications data comprising cellular tower logs, said cellular tower logs comprising a cell tower identifier, a subscriber identifier, and a timestamp;
for each of said subscriber identifier, generating a set of mathematically descriptive statistics, said set of mathematically descriptive statistics being semantic-free; storing said mathematically descriptive statistics in a telecom database;
receiving a first query against said telecom database and generating a first subset of said mathematically descriptive statistics; and
returning said first subset of said mathematically descriptive statistics in response to said query.
2. The system of claim 1 , said mathematically descriptive statistics being non-zero-order statistics derived from said telecommunications data.
3. The system of claim 2, said mathematically descriptive statistics comprising location-derived statistics.
4. The system of claim 3, said location-derived statistics comprising at least one of a group composed of: count of total locations;
distance traveled;
radius of gyration; and
location entropy.
5. The system of claim 2, said mathematically descriptive statistics comprising communication-derived statistics.
6. The system of claim 5, said communication-derived statistics comprising at least one of a group
composed of:
relationship of text communications with respect to voice communications;
relationship of incoming and outgoing communications;
mean of call duration; and
standard deviation of call duration.
7. The system of claim 2, said method further comprising:
determining that said first subset of said mathematically descriptive statistics is smaller than a predefined number of results;
creating a second subset of said mathematically descriptive statistics comprising said first subset of said mathematically descriptive statistics, said second subset having at least said predefined number of results; and
returning said second subset of said mathematically descriptive statistics.
8. The system of claim 7, said second subset of said mathematically descriptive statistics further
comprising fictitious results.
9. The system of claim 7, said second subset of said mathematically descriptive statistics further
comprising results from a broader query than said first query.
10. The system of claim 2, said first subset of mathematically descriptive statistics comprising anonymized subscriber identifiers.
11. A system comprising:
at least one computer processor;
said at least one computer processor configured to perform a method comprising:
identifying a first class of activities performed by a mobile device;
identifying a first plurality of activities within said first class of activities;
generating at least one summary statistic for said first plurality of activities, said summary statistic being semantic-free and at least a first order statistic; and
causing said at least one summary statistic to be stored in a database, said at least one summary statistic being associated with an anonymized identification associated with said mobile device.
12. The system of claim 11 , said at least one computer processor being located within said mobile device.
13. The system of claim 12, said mobile device having an application operable on said at least one
processor, said application being configured to perform said method.
14. The system of claim 12, said mobile device having an operating system-level function operable on said at least one processor, said operating system-level function being configured to perform said method.
15. The system of claim 12, said anonymized identification being determined by a second computer processor.
16. The system of claim 11 , said at least one computer processor being location outside said mobile device.
17. The system of claim 16, said method further comprising:
receiving a set of cell tower usage logs and deriving said at least one summary statistic from said set of cell tower usage logs.
18. The system of claim 17, said mathematically descriptive statistics comprising location-derived
statistics.
19. The system of claim 18, said location-derived statistics comprising at least one of a group composed of:
count of total locations;
distance traveled;
radius of gyration; and
location entropy.
20. The system of claim 16, said method further comprising:
receiving a set of call detail records and deriving said at least one summary statistic from said set of call detail records.
21. The system of claim 20, said mathematically descriptive statistics comprising communication-derived statistics.
22. The system of claim 21 , said communication-derived statistics comprising at least one of a group composed of:
relationship of text communications with respect to voice communications;
relationship of incoming and outgoing communications;
mean of call duration; and
standard deviation of call duration.
23. A system having at least one processor, said system being configured to execute a method on said at least one processor, said method comprising: receiving telecommunications data comprising cellular tower logs, said cellular tower logs comprising a cell tower identifier, a subscriber identifier, and a timestamp;
for each of said subscriber identifier, generating a set of mathematically descriptive locationderived statistics, said set of mathematically descriptive location-derived statistics being semantic-free and first order or greater statistics;
said telecommunications data further comprising call detail records, said call detail records
comprising an originating subscriber identifier, a receiving subscriber identifier, and a timestamp;
for each of said originating subscriber identifier and said receiving subscriber identifier, generating a set of mathematically descriptive communications-derived statistics, said set of mathematically descriptive communications-derived statistics being semantic-free and first order or greater statistics; and
storing said mathematically descriptive location-derived statistics and said mathematically
descriptive communications-derived statistics in a telecom database.
24. The system of claim 23, said method further comprising:
receiving a first query against said telecom database and generating a first subset of
mathematically descriptive statistics; and
returning said first subset of said mathematically descriptive statistics in response to said query.
25. The system of claim 23, said mathematically descriptive location-derived statistics being at least one of a group composed of:
radius of gyration; and
movement entropy.
26. The system of claim 25, said mathematically descriptive communication-derived statistics being at least one of a group composed of:
relationship of call versus text; and
entropy of communication.
27. The system of claim 23, said at least one summary statistic being normalized over a plurality of said mobile devices.
28. The system of claim 23, said method further comprising: receiving device usage data comprising app usage logs, said app usage logs comprising an app identifier, a usage measurement, and a timestamp, said app usage logs being associated with a subscriber identifier;
for each of said subscriber identifier, generating a list of mathematically descriptive device-usagederived statistics, said set of mathematically derived device-usage-derived statistics being semantic-fee and first-order or greater statistics.
29. The system of claim 23, said device-usage-derived statistics comprising at least one of a group
composed of:
count of distinct domains visited;
diversity of domains visited;
count of apps used;
diversity of apps used; and
app usage entropy.
30. The system of claim 29, said app usage entropy comprising app usage entropy for individual apps.
31. The system of claim 29, said app usage entropy comprising aggregated app usage entropy for a first set of apps.
32. The system of claim 31 , said first set of apps being a subset of apps available on said mobile device.
33. The system of claim 31 , said first set of apps being all apps available on said mobile device.
</claims>
</document>
