<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G16H50/20,G16H50/50,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BLACKTHORN THERAPEUTICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
AHAMMAD, PARVEZ
GAO, QINGZHU
GONZALEZ CABEZAS, HUMBERTO ANDRES
LIU, YUELU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70280308
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SCREENING, DIAGNOSING, AND STRATIFYING PATIENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A system for evaluating a patient for mental health issues includes a display device, a user interface, a memory, and a control system. The memory contains machine readable medium. The machine readable medium includes machine executable code storing instructions for performing a method. The control system is coupled to the memory, and includes one or more processors. The control system is configured to execute the machine executable code to cause the control system to display, on the display device, a series of questions from mental health questionnaires. The series of questions includes text and answers for each question. From the user interface, a selection of answers of each of the displayed series of questions is received from a patient. Using a Bayesian Decision List, the received selection of answers is processed to output an indication of mental health of the patient.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for evaluating a patient for mental health issues, the system comprising: a display device;
a user interface;
a memory containing machine readable medium comprising machine executable code having stored thereon instructions for performing a method; and a control system coupled to the memory comprising one or more processors, the control system configured to execute the machine executable code to cause the control system to:
display, on the display device, a series of questions from mental health questionnaires comprising text and answers for each question; receive, from the user interface, a selection of answers from a patient of each of the displayed series of questions; and
process, using a Bayesian Decision List, the received selection of answers to output an indication of mental health of the patient.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the indication of mental health comprises whether the patient has bi-polar disorder, ADHD, schizophrenia, or any combination thereof.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the indication of mental health comprises determining whether the patient has a mental disorder.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the indication of mental health comprises identifying at least two mental health conditions based at least in part on determining that the patient exceeds a threshold probability of having each of the at least two health conditions.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the indication of mental health comprises whether the patient has OCD, PTSD, autism, or any combination thereof.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the indication of mental health identifies a drug to which the patient is a higher responder.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the Bayesian Decision List is generated by: receiving labeled training data comprising data for a plurality of individuals, the labeled training data including category labels indicative of whether each of the plurality of individuals has one or more mental health disorders, the labeled training data comprising a plurality of attributes;
based at least in part on the received labeled training data, generating a plurality of rules predicting a category label associated with a set of attributes; calculating a score for each of the generated plurality of rules, the score being representative of a capacity to predict the category label;
eliminating one or more rules of the generated plurality of rules based at in part on a threshold capacity to predict the category label; and
generating a Bayesian Decision List designed to predict the category label using the rules that are not eliminated from the plurality of rules.
8. A system for evaluating a patient for mental health issues, the system comprising: a display device;
a user interface;
a memory containing machine readable medium comprising machine executable code having stored thereon instructions for performing a method; and a control system coupled to the memory comprising one or more processors, the control system configured to execute the machine executable code to cause the control system to:
display, on the display device, a series of questions from mental health questionnaires comprising text and answers for each question; receive, from the user interface, a selection of answers from a patient of each of the displayed series of questions;
receive, from a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) device, a set of MRI data associated with a brain of the patient;
process the received set of MRI data to output a set of MRI features; and
process, using a Bayesian Decision List, the received selection of answers and the set of MRI features to output an indication of mental health of the patient.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the indication of mental health comprises whether the patient has bi-polar disorder, ADHD, schizophrenia, or any combination thereof.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the indication of mental health comprises determining whether the patient has a mental disorder.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the indication of mental health comprises identifying at least two mental health conditions based at least in part on determining that the patient exceeds a threshold probability of having each of the at least two health conditions.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the indication of mental health comprises whether the patient has OCD, PTSD, autism, or any combination thereof.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the received MRI data is resting-state functional MRI data, structural MRI data, or both.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the indication of mental health identifies a drug to which the patient would likely be a higher responder.
15. The system of claim 8, wherein the Bayesian Decision List is generated by:
receiving labeled training data comprising data for a plurality of individuals, the labeled training data including category labels indicative of whether each of the plurality of individuals has one or more mental health disorders, the labeled training data comprising a plurality of attributes;
based at least in part on the received labeled training data, generating a plurality of rules predicting a category label associated with a set of attributes;
calculating a score for each of the generated plurality of rules, the score being representative of a capacity to predict the category label;
eliminating one or more rules of the generated plurality of rules based at least in part on a threshold capacity to predict the category label; and
generating a Bayesian Decision List designed to predict the category label using the rules that are not eliminated from the plurality of rules.
16. A system for evaluating a patient for mental health issues, the system comprising: a display device;
a user interface;
a memory containing machine readable medium comprising machine executable code having stored thereon instructions for performing a method; and a control system coupled to the memory comprising one or more processors, the control system configured to execute the machine executable code to cause the control system to:
display, on the display device, a series of questions from mental health questionnaires comprising text and answers for each question; receive, from the user interface, a selection of answers from a patient of each of the displayed series of questions;
display, on the display device, a series of images;
receive, from the user interface, a selected response from the patient for each of the displayed series of images to output a set of selected responses; and
process, using a model, the received selection of answers and the set of selected responses to output an indication of mental health of the patient.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the model is a Bayesian Decision List.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the Bayesian Decision List is generated based at least in part on features identified using forward selection.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the model is a linear regression model.
20. The system of claim 16, wherein the model is a logistical regression model.
21. The system of claim 16, wherein the model is a machine learning model.
22. The system of claim 16, wherein the model comprises a machine learning model and a set of features, the set of features being determined using forward selection.
23. The system of claim 16, wherein each of the displayed series of images comprises a face with a predetermined emotional expression, and wherein the selected response for each of the displayed series of images corresponds to an emotion selected by the patient.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the emotion is anger.
25. The system of claim 16, wherein the selected response for each of the displayed series of images comprises a patient identification of the image.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the selected response for each of the displayed series of images further comprises whether the selected image illustrates a long or short mouth.
27. The system of claim 16, wherein the indication of mental health comprises whether the patient has bi-polar disorder, ADHD, schizophrenia, or any combination thereof.
28. The system of claim 16, wherein the indication of mental health comprises determining whether the patient has a mental disorder.
29. The system of claim 16, wherein the indication of mental health comprises identifying at least two mental health conditions the patient has a threshold probability of having.
30. The system of claim 16, wherein the indication of mental health comprises whether the patient has OCD, PTSD, autism, or any combination thereof.
31. The system of claim 16, wherein the indication of mental health identifies a drug to which the patient would likely be a higher responder.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein the drug is BTRX-246040.
33. The system of claim 31, wherein the drug is a nociceptin receptor antagonist (NOP A).
34. The system of claim 31, wherein the drug is CERC-501.
35. The system of claim 31, wherein the drug is a kappa opioid receptor antagonist (KORA).
36. The system of claim 16, wherein the indication of mental health comprises whether the patient will respond to a placebo.
37. A system for evaluating a patient for mental health issues, the system comprising: a display device;
a user interface;
a memory containing machine readable medium comprising machine executable code having stored thereon instructions for performing a method; and a control system coupled to the memory comprising one or more processors, the control system configured to execute the machine executable code to cause the control system to:
display, on the display device, a series of questions from mental health questionnaires comprising text and answers for each question; receive, from the user interface, a selection of answers from a patient of each of the displayed series of questions;
display, on the display device, instructions for the patient to perform a goal series of user interface inputs;
receive, from the user interface, an actual series of user interface inputs;
process, using a model, the received selection of answers and the received actual series of user interface inputs to output an indication of mental health of the patient.
38. The system of claim 37, wherein the model is a Bayesian Decision List.
39. The system of claim 38, wherein the Bayesian Decision List is generated based at least in part on features identified using forward selection.
40. The system of claim 37, wherein the model is a linear regression model.
41. The system of claim 37, wherein the model is a logistical regression model.
42. The system of claim 37, wherein the model is a machine learning model.
43. The system of claim 37, wherein the model comprises a machine learning model and a set of features, the set of features being determined using forward selection with a logistical regression model using elastic net regularization.
44. The system of claim 37, wherein the goal series of user interface inputs comprises a series of mouse clicks within a time frame.
45. The system of claim 37, wherein the goal series of user interface inputs comprises touching a position on a screen of the user interface where a graphic icon is previously displayed.
46. The system of claim 40, wherein the machine learning model is generated by:
receiving labeled training data comprising data for a plurality of individuals;
generating a plurality of features based at least in part on the received labeled training data;
training an initial machine learning model in a supervised manner based at least in part on the generated plurality of features;
extracting importance measures for each of the generated plurality features based at least in part on the training of the initial machine learning model; generating a plurality of subset machine learning models based at least in part on the extracted importance measures for each of the plurality of features;
evaluating a classification performance of the generated plurality of subset machine learning models; and
selecting at least one of the subset machine learning models as the model.
47. A method of building a rule list for data sets with a large total number of categories among many attributes for machine learning models, the method comprising:
obtaining, by a computer, a data set comprising a plurality of attribute statements for a plurality of label categories; generating a data table of attribute statements and label categories, each element of the data table being representative of a corresponding combination of an attribute statement of the obtained plurality of attribute statements and a label category of the obtained plurality of label categories;
calculating, by the computer, a score for each element of the generated data table; for each subset of the generated data table associated with a first target label category: determining whether a first calculated score for a first element of the subset exceeds a first user-defined threshold, and whether support for a corresponding attribute statement associated with the first element exceeds a second user-defined threshold;
responsive to determining that (i) the first calculated score for the first element exceeds the first user-defined threshold and that (ii) support for the attribute statement associated with the first element exceeds the second user-defined threshold, updating a rule set for the target label category; updating the first user-defined threshold to a maximum score in the rule set for the target label category;
setting, by the computer, a new rule as a target rule associated with a next element of the subset;
updating, by the computer, the rule set for the target label category to include the new rule responsive to a determination that (i) a second calculated score between the new rule and the target label category exceeds the updated first user-defined threshold and that (ii) support for the new rule is greater than the second user-defined threshold; and
updating, by the computer, the rule set associated with the data set for a top threshold number of rules sorted by score.
48. A computing system comprising:
one or more databases storing clinical scale data;
a memory storing computer instructions; and
a processor configured to execute the stored computer instructions to:
obtain a data set comprising a plurality of attribute statements for a plurality of label categories;
generate a data table of attribute statements and label categories, each element of the data table being representative of a corresponding combination of an attribute statement of the obtained plurality of attribute statements and a label category of the obtained plurality of label categories;
calculate a score for each element of the generated data table; and for each target label category in the plurality of categories:
for each target attribute statement of the plurality of attribute statements, update a rule set for the target category to include the target attribute statement, responsive to a determination that
(i) the calculated score for the element associated with the target attribute statement is greater than a first user-defined threshold and (ii) support for the target attribute statement is greater than a second user-defined threshold, wherein the rule set for the target category comprises a plurality of rules;
for each target rule of the plurality of rules in the rule set, update the first user-defined threshold to a maximum score in the rule set for the target category;
for each target attribute statement of the plurality of attribute statements, set a new rule as the target rule with the target attribute statement, and update the rule set for the target category to include the new rule responsive to a determination that (i) a new score between the new rule and the target category is above the updated first user-defined threshold and
(ii) support for the new rule is greater than the second userdefined threshold; and
update the rule set associated with the data set for a top threshold number of rules sorted by score.
49. A system for evaluating a patient for mental health issues, the system comprising: a display device;
a user interface comprising a speaker and a microphone;
a memory containing machine readable medium comprising machine executable code having stored thereon instructions for performing a method; and a control system coupled to the memory comprising one or more processors, the control system configured to execute the machine executable code to cause the control system to:
output, through the speaker, a series of questions from mental health questionnaires comprising in an audio format;
receive, from the microphone, an audio recording of a patient's selection of answers of each of the series of questions; and process, using a Bayesian Decision List, the patient's selection of answers to output an indication of mental health of the patient.
50. A system for screening the mental health of patients, the system comprising:
a display;
a microphone;
a camera positioned to capture an image in front of the display and configured to output video data;
a user interface;
a memory containing machine readable medium comprising machine executable code having stored thereon instructions for performing a method of evaluating the mental health of a user; and
a control system coupled to the memory comprising one or more processors, the control system configured to execute the machine executable code to cause the control system to:
execute a test application, by the control system, upon receiving, from the user interface, an indication to initiate a test; and
terminate the test application upon receiving, by the control system, an indication to stop the test;
wherein the test application comprises:
displaying, on the display, a series of questions from mental health questionnaires comprising text and answers for each question;
displaying, on the display, live video data recorded by the camera;
recording, by the camera, a set of test video data;
recording, by the microphone, a set of test audio data; receiving, though the user interface, an answer for each of the series of questions to yield a selection of answers; and processing, using a Bayesian Decision List, the selection of answers, the set of test video data, and the set of audio data to output a mental health indication of the user.
51. A system for screening the mental health of patients, the system comprising:
a microphone;
a speaker;
a memory containing machine readable medium comprising machine executable code having stored thereon instructions for performing a method of evaluating the mental health of a user; and
a control system coupled to the memory comprising one or more processors, the control system configured to execute the machine executable code to cause the control system to:
execute a test application, by the control system, upon receiving, from the user interface, an indication to initiate a test; and
terminate the test application upon receiving, by the control system, an indication to stop the test;
wherein the test application comprises:
outputting, through the speaker, a series of questions comprising audio data;
recording, by the microphone, a set of test audio data; and processing, using a Bayesian Decision List, the set of audio data to output a mental health indication of the user.
52. The system of claim 51, wherein the set of test audio data comprises an audio recording of the patient reciting a statement provided to the patient.
53. The system of claim 51, wherein the set of test audio data comprises answers to a set of questions from mental health questionnaires.
54. The system of claim 51, wherein the series of questions comprises a request for the patient to recite a statement.
55. The system of claim 51, wherein the series of questions comprises open ended questions.
56. The system of claim 51, wherein processing the set of audio data comprises identifying at least one of the following audio features: local features, global waveform level features, phoneme rate, demographics, duration, speaking ratio, voice ratio, prosodic features, glottal and spectral features.
57. The system of claim 51, wherein processing the set of audio data comprises identifying features from the patient's voice extracted from the set of audio data or identifying text features from the words extracted from the set of audio data.
</claims>
</document>
